LINCOLN COUNTY, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 3.28.23, passed 3-28-2023; and
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2022
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Lincoln County Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may
be substituted. Title heads, chapter heads and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross-references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CATTLE. Includes horse, mule, ass, cow, ox, sheep, hog or goat of any age or
sex.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(11)
   COUNTY. Lincoln County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The County Fiscal Court.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The County Fiscal Court.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A member of the Fiscal Court.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
County Fiscal Court.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of County Fiscal Court in
enacting any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held
unconstitutional the remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the
ordinance provides otherwise, or unless the remaining parts are so essentially
and inseparably connected with and dependent upon the unconstitutional part
that it is apparent that County Fiscal Court would not have enacted the
remaining parts without the unconstitutional part; or unless the remaining
parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the intent of County Fiscal Court.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of County Fiscal Court.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of County Fiscal Court as long as it takes effect prior to
the effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
County Fiscal Court which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of County Fiscal Court, as long
as the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of County Fiscal Court repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment, as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to
any offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings.
   (B)   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision
of the new ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected,
be applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the County
Fiscal Court, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   Any chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may
be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent
ordinances as printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the
subsequent ordinances until County Fiscal Court shall adopt a new code of
ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory references:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
33.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
35.   TAX, FEES AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   County Judge/Executive, continuity of government
   
30.02   Magisterial districts
   
30.03   911 dispatch
   
30.04   Smoking in County Courthouse
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 COUNTY JUDGE/EXECUTIVE, CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT.
   When the absence or disability of County Judge/Executive shall prevent his
or her serving in the office during a national state or local emergency, the
duties and responsibilities of the County Judge/Executive shall be administered
temporarily by the Deputy County Judge/Executive as set forth in KRS 67.730 and
67.735. It is also ordained that if neither the County Judge/Executive nor the
Deputy County Judge/Executive is able to serve in the Office of Judge/Executive
by reason of absence or disability, then the duties of the Office of Judge/
Executive shall be assumed temporarily by a member of the County Fiscal Court
as set forth in KRS 67.740 and 67.745.
(Ord. 01-01.25.11, passed 1-25-2011)
§ 30.02 MAGISTERIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The four magisterial districts are established as follows.
 
District Number of People
1        6,276
2        5,987
3        6,281
4        6,198
 
   (B)   The County Fiscal Court met in regular session on September 13, 2011,
and received this recommendation of the Reapportionment Commissioners.
   (C)   The County Fiscal Court determined that the recommended
reapportionment would be beneficial to the county and therefore accepted and
approved the recommendation of the Reapportionment Commissioners.
   (D)   The County Fiscal Court hereby adopts the report of reapportionment as
set forth above which was submitted and recommended by the Commissioners.
(Ord. 5-10.10.11, passed 10-10-2010)
§ 30.03 911 DISPATCH.
   (A)   Any and all previous ordinances of County Fiscal Court regarding
established of a 911 Board or dispatch center are hereby rescinded, except to
the extent they impose fees for purposes of funding this type of service.
   (B)   The agreement between the County Fiscal Court and Garrard Fiscal Court
is hereby adopted, ratified and approved. A copy of said agreement is attached
to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein.
   (C)   The County Judge/Executive is hereby granted the authority to enter
into and execute said agreement on behalf of the County Fiscal Court.
(Ord. 10-9-07, passed 10-9-2007)
§ 30.04 SMOKING IN COUNTY COURTHOUSE.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, holding or carrying any lighter
pipe, cigar, cigarette or other lighted tobacco product in any manner or form.
   (B)   Prohibiting of smoking. Smoking shall be prohibited within the County
Courthouse, the Arch “Buzz Walker” Building, and the County Judicial Center,
the KU Annex and the Planning and Zoning/Building Inspector’s office, including
all levels, sections, rooms, hallways, corridors and any other areas located
within the courthouse; and this prohibition of smoking shall be effective
during all hours of the day, including regular and after business hours.
   (C)   Reasonable distance. Smoking is permitted within a reasonable distance
outside the County Courthouse, the Arch “Buzz Walker” Building and the County
Judicial Center, the KU Annex and the Planning and Zoning/Building Inspector’s
office, provided tobacco smoke does not enter through entrances, windows,
ventilation systems or other means.
   (D)   Posting of signs. Signs providing notice to employees and the public
at large that smoking is prohibited on the premises shall be posted at each
entrance to the County Courthouse, the Arch “Buzz Walker” Building and the
County Judicial Center, the KU Annex, and the Planning and Zoning/Building
Inspector’s office; and, notwithstanding the provision of this section, smoking
is prohibited in the County Courthouse, the Arch “Buzz Walker” Building and the
County Judicial Center, the KU Annex, and the Planning and Zoning/Building
Inspector’s office, whether posted or not. Further, all ashtrays shall be
removed from all areas in the County Courthouse, the Arch “Buzz Walker”
Building, and the County Judicial Center, the KU Annex and the Planning and
Zoning/Building Inspector’s office.
   (E)   Non-retaliation; non-waiver of rights. No administrator, supervisor or
official of the County Fiscal Court or county government shall discharge,
refuse to hire or retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment,
citizen or any other person who exercises any rights offered by this section or
reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this section and, an employee,
citizen or other person who enters the County Courthouse, the Arch “Buzz
Walker” Building, and the County Judicial Center, the KU Annex, and the
Planning and Zoning/Building Inspector’s office, where smoking is prohibited,
does not surrender his or her rights as a nonsmoker and retains the right to
file a complaint in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section.
   (F)   Liberal construction. This section shall be liberally construed so as
to effectuate and further its purposes.
(Ord. 03-13-07, passed 3-13-2007) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Section
30.04 shall be enforced in the District Court of the county; and any person who
violates any provision of §
30.04 may be found guilty of a violation punishable by a fine of not more than
$25. Further, each day a violation of §
30.04 occurs shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 03-13-07, passed 3-13-2007)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Industrial Development Authority
   
31.02   Emergency Communications Commission
   
31.03   Joint Planning Commission
   
31.04   County Tourism Board/Main Street Program
   
31.05   Watershed Planning Unit
§ 31.01 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Local Industrial Development Authority for
the City of Stanford and the county to be known as the “County Industrial
Development Authority.”
   (B)   The Authority shall be constituted and shall operate in accordance
with, and shall have all of the powers and functions provided by KRS 154.50-301
through 154.50-310, and other statutes or amendments thereto as may hereafter
be enacted by the legislature of the commonwealth relating to such a local
development authority.
(2001 Code, § 33.01) (Ord. passed 5-3-1979)
§ 31.02 EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION.
   (A)   The purpose of the Emergency Communications Commission is to own,
administer, staff, operate and fund an Emergency Communication Center and
Public Response System (E-911) for the citizens of the county. This shall
include the telephones, radios and other communication systems used by the fire
departments, law enforcement agencies, emergency medical services, rescue
squads, disaster emergency services and other emergency agencies within the
county. The Commission shall adhere to all federal state, local and Association
of Public Communications Officers, Inc., (APCO) rules, regulations and
standards governing the administration and operation of communication systems,
such as described in this section.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission shall consist of three members, each having
three-year terms. Any member shall only serve two consecutive terms or a total
of not more than six years consecutively. No member of this Commission shall
hold an elected office in any city of the county or of the county itself.
      (2)   The membership of the new Emergency Communications Commission shall
be comprised by three members, who shall be the County Sheriff, the County
Attorney and the Director of the County 911/Chief Dispatcher. These
Commissioners shall receive no financial remuneration for their services on
said Commission.
      (3)   Any member of this Commission that fails to attend two or more of
the Commission’s monthly meetings, without just cause, may be replaced by the
entity that selected that member.
   (C)   The funding of this Commission and its purpose shall be provided for
as outlined in the Commission’s annual budget as submitted to the Fiscal Court
for approval. This annual budget shall be submitted to the Fiscal Court and the
County Treasurer no later than March 1 prior to the upcoming fiscal year. A
copy of this proposed budget shall also be submitted to the County Fire Board,
the County Rescue Board, the County Sheriff, the Mayor of the City of Stanford,
the Mayor of the City of Hustonville and the Mayor of the City of Crab Orchard.
These copies are for information only and do not require any action by these
parties.
   (D)   Any funds that are spent by, received by, transferred into or out of
the control of this Commission shall require a complete annual accounting
performed by a certified public accountant that has prior approval of the
Fiscal Court. The payment of this annual accounting report shall be from the
Commission’s current funds. A copy of this annual accounting report shall be
attached to the Commission’s annual proposed budget as indicated in division
(C) above.
   (E)   The Commission shall own, hold title to, obtain and hold license for
and maintain an inventory of all emergency communications equipment of and for
the county. The titles, licenses and inventories of this equipment shall be
subject to review, at any time, by proper federal, state and local agencies,
thus the Commission shall maintain these in proper order at all times. The
equipment included in these properties are those of the County Fire Department,
the County Rescue Squad, the County Sheriff’s Department and the Emergency
Communications Center. The equipment of the three municipalities shall remain
with those municipalities.
   (F)   The Commission members shall prepare the procedures for the
administration of the purposes of this Commission. These administrative
procedures shall be prepared prior to the Commission receiving and/or spending
any funds. These procedures shall be maintained in a timely order and shall be
available for public review at any time with a prior written request.
   (G)   The Commission, as directed in the Commission’s administrative
procedures, shall secure a Chief Dispatcher for the daily operation of the
Commission’s business and purpose. The requirements for the position of Chief
Dispatcher shall be set forth in the Commission’s administrative procedures and
shall meet the standards of the Association of Public Communication Officers,
Inc. (APCO). The compensation of this Chief Dispatcher shall be set by the
Commission at the time of hiring this position. The Chief Dispatcher shall then
have the responsibility of staffing, with the approval of the Commission, and
operating the Emergency Communication Center. He or she shall also have the
responsibility of adhering to the procedures of the Commission, and maintaining
all the records and reports of the Commission. This position shall be
responsible to the Commission procedures, all federal, state and local laws
governing the operation of a center and equipment therein.
(2001 Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 162, passed 10-8-1991; Ord. passed 5-11-2007)
§ 31.03 JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Name. The title of said Planning Commission shall be the Planning
Commission of the county.
   (B)   Membership. The Planning Commission of the county shall be composed of
the following:
      (1)   One member to be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Crab
Orchard, with the approval of the City Commission of the City of Crab Orchard;
not less than two of whom shall be citizen members;
      (2)   Six members to be appointed by the Judge/Executive of the county,
with the approval of the Fiscal Court of the county, no less than three of whom
shall be citizen members;
      (3)   The terms of each member, who is appointed because of his or her
official connection with his or her appointing body shall, for his or her
respective official tenure, and of the citizen members shall be four years and
until their successors take office; except that the original terms of the
citizen members shall be four years respectively for those citizen members
appointed by the Mayor of the City of Crab Orchard and two and three years
respectively for the citizen members appointed by the county; and
      (4)   One of the members appointed by the county shall reside within the
boundaries of the Cedar Creek Watershed.
   (C)   Organization. The Commission shall elect, from among the citizens
members, a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer and any other
officers which it deems necessary. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice
Chairperson shall act and shall have all the powers and duties of the
Chairperson. The terms of the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson shall be each
for one year and the terms of the Secretary and Treasurer shall each be for one
year. The Commission shall conduct regular meetings as it deems necessary for
the transaction of its business; but there shall be at least six regular
meetings annually. The Commission shall adopt by-laws for the transaction of
business, and shall keep minutes and records of all proceeding, including
regulations, transactions, findings, determinations, and the number of votes
for and against each question, and if any member is absent or disqualified from
voting indicating the fact, all of which shall immediately after adoption be
filed in the office of the Commission, and shall be public record. Both the ex-
officio members and the citizen members, except the Chairperson, shall be
entitled to vote upon any subject or matter before the Commission and 50% of
the members including the Chairperson or acting Chairperson shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of any business, however, approval of any ordinance,
regulation of order shall be made only by a majority vote of the entire
Commission. In case of a tie vote or a deadlock, the Chairperson shall have the
power to vote, shall cast his or her vote and break such tie vote or deadlock.
   (D)   Powers, duties and responsibility. From and after the time when the
Planning Commission of the county shall have been organized and selected its
officers, together with the adoption of its rules of procedure and by-laws,
said Commission shall have the powers, duties and responsibilities to uphold
the KRS 100.111 through 100.181 inclusive.
   (E)   Finances.
      (1)   The actual and necessary expenses of operation of this Commission
shall be borne by the parties hereto as follows:
         (a)   City of Crab Orchard: 0%; and
         (b)   The county: 100%.
      (2)   The fiscal year of the Planning Commission of the county shall be
from July 1 to June 30.
      (3)   Quarterly, the Planning Commission of the county shall submit to
the parties hereto a statement of its anticipated expenses for the ensuing
quarter and the parties hereto shall immediately forward their portion thereof
to the Treasurer of the Planning Commission of the county, taking credit for
any sums previously deposited with the Commission or paid its behalf.
      (4)   Each party hereto shall be responsible for and shall pay any and
all expenses for boards that they set up within their jurisdiction, including,
but not limited to, boards of adjustment.
   (F)   Transfer of records. All minutes, records, contracts or property of
any previous Planning Commission established by the parties hereto or any of
them are hereby assigned, transferred and set over to the Planning Commission
of the county.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2005)
§ 31.04 COUNTY TOURISM BOARD/MAIN STREET PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Stanford-Lincoln County Tourism Board is hereby created. Said
Board shall be comprised of five members. Two members shall be appointed by the
County Judge/Executive with the consent of the County Fiscal Court. Two members
shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Stanford with the consent of the
Stanford City Council. The Director of the Board established by this section
shall be a member of the Board hereby established, but shall only vote in
matters in which there is a tie vote.
      (1)   The Board members shall serve terms of three years; however, from
the initial Board members, two shall be chosen by a random method to serve a
two-year term, one each from the city’s appointments and the county’s
appointments.
      (2)   The Board shall be responsible for the adoption of by-laws
governing the day to day operations of the Board. The by-laws shall also
include a job description for the Director, and shall include a statement
concerning whether the Director is subject to the county’s or the city’s
personnel policy.
   (B)   The Board shall designate a financial institution for depositing of
all monies which shall come into the possession of the Board, and all expenses
or disbursements by the Board shall be made by commercial instrument drawn on
accounts at said financial institution.
      (1)   The Board shall submit to the Stanford City Council and the County
Fiscal Court financial statements detailing all income and disbursements of the
Board funds not less than quarterly. All financial information shall be
submitted to the governing bodies upon request of either body, but not less
quarterly, and such requests by the governing bodies may not be made more often
than monthly.
      (2)   The Board shall submit a yearly budget to the governing bodies not
later than June 1 of each year. The budget shall detail expected income and
expenditures of the Board for the fiscal year.
      (3)   From the members of the Board, two persons shall be designated to
execute and sign checks, and the Director shall also be designated to sign
checks. All checks shall require signatures of two of the three persons so
designated. All checks received by the Board for payment of any amount owed to
the Board shall be marked on the back as “For Deposit Only,” and shall be
deposited into an account maintained by and in the name of the Board.
   (C)   The joint Stanford-Lincoln County Tourism Board/Main Street Program
shall be funded by the County Fiscal Court and the Stanford City Council.
      (1)   Each governmental entity shall be responsible for $25,000 of
funding in each fiscal year. These funds shall be deposited by the contributing
entity into the Board’s General Fund Account, with each entity depositing one-
half of its required contribution on or before January 10 of each year and one-
half of its required contribution on or before July 10 of each year.
      (2)   In the event either governmental entity adopts a tax specifically
for the purpose of funding tourism activities, the amount of revenue generated
by such tax and deposited into an account of the Board herein established shall
be credited against the contributions required from the governmental entity;
however, said amounts shall only be credited for the year in which they are
actually collected and deposited into the Board’s account.
   (D)   The Director of the Stanford-Lincoln County Tourism Board/Main Street
Program shall receive compensation at a rate determined by joint consent of the
County Fiscal Court and the Stanford City Council. Once the initial salary is
determined, it may only be changed or modified by consent of the governing
bodies. The County Fiscal Court and the Stanford City Council shall also
determine what benefits will be included as part of the compensation package
for the Director; however, the governing bodies may adopt resolutions allowing
for yearly increases for cost of living and allow for such increases to be
continuing without the need for yearly consent for such modification.
      (1)   The Judge/Executive of the county and the Mayor of the City of
Stanford, Kentucky shall be responsible for the hiring of the Director. They
shall report to the Fiscal Court and the City Council, respectively, as to the
name of the person which will fill the position of Director.
      (2)   The Judge/Executive and the Mayor may designate a Screening
Committee to assist in the process of finding a director, and the persons
appointed to such a Committee shall be at the discretion of the Judge/Executive
and Mayor.
      (3)   In the event the Judge/Executive and the Mayor are unable to agree
on a person to fill the position of Director, and the position remains unfilled
for a period of 60 days, then each shall submit the names of two persons for
the position to the Board, who shall then have the power to choose a
replacement.
   (E)   Each of the governmental entities shall have the power to withdraw
from this venture by repealing their ordinance establishing same; however,
there shall be no refund of any funds which have been paid, and the withdrawing
entity shall be legally obligated to contribute all funds due under this
agreement which are in arrears.
   (F)   This section shall have no force or effect until it has been adopted
by both the County Fiscal Court and the Stanford City Council. If either of
these entities fails to adopt this section, or an ordinance that is
substantially the same, with only changes to names necessary for clarity based
upon the adopting agency, then there shall be no Board created as set forth
herein.
   (G)   In the event this section is adopted by one of the governmental
entities, and the other fails to adopt such an ordinance within 60 days of
adoption by the first, then subsequent adoption by the second entity shall not
result in this section becoming effective until such time as the first entity
passes a resolution making same effective.
(Ord. 02-12.29.09, passed 12-29-2009)
§ 31.05 WATERSHED PLANNING UNIT.
   (A)   The County Fiscal Court adopted an ordinance establishing the Cedar
Creek Watershed Planning Unit.
   (B)   This was done pursuant to KRS Chapter 100 and a directive from the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to protect the water quality of Cedar Creek Lake.
   (C)   The Cedar Creek Watershed Planning Commission was established to carry
out the requirements of KRS Chapter 100 planning and zoning statutes and
drafted and adopted a Comprehensive Plan, subdivision regulations and zoning
ordinance and is charged with enforcement of these regulations for the Cedar
Creek Watershed Planning Unit pursuant to KRS Chapter 100.
   (D)   The County Fiscal Court adopted the goals and objectives of the Cedar
Creek Watershed Comprehensive Plan and zoning ordinance as required by KRS
Chapter 100.
   (E)   The County Fiscal Court has established a Planning Commission to
address the needs of all unincorporated areas of the county in regards to
planning for future growth and land use of the county and to improve the way of
life, and protect the county’s natural resources.
   (F)   The County Planning Commission includes members of the Cedar Creek
Watershed Planning Commission.
   (G)   There exists the possibility of duplication of services and of
conflicting and contradictory decisions regarding the property growth of areas
of the county, including those that could impact the Cedar Creek Lake
Watershed.
   (H)   The County Fiscal Court desires a uniform and consistent approach to
issues involving the proper growth of this county and in the protection of the
way of life and natural resources and beauty of this county.
   (I)   The merger and combining of the Cedar Creek Watershed Planning
Commission and the County Planning Commission will better serve the citizens of
the county.
   (J)   There exists a duplication of services and duties of the Cedar Creek
Watershed Planning Commission and the County Planning Commission.
   (K)   To promote an orderly and consistent system of planning and zoning
throughout the county, and to avoid duplication, contradiction and conflicting
decisions on the property growth of the county.
   (L)   All legal requirements have been met, be it hereby ordained that the
Cedar Creek Watershed Planning Commission and the County Planning Commission
are hereby merged, and combined into one body, being the County/Cedar Creek
Planning Commission, and further that all duties, powers, obligations and
responsibilities of the Cedar Creek Watershed Planning Commission are hereby
granted and assigned to the County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission.
   (M)   This section shall not be taken or interpreted in any manner to
revoke, waive or supplant any previous ordinance or resolution regarding
planning and zoning or any regulations adopted pursuant thereto. The Cedar
Creek Watershed Zoning Ordinance, the subdivision regulations and the
Comprehensive Plan for the Cedar Creek Watershed shall remain in full force and
effect, except that the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission shall
oversee and implement them from this point forward.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2002)
CHAPTER 32: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Title
   
32.02   Findings
   
32.03   Purpose
   
32.04   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
32.15   Conflicts of interest generally
   
32.16   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
32.17   Receipts gifts
   
32.18   Use of county property, equipment and personnel
   
32.19   Representations of interest
   
32.20   Confidential information; misuse
   
32.21   Honoraria
   
32.22   Nepotism
Financial Disclosures
   
32.35   Required filing
   
32.36   Filing deadlines; amended statements
   
32.37   Forms; financial statements
   
32.38   Control and maintenance of statements
   
32.39   Contents of financial interests statement
   
32.40   Noncompliance
Administration; Board of Ethics
   
32.55   Creation
   
32.56   Alternate members
   
32.57   Facilities and staff
   
32.58   Powers and duties
   
32.59   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
32.60   Notice of hearings
   
32.61   Hearing procedure
   
32.62   Appeals
   
32.63   Limitation of actions
   
32.64   Reprisals; violations
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “County Code of Ethics.”
(2001 Code, § 32.01) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Code of Ethics, see KRS 65.003
§ 32.02 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Fiscal Court finds and declares that:
      (1)   Public office and employment with the county are public trusts; and
      (2)   The vitality and stability of the government of the county depends
upon the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed
officers and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the
private interests and public duties of a county officer or employee, that
confidence is imperiled.
   (B)   The Fiscal Court has a duty to provide its citizens with standards by
which they may determine whether public duties are being faithfully performed,
and to make its officers and employees aware of the standard which the
citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while conducting their public
duties.
(2001 Code, § 32.02) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the county shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
county with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
(2001 Code, § 32.03) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The County Board of Ethics which is created and vested by
this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the
county’s code of ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which BUSINESS is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a county
office. An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   COUNTY. The County of Lincoln, Kentucky.
   COUNTY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by the county.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the county. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   County Judge/Executive;
      (2)   A Fiscal Court member;
      (3)   The County Clerk;
      (4)   The County Attorney;
      (5)   The County Jailer;
      (6)   The County Sheriff;
      (7)   The County Coroner;
      (8)   Constables; and
      (9)   A member of the governing body of any county agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the county.
(2001 Code, § 32.04) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 32.15 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST GENERALLY.
   Every officer and employee of the county and every county agency shall
comply with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the county to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take of refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the county in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business which the officer, employee or any family member has a
financial interest; or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer or a business, as defined
herein, as a member of any business, occupation, profession or other group, to
any greater extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any
other member of the business, occupation, profession or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the Fiscal Court or county agency served by the
officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the official record
of the proceedings of the Fiscal Court. The officer or employee shall refrain
from taking any action with respect to the matter that is the subject of the
disclosure.
(2001 Code, § 32.15) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.16 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the county or any county agency shall
directly or through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in
part, any contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the county or a
county agency, except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition shall not apply to contracts entered into before an
elected officer filed as a candidate for county office, before an appointed
officer was appointed to a county or county agency office, or before an
employee was hired by the county or a county agency; however, if any contract
entered into by a county or county agency officer or employee before he or she
became a candidate, was appointed to office or was hired as an employee, then
the prohibition shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition shall not apply if the contract is awarded after
public notice and competitive bidding, unless the officer or employee is
authorized to participate in establishing the contract specifications, awarding
the contract or managing contract performance after the contract is awarded. If
the officer or employee has any of the authorities set forth in the preceding
sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no interest in the contract,
unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition shall not apply in any case where the following
requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the Fiscal Court;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
Fiscal Court or county agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the Fiscal Court or county agency that the
contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests of the public
and the county or county agency because of price, limited supply or other
specific reasons; and
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the Fiscal
Court or county agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into
in violation of this section.
      (2)   Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the county in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
county.
(2001 Code, § 32.16) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.17 RECEIPTS GIFTS.
   No officers or employees of the county or any county agency shall directly,
or indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(2001 Code, § 32.17) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.18 USE OF COUNTY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the county shall use or permit the use of any
county time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for
the private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated county policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that the use is available to the general public.
(2001 Code, § 32.18) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.19 REPRESENTATIONS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the county or any county agency shall
represent any persons or business, other than the county, in connection with
any cause, proceeding, application or other matter pending before the county or
any county agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representations is within the context
of official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(2001 Code, § 32.19) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.20 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; MISUSE.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the county or any county agency shall
intentionally use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her
official duties, if the primary purpose of the use of disclosure is to further
his or her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
   (B)   Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to
disclosure pursuant to the State Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the
time of its use or disclosure.
(2001 Code, § 32.20) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.21 HONORARIA.
   (A)    No officer or employee of the county or a county agency shall accept
any compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100
in consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance,
speech or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities
outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s
service with the county.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
county or any county agency from receiving and retaining from the county or on
behalf of the county actual and reasonable out-of- pocket expenses incurred by
the officer or employee in connection with an appearance, a speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show that the expenses were incurred
or received on behalf of the county or county agency and primarily for the
benefit of the county or county agency and not primarily for the benefit of the
officer or employee or any other person.
(2001 Code, § 32.21) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.22 NEPOTISM.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the county or a county agency shall
advocate, recommend or cause the employment of more than one immediate family
member to an office or position of employment with the county or county agency.
   (B)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
January 1, 1995.
(2001 Code, § 32.22) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994) Penalty, see §
32.99
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 32.35 REQUIRED FILING.
   Elected county officials and candidates for elected county office shall file
an annual statement of financial interests with the Board of Ethics.
(2001 Code, § 32.35) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.36 FILING DEADLINES; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 4:00 p.m. January 31, provided that:
      (1)   Any newly-appointed individual to fill an elected vacancy with the
county shall file his or her initial statement no later than 30 days after the
date of the appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for county office shall file his or her initial
statement no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a
candidate for elected county office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(2001 Code, § 32.36) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.37 FORMS; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by
the Board of Ethics.
   (B)   The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than December 1 of each year.
   (C)   The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official,
to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the
officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(2001 Code, § 32.37) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.38 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interest
shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian,” as public documents,
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five years after
filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the county or a county agency, the Board shall cause to
be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person; and
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected county office was not elected or nominated, the Board
shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of
those statements filed by the person.
(2001 Code, § 32.38) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.39 CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer
exceeding $5,000 during the preceding calendar year, and the nature of the
income (e.g., salary, commission, dividends, retirement fund distribution and
the like); and
      (5)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individuals
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(2001 Code, § 32.39) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.40 NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall notify
by the certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(2001 Code, § 32.40) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
ADMINISTRATION; BOARD OF ETHICS
§ 32.55 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of five members, who shall be
appointed by the County Judge/Executive, subject to the approval of the Fiscal
Court. The Board of Ethics shall have at least one person from each Magisterial
District serving on the Board. The initial members of the Board of Ethics shall
be appointed within 60 days of the effective date of this chapter. No member of
the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or
unpaid, or any position of employment with the county or any county agency. The
members shall serve for a term of three years; except that with respect to the
members initially appointed, one member shall be appointed for a term of one
year, two members shall be appointed for a term of two years and two members
shall be appointed for a term of three years. No more than three of the members
shall be of the same political party. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall
have been a resident of the county for at least one year prior to the date of
the appointment and shall reside in the county throughout the term in office.
The members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of their known and
consistent reputation for integrity and their knowledge of local government
affairs. The members may be re-appointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the County Judge/
Executive, subject to the approval of the Fiscal Court for misconduct,
inability or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of
Ethics is removed from office under this section, the member shall be afforded
the opportunity for a hearing before the County Judge/Executive and the Fiscal
Court.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
County Judge/Executive, subject to the approval of the Fiscal Court. If a
vacancy is not filled by the County Judge/Executive within 60 days, the
remaining members of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies
shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the Fiscal Court, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of three or more members shall constitute a quorum and
the affirmative vote of three or more members shall be necessary for any
official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself
from voting on the matter and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing
a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(2001 Code, § 32.50) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.56 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The County Judge/Executive, with the approval of the Fiscal Court, may
appoint four alternate members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to
serve when any regular member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her
duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term of one year.
Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to all of the
requirements of this chapter that apply to regular members.
(2001 Code, § 32.51) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.57 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the county shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(2001 Code, § 32.52) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.58 POWER AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue subpoenas requiring the attendance
and testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating
to an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
Fiscal Court, the governing body of any county agency, the County Attorney or
other appropriate person or body, as necessary;
   (E)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the county agencies who are subject to its terms by issuing
appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (F)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter an the State Open Records Act (KRS 61.870 et seq.); and
   (G)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the County Judge/Executive or the Fiscal
Court.
(2001 Code, § 32.53) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.59 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days to each officer or
employee of the county or county agency who is the subject of the complaint a
copy of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or the
County Attorney any evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; or
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   (1)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary
inquiry whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it
alleges a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   If the Board concludes that the complaint is outside of its
jurisdiction, frivolous or without factual basis, the Board shall immediately
terminate the inquiry, reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of
its decision to the complainant and to all officers or employees against whom
the complaint was filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the county and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public
confidence in county government issues, in writing, a confidential reprimand to
the officer or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of
the confidential reprimand to the Fiscal Court or county agency; or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the county or any county agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(2001 Code, § 32.54) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.60 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(2001 Code, § 32.55) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.61 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The State Rules of Civil Procedure and the State Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics. The hearings
shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance with any
additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as to afford all
parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross- examine witnesses, to
submit evidence and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the County Judge/Executive and Fiscal Court
or county agency with which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the Fiscal Court that the violator be
sanctioned as recommend by the Board, which may include a recommendation for
discipline or dismissal or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(2001 Code, § 32.56) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.62 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the Court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(2001 Code, § 32.57) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.63 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(2001 Code, § 32.58) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
§ 32.64 REPRISALS; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the county or any county agency shall,
subject to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any
official authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to
discourage, restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce or discriminate
against any person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise
brings to the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official
of the county or the commonwealth any facts or information relative to an
actual or suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the county or any county agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
State Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; and/or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(2001 Code, § 32.59) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under §
32.40, within the time period established in the notice, shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an
amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. Any
civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be recovered by the
county in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses
to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
(2001 Code, § 32.99) (Ord. passed 11-10-1994)
CHAPTER 33: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Polling place procedure
   
33.02   Acceptance of bail bonds
   
33.03   Court costs
   
33.04   Ambulance service district
   
33.05   Enhanced 911 emergency system
   
33.06   Local franchise tax
   
33.07   911 Communications; personnel policies and procedures
   
33.08   Transportation of arrested persons
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 POLLING PLACE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No election officer shall do any electioneering at the polling place
or places on election day.
   (B)   No person shall do any electioneering on election day within 1,000
feet of any polling place denominated as such by the Election Commissioners.
   (C)   Electioneering means, inter alia, the urging of support for or
opposition to a candidate, party, proposition or question, whether done
verbally or by audio-visual methods such as signs, posters, cards or
loudspeakers.
   (D)   It is not the intent of this section to restrict an individual’s
constitutional right to support persons, parties or causes, but it is the
intent of this section to draw a 1,000-foot radius around polling places in
which no electioneering will transpire. In this manner, the citizenry may
exercise their right to vote unimpeded by last-minute pleas, appeals or
importunes.
(Ord. passed 5-6-1986) Penalty, see §
33.99
Statutory reference:
   Electioneering defined, see KRS 117.235(1)
§ 33.02 ACCEPTANCE OF BAIL BONDS.
   (A)   The County Jailer is authorized to prepare or accept bail bonds.
   (B)   For every bail bond processed by the Jailer, he or she shall collect a
fee of $5 from the defendant and shall furnish the defendant with a written
receipt for same.
   (C)   The accounting and reporting of the funds shall be dealt with pursuant
to KRS 431.5305.
(Ord. passed 7-14-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Accounting and reporting of funds, see KRS 431.510 to 431.535
§ 33.03 COURT COSTS.
   (A)   All items set forth in § 10a(1), (2) and (3) of the Budget
Modification Report are increased an additional $25.
   (B)   All items set forth in § 10a(4), (5), (7) and (8) of the Budget
Modification Report are increased an additional $10.
   (C)   All items set forth in § 10a(6) of the Budget Modification Report are
increased an additional $20.
   (D)   All items set forth in §§ 10b(1) and (2) of the Budget Modification
Report are increased an additional $10.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2000)
§ 33.04 AMBULANCE SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Fiscal Court hereby creates, pursuant to KRS 108.105, an ambulance
service district and an ambulance service tax of $0.05 per $100 of full
assessed valuation.
   (B)   The ambulance service district shall be countywide, and the countywide
tax will be collected in the manner provided for in KRS 108.100(4) and shall be
used solely for maintenance and operation of a countywide ambulance service
district.
   (C)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 108.110, the affairs of the ambulance service
district shall be operated by a Board of Directors, as set forth therein.
      (2)   The Board shall have the power to join other ambulance service
districts as approved by the Board of Directors.
(Ord. 101, passed 5-12-1982)
§ 33.05 ENHANCED 911 EMERGENCY SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   All persons, firms, corporations and other legal entities
constructing new structures or locating or relocating mobile homes in the
county are asked from and after this date to obtain an address notification
form duly issued by the addressing authority.
      (2)   Applicants should apply for the address notification form with the
addressing authority, who is located at the County Courthouse. The addressing
authority will furnish the applicant with a copy to present to the United
States Post Office.
      (3)   Immediately upon the filing of the address notification form, the
addressing authority shall assign a number and address to the structure. The
addressing authority shall keep a record of all numbers and addresses assigned.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or occupant or person in charge of any house,
building, mobile home or other structure to which a number has been assigned:
         (a)   Shall, within 30 days after the receipt of the number, affix the
number in a conspicuous manner in a conspicuous place; and
         (b)   Shall, within 30 days, remove any different number which might
be mistaken for or confused with the number assigned to the structure by the
issuing authority.
      (2)   Each principal building or structure shall display the number
assigned to the frontage on which the front entrance is located. In case the
principal building or structure is occupied by more than one business or family
dwelling unit, each separate front entrance may display a separate number.
      (3)   Numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal
building, or each front entrance to the building, shall be posted in a manner
as to be legible and distinguishable from the street or road on which the
property is located, with numbers applied, of not less than two inches in
height.
      (4)   Mailboxes shall be marked with the house number.
      (5)   If the structure is not visible from the street or road on which it
is located and no mailbox is beside the driveway leading to the structure, a
sign or number post shall be erected to display the number which may be
displayed either vertically from the top down or horizontally.
   (C)   In the event that the owner or occupant or person in charge of any
house or building refuses to comply with the terms of this section by failing
to affix the number assigned within 30 days after notification, or by failing
within the period of 30 days to remove any old numbers affixed to the house,
house entrance or elsewhere, which may be confused with the number assigned
thereto, appropriate responding units, i.e. fire, rescue or police, cannot be
held responsible.
   (D)   This section is limited to structures in the county and the
maintenance of the enhanced 911 emergency response system for structures within
the corporate limits of the Cities of Hustonville, Crab Orchard and Stanford
shall be controlled by the ordinances and regulations of the county.
(Ord. 114, passed 3-12-1991) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06 LOCAL FRANCHISE TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions, as defined in KRS
Chapter 136 located within the county for all tax years, a franchise tax at the
rate of $0.025 on all deposits maintained by financial institutions.
(Ord. passed 10-24-1996)
Cross-reference:
   Franchise Agreements, see
T.S.O. Table I
§ 33.07 911 COMMUNICATIONS; PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The personnel policies and procedures for 911 communications are adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 2-12-2008)
§ 33.08 TRANSPORTATION OF ARRESTED PERSONS.
   (A)   Duties of County Jailer. The County Jailer shall be the person
responsible for the transportation of prisoners of the county for a minimum of
40 hours per week, or for a greater number of hours based on the number of
deputy jailers funded by the County Fiscal Court.
   (B)   Duties of County Sheriff. Pursuant to KRS Chapter 441, the County
Sheriff shall be responsible for the transportation of prisoners at times when
the County Jailer or any deputy jailer is unavailable for such transports. This
requirement shall be limited to time periods for which the County Sheriff or
other supervisor with decision making authority determines that transportation
can be accomplished without compromising the safety of the citizens of the
county, and in as much as possible, the County Sheriff shall utilize court
security officers for transportation of prisoners.
   (C)   Other agencies. When the County Jailer or deputy jailers are not
available for transporting prisoners, an officer who makes an arrest in the
county shall be the primary person responsible for transporting the arrested
person to the jail facility of his or her choice which has a contract with the
County Fiscal Court for the housing of inmates who are arrested in the county.
   (D)   In all matters regarding transportation of prisoners KRS 441.505, et
seq. shall be controlling and all matters contained herein shall be interpreted
in accordance with said statutory provisions, and in such a manner as to make
the provisions hereof compliant with said statutes.
(Ord. 3.28.23, passed 3-28-2023)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
33.01 shall be fined from $10 to $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for
ten to 60 days, or both.
(Ord. passed 5-6-1986)
CHAPTER 34: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.001   Purpose
   
34.002   Scope of coverage
   
34.003   Administration
   
34.004   Equal employment opportunity
   
34.005   Americans with Disabilities Act
   
34.006   Drug-Free Workplace Act
   
34.007   Grievance procedure
   
34.008   Drug-free workplace certification
Harassment Policy
   
34.020   Discrimination and harassment
   
34.021   Harassment; definition
   
34.022   Sexual harassment; definition
   
34.023   Complaint procedures
   
34.024   False accusations policy
   
34.025   Employee inquiry procedure
Employment Process
   
34.040   Announcements of position
   
34.041   Applications
   
34.042   Appointments
   
34.043   Orientation of newly employed personnel
   
34.044   Personnel records
   
34.045   Classification; plan
   
34.046   Employment of relatives
   
34.047   Compensation
   
34.048   Educational requirements
Conditions of Employment
   
34.060   Introductory period
   
34.061   Transfer
   
34.062   Promotion
   
34.063   Demotion
   
34.064   Resignations
   
34.065   Retirement
   
34.066   Progressive discipline
   
34.067   Right to respond
   
34.068   Common infractions
   
34.069   Political activity
   
34.070   Employee bonding
   
34.071   Safety
   
34.072   Outside employment
Substance Abuse Policy
   
34.085   Purpose
   
34.086   Applicability
   
34.087   Definitions
   
34.088   Administration
   
34.089   Alcohol prohibitions
   
34.090   Drug prohibitions
   
34.091   Preconditions to testing
   
34.092   Types of testing
   
34.093   Collection of samples; laboratory analysis
   
34.094   Consequences; appeal of results
   
34.095   Confidentiality
   
34.096   Record retention
Employee Benefits
   
34.110   Retirement
   
34.111   Holidays
   
34.112   Vacation leave
   
34.113   Sick leave; Family and Medical Leave Act
   
34.114   Funeral leave
   
34.115   Special leave
   
34.116   Military leave
   
34.117   Voting leave
   
34.118   Jury duty or court leave
   
34.119   Insurance
   
34.120   Deferred compensation
   
34.121   Educational assistance; career development
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Fiscal Court recognizes that a personnel system which recruits
competent and dependable employees is indispensable to effective and efficient
county government. These policies and procedures, classification and pay plans
and job descriptions have been developed in order to achieve optimum efficiency
and economy in the pursuit of the county’s goals and the utilization of its
human resources.
   (B)   The policies and procedures set forth hereinafter are intended to
implement the personnel regulations by providing procedures for:
      (1)   Classifying positions in the county service;
      (2)   Recruiting persons for that service; and
      (3)   Compensating employees for their service to the county. While the
county is committed to the equitable treatment of its employees, it is
expressly noted that nothing in these policies is intended to create a contract
of employment. Any individual may voluntarily leave employment or may be
terminated by the county at any time, for any lawful reason or for no reason at
all. Any oral or written statements, custom or course of dealing to the
contrary, are hereby expressly disavowed.
(2001 Code, § 31.001) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.002 SCOPE OF COVERAGE.
   (A)   The following personnel policies and procedures have been adopted by
the Fiscal Court and are applicable to all persons employed or appointed to
positions at all levels in the county government, with the exception of the
following:
      (1)   All elected officials;
      (2)   Employees of the Sheriff, County Clerk, County Attorney, Coroner
and Jailer, unless expressly requested by the elected official in writing;
      (3)   All members of boards and commissions;
      (4)   Consultants, advisors and counsel rendering temporary professional
services;
      (5)   Independent contractors; and
      (6)   Members of volunteer organizations.
   (B)   All employees not expressly exempted from coverage shall be subject to
all provisions contained in these policies and procedures.
(2001 Code, § 31.002) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.003 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 67.710, the Judge/Executive is the chief executive of
the county. The Judge/Executive, by law, shall have all the powers and perform
all the duties of an executive and administrative nature vested in, or imposed
upon the county or its Fiscal Court. The Judge/Executive is responsible for the
proper administration of the affairs of the county placed in his or her charge.
Pursuant to KRS 67.710(7), the Judge/Executive, with the approval of the Fiscal
Court, has the authority to appoint, supervise, suspend and remove county
personnel, unless otherwise provided for by state statute. Notwithstanding the
provisions of KRS 67.710(7), KRS 67.711(1) gives the Judge/Executive express
authority to hire a deputy county Judge/Executive, and a reasonable number of
other assistants, secretaries and clerical workers to work within the Judge/
Executive’s office, who shall serve at his or her pleasure. The Fiscal Court,
pursuant to KRS 64.530(4), is required to fix reasonable compensation for these
positions.
   (B)   The Judge/Executive is hereby designated as the County Personnel
Administrator. In this capacity, the Judge/Executive may delegate the duties
and functions as he or she deems appropriate.
   (C)   In those situations where county constitutional officers have chosen
to adhere to the policies adopted by the Fiscal Court by providing a written
request to the Judge/Executive, the constitutional officer shall serve as the
executive authority for the office.
(2001 Code, § 31.003) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.004 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
   The Fiscal Court seeks to provide equal employment opportunity to all its
employees and applicants for employment and to prohibit discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability or because the
individual is a smoker or nonsmoker. The county promotes equal opportunity in
matters of hiring, training, promotion, pay, employee benefits and other
conditions of employment.
(2001 Code, § 31.004) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.005 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   The county complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990,
which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability and protects
qualified applicants and employees with disabilities from discrimination in
hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, job training, fringe benefits and other
aspects of employment.
   (B)   The county will provide reasonable accommodation to qualified
individuals with a disability who, with or without an accommodation, can
perform the essential functions of the job, unless the accommodation will
impose an undue hardship for the county.
      (1)   Any person (employee or citizen) who believes that he or she has
been subjected to prohibited discrimination may personally, or by legal
counsel, file a complaint with the office of the Judge/Executive or the
constitutional officer who serves as the agency’s executive authority. A person
who has not personally been subjected to discrimination may also file a
complaint.
      (2)   When a person (citizen, applicant or employee) believes he or she
has been adversely affected by an act or decision by the county, and that the
act or decision was based on disabled status, that person shall have the right
to process a complaint or grievance in accordance with the following procedure.
         (a)   Step one. An aggrieved person shall submit a written statement
to the county’s ADA Coordinator, setting forth the nature of the discrimination
alleged and facts upon which the allegation is based.
         (b)   Step two. The ADA Coordinator shall contact the complainant no
later than 15 days after receiving the written statement to establish an
informal meeting with the objective of resolving the matter informally.
However, in no case shall the informal meeting be conducted sooner than five
days, nor more than 45 days, after receiving the written statement. There shall
be prepared a written documentary of the discussions at the informal meeting,
which shall be preserved in the records of the county.
         (c)   Step three. Within 30 days of the informal meeting, the ADA
Coordinator shall issue a written decision on the matter.
         (d)   Step four. If the complainant is not satisfied with the written
decision, he or she may request reconsideration by the Judge/Executive or the
agency’s executive authority by filing a written request within 30 days of
receiving the ADA Coordinator’s decision. The Judge/Executive or the
constitutional officer shall investigate, which may include holding a meeting
with the complainant, and shall make a final, written decision.
      (3)   Written documentation of the discussions held at the meeting(s)
shall be prepared and shall be preserved in the records of the county.
(2001 Code, § 31.005) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.006 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE ACT.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the Fiscal Court that its workplace shall be
drug-free in compliance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (Pub. L. No.
100-690, Title V, Subtitle D), including any future amendments. This
publication provides details of this policy, a statement on dangers of drugs in
the workplace, sources of information and assistance and is the basis of a form
each employee is required to sign assuring compliance.
   (B)   It is the policy of the county that no employee shall engage in
unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a
controlled substance in the workplace. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE means a controlled
substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C.
§ 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through
1308.15, including any future additions or amendments.
   (C)   The purpose of this policy is to avoid the dangers of drugs in the
workplace, and to advise employees of available sources of counseling,
rehabilitation and employee assistance.
   (D)   Each employee is notified hereby that he or she shall notify the
Judge/Executive within five days of any criminal drug statute conviction for a
violation in the workplace. Within 30 days, the county shall take appropriate
action.
   (E)   Employees found to be abusing drugs, but not convicted of any drug
statute violation, shall be subject to appropriate personnel action up to and
including termination, or shall be required to participate satisfactorily in a
drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program approved for such purposes. The
employer shall not be required to pay for this rehabilitation.
   (F)   Any employee violating the terms of this policy is subject to
immediate dismissal.
(2001 Code, § 31.006) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.007 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   From time to time, differences may arise between employees and
employers. Every attempt shall be made by both to resolve these differences on
an informal basis.
   (B)   Pending failure of resolution on an informal basis, any grievance or
dispute which may arise from employment with the county shall be resolved in
the following manner.
      (1)   Step one.
         (a)   The aggrieved employee shall present the grievance to his or her
immediate supervisor within three working days of its occurrence or within
three working days of knowledge of its occurrence.
         (b)   The grievance (and all subsequent appeals) shall be in writing
and shall set forth the reasons and grounds for the grievance along with a
statement of the relief sought. The supervisor shall attempt to resolve the
matter and shall respond to the employee in writing within three working days.
         (c)   If the grievance is with the immediate supervisor, the
aggrieving employee shall begin the grievance procedure at step two.
      (2)   Step two.
         (a)   If the grievance remains unresolved, it may then be presented by
the aggrieved employee to the executive authority within three working days
after receiving the supervisor’s written response.
         (b)   The executive authority shall consider all information
concerning the grievance and shall make a decision regarding the matter and
respond to the employee within ten working days. The decision of the executive
authority shall be final.
(2001 Code, § 31.007) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.008 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Employees are hereby notified that the unlawful manufacture,
distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a controlled substance (as
defined in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. §
812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 C.F.R. §§ 1308.11 through
1308.15, including any future additions or amendments) is prohibited in the
workplace. As a condition of employment, employees will:
      (1)   Abide by the terms of the county’s drug-free workplace policies;
and
      (2)   Notify the employer of any criminal drug statute conviction for a
violation occurring in the workplace no later than five days after the
conviction.
   (B)   Penalties for drug abuse violations occurring in the workplace will
include:
      (1)   Requiring the employee to participate satisfactorily in an
appropriate drug abuse assistance or rehabilitation program; or
      (2)   Taking appropriate personnel action, up to and including
termination. If a supervisor has reasonable cause to suspect an employee of
illegal drug use on the job or reporting to work under the influence of the
same, he or she is to pursue appropriate action consistent with the drug and/or
alcohol testing, substance abuse policy contained herein. An employee reporting
to work on medication prescribed by a personal physician, which impairs job
performance, is to immediately notify his or her supervisor. The employee must
submit a doctor’s note indicating how the medication would affect his or her
job performance and/or health and safety of others, so appropriate steps may be
taken by supervisors to alleviate any hazards.
   (C)   The drug-free awareness program is intended to inform employees about:
      (1)   The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
      (2)   The employer’s intent of maintaining a drug-free workplace;
      (3)   Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation and employee
assistance programs; and
      (4)   The penalties that may be imposed upon employees for drug abuse
violations occurring in the workplace.
(2001 Code, § 31.008) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 34.020 DISCRIMINATION AND HARASSMENT.
   (A)   The Fiscal Court is committed to maintaining a work environment that
is free of discrimination and harassment.
   (B)   In keeping with this commitment, the county will not tolerate
harassing conduct that affects tangible job benefits, that interferes with an
individual’s work performance or that creates an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment by anyone, including any superior, co-worker,
vendor, client or citizen.
(2001 Code, § 31.020) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.021 HARASSMENT; DEFINITION.
   (A)   HARASSMENT is, on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, national
origin, age or disability, discrimination in the terms, conditions and
privileges of employment. Harassment is verbal, physical or visual conduct that
denigrates or shows hostility or aversion toward an individual because of his
or her race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age or disability, or
that of his or her friends, or associates, and that:
      (1)   Has the purpose or effect of creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive work environment;
      (2)   Has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an
individual’s work performance; and
      (3)   Otherwise adversely affects an individual’s employment
opportunities.
   (B)   HARASSING CONDUCT includes, but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   Epithets, slurs, negative stereotyping or threatening, intimidating
or hostile acts, that relate to race, color, religion, gender, national origin,
age or disability; or
      (2)   Written or graphic material that denigrates or shows hostility or
aversion toward an individual or group because of race, color, religion,
gender, national origin, age or disability that is placed on walls, bulletin
boards or elsewhere on the employer’s premises, or circulated in the workplace.
(2001 Code, § 31.021) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.022 SEXUAL HARASSMENT; DEFINITION.
   (A)   Sexual harassment deserves special mention.
   (B)   Inappropriate sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other
physical, verbal or visual conduct based on sex constitutes sexual harassment
when:
      (1)   Submission to the conduct is either explicitly or implicitly made a
term or condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of the conduct by an individual is used
as a basis for employment decisions affecting the individual; or
      (3)   The conduct has the purpose or effect of reasonably interfering
with an individual’s work performance, or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (C)   SEXUAL HARASSMENT may include explicit sexual propositions, sexual
innuendo, suggestive comments, sexually-oriented “kidding” or “teasing,”
“practical jokes,” jokes about gender-specific traits, foul or obscene language
or gestures, displays of foul or obscene language or gestures, displays of foul
or obscene printed or visual material and physical contact such as patting,
pinching or brushing against another’s body.
(2001 Code, § 31.022) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.023 COMPLAINT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All employees shall be responsible for helping to assure the county
avoids harassment and shall have the responsibility for reporting any
occurrence of harassment or sexual harassment. Employees encountering
harassment shall tell the offending person that his or her actions are
inappropriate and offensive. The employee shall document all incidents of
harassment in order to provide the fullest basis for investigation. If a person
feels that he or she has experienced or witnessed harassment, he or she shall
notify either the supervisor or department head. If the person involved in the
harassment is the supervisor or department head, the employee shall report the
situation to the Judge/Executive or the constitutional officer who governs the
agency. If the person involved in the harassment is the Judge/Executive or the
constitutional officer who governs the agency, the employee shall report the
situation to the County Attorney. Reports are to be made as soon as practicable
within 24 hours, and preferably in writing. Oral reports, however, shall also
be taken in the case of unusually sensitive circumstances.
   (B)   The county’s policy is to investigate all complaints. To the fullest
extent practicable, the county shall keep complaints and the terms of their
resolution confidential. If an investigation confirms that harassment has
occurred, the county will take corrective action and disciplinary action in
accordance with the nature and extent of the offense. Except as set forth in §
34.024, the county prohibits retaliation against any employee bringing a claim
of sexual harassment.
(2001 Code, § 31.023) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.024 FALSE ACCUSATIONS POLICY.
   While the county does not want to stifle an employee’s right to bring good
faith complaints of harassment or sexual harassment in any way, the county also
recognizes that false accusations of harassment and sexual harassment can have
a serious effect on innocent men and women. Accusations which, after
investigation, are determined to be intentionally false, or otherwise malicious
in intent may result in appropriate disciplinary action against the accuser.
(2001 Code, § 31.024) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.025 EMPLOYEE INQUIRY PROCEDURE.
   The county encourages any employee to raise questions he or she may have
regarding the harassment or sexual harassment policy with his or her immediate
supervisor, department head or the Judge/Executive.
(2001 Code, § 31.025) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
EMPLOYMENT PROCESS
§ 34.040 ANNOUNCEMENT OF POSITION.
   (A)   Announcement of a position shall include such information as to where
to apply, deadlines for application, the title and pay ranges for the position,
summary of duties of the position and the position qualifications required. All
written announcements of a position shall contain the following statement: “An
Equal Opportunity Employer M\F\D.”
   (B)   Announcements for newly established or existing positions shall be
made public in a newspaper of general circulation in the area. The county’s
work force shall be notified by posting of job vacancies or newly established
positions in a conspicuous place to which all employees have access. Employees’
requests for consideration for the positions shall be made to the Judge/
Executive or appropriate constitutional officer in writing.
(2001 Code, § 31.035) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.041 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Official application forms supplied by the county and completed by the
applicant shall require legally authorized:
      (1)   Information about the applicant’s training and experience;
      (2)   References and signed release form; and
      (3)   Whatever additional information is required for an evaluation of
the applicant’s fitness for the position for which he or she applies.
   (B)   Each application shall be reviewed by the Judge/Executive or
appropriate constitutional officer and other persons as deemed appropriate.
   (C)   No person may be appointed to a position unless verified information
on an official application form indicates that the person meets the required
qualifications set forth in the position description for the position.
   (D)   All application forms filed with the county shall be kept by the
executive authority, or his or her designee, for the time required by law.
   (E)   All applicants shall be given a copy of the position description
describing the job requirements and necessary qualifications.
(2001 Code, § 31.036) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.042 APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   There are four types of appointments.
      (1)   Introductory.
         (a)   The first 90 days of service in a position to which an employee
has been appointed, promoted, re-employed or reinstated shall constitute an
introductory period. At the end of the introductory period, a written
evaluation shall be given to the employee by his or her supervisor. A copy of
the evaluation shall be placed in the employee’s personnel file. Upon
successful completion of the introductory period, the employee shall receive
regular status.
         (b)   If, at any time during the introductory period, the appointing
authority determines that the services of the employee have been unsatisfactory
or are no longer needed, an employee may be separated from his or her position
without the right of appeal or a hearing.
      (2)   Full-time. After successful completion of an introductory period,
full-time appointments are made on a full-time basis, to full-time established
positions, for an indefinite period.
      (3)   Part-time. Appointments may be made on a part-time basis, to part-
time positions, for an indefinite period.
      (4)   Temporary. Temporary appointments are made on a full-time or part-
time basis, to a temporary or regularly established position, for a specified
period of time not to exceed six months, unless otherwise approved by the
Fiscal Court.
   (B)   Full-time employees who have successfully completed their introductory
period shall be entitled to all benefits as provided in these policies. Part-
time or temporary employees shall not be entitled to any benefits unless
otherwise stated in these policies.
   (C)   In determining the qualifications of an applicant for a position, the
county may consider one or more of the following:
      (1)   Information the applicant supplies on an application form
prescribed and supplied by the county;
      (2)   Written, performance or post job offer physical examinations;
      (3)   Interviews;
      (4)   Information and evaluations supplied by the references whom the
applicant identifies on the application form; and
      (5)   Other appropriate means.
   (D)   All persons who qualify for an appointment to a position of a
particular classification shall be considered by the executive authority for
appointment. No person may be appointed to a position unless verified
information on an official application form indicates that the person has the
desired qualifications set forth in the position description.
   (E)   All county employees shall be appointed and removed by the Judge/
Executive, with approval of the Fiscal Court, unless they are employees
appointed pursuant to the authorities granted to the Judge/Executive by KRS
67.711(1). Employees of county constitutional offices shall be appointed and
removed by the appropriate constitutional officer.
(2001 Code, § 31.037) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.043 ORIENTATION OF NEWLY EMPLOYED PERSONNEL.
   (A)   An orientation shall be made available to all new employees by their
supervisor as soon as possible after their first day of employment.
   (B)   The orientation shall consist of the following elements:
      (1)   Explanation of the purpose and goals of the county;
      (2)   Overview of the county’s history, structure and operations;
      (3)   Overview of management policies and procedures; and
      (4)    Other elements deemed appropriate.
   (C)   A copy of the county’s personnel policies and procedures shall be kept
at each work station. Employees shall be expected to be familiar with the
contents of these policies, and are encouraged to discuss any questions with
their supervisor or the personnel officer.
(2001 Code, § 31.038) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.044 PERSONNEL RECORDS.
   (A)   A personnel file shall be maintained for each county employee by the
executive authority or his or her designee. All changes in the status of
employees shall be recorded in these files, which shall be retained and
maintained in accordance with applicable state and federal laws.
   (B)   The file shall contain:
      (1)   The employee’s name, address and telephone number where the
employee may be reached;
      (2)   Position title;
      (3)   Hiring date;
      (4)   Departmental assignment;
      (5)   Salary;
      (6)   All changes in status as a county employee;
      (7)   Documented compliance with labor standards and EEO requirements;
      (8)   Performance appraisals and evaluations;
      (9)   Commendations and disciplinary memoranda; and
      (10)   Whatever additional information this chapter, other governing laws
or the county requires.
   (C)   Employee medical records of a confidential nature shall be maintained
separately from other employee files.
   (D)   Personnel records of the county shall be public records, as defined
and controlled by the appropriate state statutes. They shall be retained in
accordance with the retention schedules adopted by the State Archives and
Records Commission.
(2001 Code, § 31.039) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.045 CLASSIFICATION; PLAN.
   (A)   (1)   All employees of the county shall be classified as full-time,
part-time or temporary/ seasonal.
         (a)   A REGULAR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE is an employee who works 35 hours
per week on a regularly scheduled basis.
         (b)   A REGULAR PART-TIME EMPLOYEE is an employee who works less than
35 hours per week, but on a regularly scheduled basis.
         (c)   A TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE is an employee who works in a position
which is of a temporary nature, either full-time or part-time, to meet a week
workload. The maximum time limit for temporary employees is six months.
         (d)   A SEASONAL EMPLOYEE is an employee who works in a position which
is temporary in nature, either full time or part-time, to meet temporary
seasonal demands. The maximum time limit for seasonal employees is 11 months.
      (2)   The number of hours which constitute a work week for employees of
constitutional officers shall be determined by the appropriate constitutional
officer.
      (3)   Only full-time or part-time employees may occupy regular positions.
      (4)   Full-time employees in regular positions who have successfully
completed their introductory period shall be entitled to all benefits provided
by the county. Part-time and temporary employees shall not be entitled to any
benefits except those required by federal or state law.
      (5)   This classification of employees by the county is merely intended
to provide a basic delineation between the types of employment available with
the county. It is expressly noted that nothing in the semantical classification
of employees is intended to create a contract of employment. Any individual may
voluntarily leave employment or be terminated at any time, for any lawful
reason or no reason at all. Any oral, written statements, custom or course of
dealing to the contrary are hereby expressly disavowed.
   (B)   (1)   Allocations. In the classification plan authorized by the Fiscal
Court or appropriate constitutional officer:
         (a)   Each position shall, on the basis of the duties and
responsibilities of the position, be allocated to an appropriate class; and
         (b)   A class may include either a single position or two or more
positions.
      (2)   Written position descriptions.
         (a)   Each class shall have a position description that includes:
            1.   A concise, descriptive title;
            2.   A description of the duties and responsibilities of positions
in the class; and
            3.   A statement of minimum qualifications for each position.
         (b)   All positions in a single class shall be sufficiently alike to
permit:
            1.   The use of a single descriptive title for the class;
            2.   A concise, general description of the duties of each position
in the class:
            3.   Description of the same qualifications for each position;
            4.   The use of the same tests of competence for each position; and
            5.   Application of the same pay range to each position.
      (3)   Regular review/evaluation. At least once each year, the executive
authority or his or her designee shall review the classification of positions
and may recommend combining classes, establishing new ones or abolishing
unnecessary classes as the needs of the service require.
(2001 Code, § 31.040) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.046 EMPLOYMENT OF RELATIVES.
   The employment of relatives is addressed in
Chapter 32 of this code. This chapter prohibits county officers or employees
from advocating, recommending or causing the employment of more than one
immediate family member to an office or position of employment with the county.
(2001 Code, § 31.041) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.047 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Pay plan.
      (1)   A pay plan prepared pursuant to this chapter shall prescribe for
each class a minimum and a maximum rate of pay and whatever intermediate steps,
if any, the Judge/Executive and Fiscal Court, or the relevant constitutional
officer deem equitable.
      (2)   Upon the adoption of a pay plan in accordance with this chapter,
the Fiscal Court, or the appropriate constitutional officer shall assign each
class to one of the pay grades the plan provides.
      (3)   Salary grades are determined by the relative difficulty and
responsibility of the positions of the class, minimum qualifications;
prevailing rates of pay; cost of living factors; the financial policy of the
county; and other related considerations.
      (4)   At least once each year, the executive authority or his or her
designee may:
         (a)   Compare the county’s salary rates, compensation policies and
personnel developments of the county with those of other employers, public and
private, in the area;
         (b)   Analyze fluctuations in the cost of living; and
         (c)   Make recommendations for amendment of the pay plan based upon
comparison, analysis and examination.
      (5)   Employees shall be given consideration prior to the beginning of
the fiscal year for increase to the next step of the grade assigned to their
position, pending satisfactory service and availability of county funds.
      (6)   An appointee to a new position shall receive the minimum salary for
the class to which the position is allocated, except that the Judge/Executive
(with the approval of the Fiscal Court) or the appropriate constitutional
officer may cause the appointment to be made at a salary above the minimum in
cases of unusual difficulty in filling the position, or in hiring exceptionally
qualified personnel.
      (7)   In cases where appointments have been made above the minimum,
justification for these appointments shall be made by the executive authority
in writing.
   (B)   Hours of work.
      (1)   Each employee shall work according to a schedule of hours
determined by his or her supervisor. Non-supervisory full-time employees shall
work a minimum of 35 hours per week.
      (2)   Flexible work schedules may be utilized as agreed to in writing
between each employee and his or her department head with the executive
authority’s approval.
   (C)   Overtime.
      (1)   In order to determine whether an employee will receive overtime pay
for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week, each class shall be declared
“exempt” or “non-exempt” in accordance with provisions of existing labor laws.
Exempt employees shall not be compensated in cash for overtime worked. Non-
exempt employees shall receive overtime pay at the rate of one and one-half
times the hourly wages for actual hours worked in excess of 40 hours in any
work week. Non-exempt employees who are required to work all seven days in a
work week shall receive overtime pay at the rate of one and one-half times the
hourly wage for all hours worked on the seventh day of the work week if the
cumulative weekly total exceeds 40 hours.
      (2)   Time off with pay (such as vacation or sick leave) shall not be
considered as hours worked for overtime pay purposes.
      (3)   Holidays, vacation, sick leave, voting leave or other days for
which employees are paid, but which are not worked, shall not be used for
computing overtime.
      (4)   Overtime work shall be approved in advance by the employee’s
immediate supervisor whenever possible, and shall be kept at the minimum
consistent with maintenance of essential services and the county’s financial
resources.
   (D)   Work week.
      (1)   The official work week begins on Wednesday at 12:01 a.m. and ends
on Tuesday at 12:00 midnight.
      (2)   The county may change the official work week at any time, but not
to avoid overtime provisions.
(2001 Code, § 31.042) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.048 EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The Fiscal Court shall hire part-time employees or seasonal employees
without a high school diploma or GED.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2015)
CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT
§ 34.060 INTRODUCTORY PERIOD.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter of the county’s personnel
policies, including the successful completion of an initial or promotional
introductory period, shall alter the “at-will” employment status between the
county and the employee. The employee or the county may terminate the
employment relationship during or after the initial or promotional introductory
period for any lawful reason, or for no reason at all.
   (B)   (1)   Initial. All persons initially appointed to regular positions
shall be on an initial introductory period of 90 days.
      (2)   Promotional. Any employee who has served an initial introductory
period and is promoted from within the county service to a new position shall
be on an introductory period (referred to as a promotional introductory period)
in the new position for a period of 90 days.
         (a)   While on an initial introductory period, an employee may be
dismissed at any time without right of appeal.
         (b)   An employee serving a promotional introductory period may be
reinstated, without right of appeal, to the position from which he or she was
promoted or to a position comparable to the one from which he or she was
promoted.
         (c)   The introductory period may be extended for a class of positions
if it is deemed that a longer period is needed to learn the work and evaluate
that effectiveness of the work performed.
         (d)   An introductory period extended for a class of positions may be
extended for no longer than 90 days.
      (3)   Evaluation. At the completion of the initial introductory period,
the employee’s performance shall be evaluated by the supervisor or department
head. A determination shall be made at that time relevant to continuation of
the introductory period
      (4)   Time off. During the initial introductory period, a new employee
shall not take vacation or sick time which has been earned or accrued. Any time
off taken during the initial introductory period shall be time without pay. If
an employee terminates before the end of the introductory period, no payment
will be made for any benefits earned or accrued.
(2001 Code, § 31.055) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.061 TRANSFER.
   Any employee occupying a regular position may request a transfer from one
position to another comparable position, provided, the position to which the
employee is transferred is one for which he or she possess the appropriate
minimum qualifications, and provided, that the position applied for is vacant.
The request shall be in writing.
(2001 Code, § 31.056) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.062 PROMOTION.
   (A)   When a vacancy occurs in a position above the entrance level,
consideration shall be given to promotion of current qualified employees who
submit written application for the position. However, if the executive
authority deems that the best interest of the county necessitates the
appointment of an applicant not currently employed by the county, the position
may be filled by appointment of a person from outside the government.
   (B)   An employee occupying a regular position may be promoted from one
position to a higher position only if he or she possesses the minimum
qualifications for the higher position and if the position is vacant.
(2001 Code, § 31.057) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.063 DEMOTION.
   In the event an employee becomes unable to perform the duties as stated in
the position description, for disciplinary reasons, or in lieu of a layoff, an
employee may be demoted, at the county’s discretion, provided the employee
meets the qualifications for the demoted position, and the position is vacant.
The employee’s salary in the position to which he or she is demoted shall not
exceed the maximum salary for the position, as established in the county’s
compensation plan.
(2001 Code, § 31.058) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.064 RESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   An employee wishing to resign should inform his or her
supervisor or department head of the intended resignation as soon as possible
after the decision is made. The notice shall be in writing, and shall include
the effective date of the resignation.
      (2)   An employee’s resignation and its attending reasons, if noted,
shall be recorded in the employee’s personnel file.
      (3)   The employment date of an employee who resigns and is reinstated
shall be the latest date of re-employment.
      (4)   Any employee who is absent from work for three consecutive work
days without notifying his or her department head of the reason(s) for the
absence shall be considered to have voluntarily resigned his or her employment
with the county.
   (B)   (1)   The Judge/Executive, with the approval of the Fiscal Court, may
lay off an employee or employees because of lack of work or funds. The order of
layoff shall be determined by the needs of the county. Other constitutional
officers may lay off employees, without approval of the Fiscal Court, because
of lack of work or funds. The order of layoff shall be determined by the needs
of the particular office.
      (2)   Consideration shall be given to the seniority and merit of persons
being considered for layoff.
      (3)   Temporary, seasonal and initial introductory employees shall be
laid off before employees occupying regular positions affected by layoff.
      (4)   Two weeks before the effective date of the layoff of an employee
occupying a regular position, the Judge/Executive shall notify the employee of
the layoff in writing. The notice shall explain the reasons for and duration of
the layoff, if known; a copy of the notice shall be placed in the employee’s
personnel file.
      (5)   An employee who is laid off may, at the county’s discretion, be
eligible for re-employment in other positions, provided that he or she meets
the qualifications for the position and provided that the other position is
vacant. If done, any unused sick leave accrued previously shall be reinstated
to the employee.
   (C)   (1)   The Judge/Executive, with the approval of the Fiscal Court, may
re-employ any former employee who has resigned from the county with a
satisfactory employment record, or who has been laid off because of lack of
work or funds. Other constitutional officers may also re-employ former
employees under these conditions.
      (2)   The Judge/Executive shall reinstate into the former position or a
comparable position any employee who fails during a promotional introductory
period to serve satisfactorily in a position to which he or she has been
promoted. The reinstated employee shall receive at least the rate of pay that
was received at the time of promotion.
(2001 Code, § 31.059) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.065 RETIREMENT.
   The county does not have a mandatory retirement age for its employees. The
county does participate in the county employees retirement system (CERS),
including the standard unused sick leave program.
(2001 Code, § 31.060) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Retirement, see KRS 61.510 et seq. and KRS 78.510 et seq.
§ 34.066 PROGRESSIVE DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   Generally, the Fiscal Court believes in the application of progressive
discipline. However, the county reserves the right to skip any step or
requirement in the disciplinary action sequence outlined below depending on the
severity of the misconduct or when the facts or circumstances otherwise
warrant. Further, it is also noted that in establishing the following
disciplinary procedures, it is specifically not the county’s intention to
create any employment situation that compromises its at-will employment status.
As expressly stated herein, nothing in these policies is intended to create a
contract of employment. Any individual may voluntarily leave employment or may
be terminated by the county at any time, for any lawful reason, or for no
reason at all. Any oral, written statements, custom or course of dealing to the
contrary are hereby expressly disavowed.
   (B)   When an employee fails to follow any rule, regulation, operating
procedure or job requirement, one of the following measures shall apply,
depending upon the circumstances involved and the severity of the offense.
      (1)   Verbal warning.
         (a)   In the case of a minor infraction, the immediate supervisor or
department head shall administer the verbal reprimand as soon as possible after
the offense.
         (b)   The date of the verbal reprimand, along with a description of
the occurrence which prompted the reprimand and any comments the employee may
have made, shall be noted by the person giving the reprimand in his or her own
supervisory file.
      (2)   Written warning.
         (a)   In the case of either a second minor infraction or a more
serious first infraction, the immediate supervisor or department head shall
give the employee written warning specifying the reason(s) for the warning and
noting any previous verbal and/or written warnings.
         (b)   After issuing a written warning, the county may choose to have
the employee’s performance reviewed on a daily basis for improvement. In doing
so, the county shall explain the consequences of continued infractions.
         (c)   The employee shall sign the written warning, or the warning
shall be signed by a witness. A copy of the written warning shall be forwarded
to the personnel officer to be placed in the employee’s personnel file.
      (3)   Suspension.
         (a)   After either a serious violation or repeated minor violations,
the supervisor or department head shall request, in writing, that the Judge/
Executive, suspend the employee with or without pay. The request shall include
the reason(s) for the suspension, if any, along with details of previous
disciplinary action(s) taken against the employee, if any.
         (b)   The Judge/Executive, with the approval of the Fiscal Court, may
suspend an employee for any period up to and including four calendar weeks,
depending upon the offense’s severity. Other constitutional officers may also
exercise this authority, without the approval of the Fiscal Court.
         (c)   When a decision to suspend an employee is made, the Judge/
Executive shall provide written notification to the employee within three
working days. The notice shall include the reason(s) for the suspension, if
any, and the duration of the suspension.
         (d)   Employees suspended without pay for a period of four calendar
weeks shall not be eligible for county benefits, including accrual of sick and
vacation time, and the county’s contribution to life and medical insurance.
      (4)   Suspension without pay.
         (a)   In situations where the county has become aware of alleged
misconduct by an employee which, if substantiated, could result in disciplinary
action, the appointing authority may suspend the employee without pay if it is
determined the action is necessary to assure public confidence in governmental
oversight of its employees, or to assure the integrity of county’s inquiry into
the allegations.
         (b)   In the event it is necessary to suspend an employee with pay,
the following procedures shall be observed.
            1.   The county shall, if possible, immediately provide verbal
notification to the employee, followed by written notification, within three
working days, informing him or her of the suspension and the nature of the
allegations being investigated.
            2.   Consistent with existing personnel procedures, the county
shall immediately begin an investigation into the allegations against the
employee. This investigation shall be carried out expeditiously, and in no
instances shall it be delayed beyond what is considered reasonable and
necessary to conduct a complete investigation.
            3.   Upon reaching a determination as to the culpability of the
employee, the appointing authority shall take action, as follows:
               a.   In the event the allegations against the employee are
valid, the appointing authority shall invoke disciplinary action as deemed
appropriate. These actions shall not include payment of wages in the event the
suspension is extended beyond the investigative period; or
               b.   In the event the allegations against the employee are
proven to be false, the employee shall immediately be reinstated to his or her
position.
            4.   During the time an employee is on suspension with pay, he or
she is considered to be performing services for the county. Therefore, the
employee must remain available to return to work within 24 hours of receiving
written or verbal confirmation of his or her reinstatement from the appointing
authority. In the event the employee is notified of this reinstatement
verbally, the county shall provide written verification within one working day.
            5.   Nothing in this policy or procedure should be construed as
limiting the authority of the local government to suspend an employee without
pay in those instances where the action is deemed appropriate.
      (5)   Dismissal.
         (a)   When an offense is repeated, or misconduct is serious enough for
discharge on the first offense, a supervisor or department head may recommend
dismissal of an employee. The recommendation shall include the reason(s) for
dismissal, if any, details of previous disciplinary action taken against the
employee, if any, and the recommended effective date and time of discharge.
         (b)   Upon review of the supervisor or department head’s
recommendation to dismiss, and after receiving the approval of the Fiscal
Court, the Judge/Executive shall provide the employee with a letter of intent
to dismiss containing:
            1.   The reason(s) for dismissal, if any;
            2.   The details of previous disciplinary action(s) taken against
the employee, if any; and
            3.   The recommended effective date and time of the intended
discharge. Other constitutional officers operating under these policies shall
also comply with this requirement, but do not have to have the approval of the
Fiscal Court.
(2001 Code, § 31.061) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.067 RIGHT TO RESPOND.
   (A)   An employee who has been notified of an intent to dismiss him or her
has the right to appear personally or with counsel before the Fiscal Court to
respond to the letter of intent to dismiss. Other constitutional officers
operating under these policies shall serve as the hearing authority under this
policy.
   (B)   The request to respond must be made within five working days of the
employee’s receipt of the letter of intent to dismiss, excluding the day it was
received. If the employee does not submit such a request within five working
days, it will be deemed that the employee has waived his or her right to
respond.
   (C)   The employee’s meeting with the Fiscal Court/constitutional officer
shall be held within five working days after receipt of the employee’s request,
excluding the day it was received.
   (D)   The meeting shall be informal. It gives the employee the opportunity
to respond to charges contained in the letter of intent to dismiss.
   (E)   Within five working days, excluding the day of the meeting, the Fiscal
Court shall make a final determination on the termination. The employee shall
be notified, in writing, of the Fiscal Court’s decision by the Judge/Executive.
The decision of the Fiscal Court shall be final. In situations involving other
constitutional offices, the decision of the constitutional officer shall be
final.
   (F)   The action shall be recorded in the employee’s personnel file.
(2001 Code, § 31.062) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.068 COMMON INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   The following is a list of common infractions.
   (B)   While this list does not include all actions that call for
disciplinary action, it is intended as a guide to assist in avoiding activities
that are in conflict with the principles and goals of an efficient work force.
      (1)   Absenteeism, lateness or extended meal times;
      (2)   Gambling while on duty;
      (3)   Abuse of sick leave;
      (4)   Insubordination;
      (5)   Theft of county property;
      (6)   Leaving work without authorization;
      (7)   Intoxication or use of intoxicants while on duty;
      (8)   Reporting to work under the influence of drugs or alcohol;
      (9)   Unauthorized use of county property or vehicles;
      (10)   Provoking or inciting a fight or fighting during work hours;
      (11)   Mistreatment (physical or verbal) of citizens;
      (12)   Willful neglect or abuse of county property;
      (13)   Deliberate falsification of time records;
      (14)   Conviction of a felony;
      (15)   Improper discussion or disclosing of confidential information;
      (16)   Failure to comply with established safety practices or procedures;
      (17)   Harassment, including sexual harassment;
      (18)   Supplying false information on employment application;
      (19)   Incompetency;
      (20)   Dishonesty;
      (21)   Failure to maintain personal hygiene or appropriate dress; and
      (22)   Violation of established employer policies.
(2001 Code, § 31.063) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.069 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   No employee, as a condition of employment or continued employment,
shall be required to contribute to a campaign or campaign for any candidate for
political office.
   (B)   No employee of the county shall engage in political activity during
his or her assigned duty hours or while in uniform.
(2001 Code, § 31.064) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.070 EMPLOYEE BONDING.
   (A)   All applicants seeking county employment which involves the handling
of county funds or writing county checks shall be bondable.
   (B)   All employees involved in handling county funds shall be bonded at the
expense of the county.
(2001 Code, § 31.065) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.071 SAFETY.
   (A)   The health and safety of employees is a primary concern of the county.
As a condition of employment, employees are required to comply with all safety
procedures that are established for the position held by the employee,
including the use of seatbelts when driving or riding in any county vehicle.
Additionally, any employee who becomes aware of any unsafe or hazardous
condition shall report the situation to his or her supervisor or department
head immediately.
   (B)   All work-related injuries must be reported to the employee’s immediate
supervisor or the department head as soon as possible after the injury occurs,
but no later than the end of the workday/shift.
   (C)   Failure to comply with established workplace safety rules, report
workplace injuries or failure to report unsafe/hazardous conditions of which
the employee is aware shall result in personnel action, up to and including
termination from employment.
(2001 Code, § 31.066) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.072 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   County employees owe their primary work allegiance and energies to their
county job. Any outside employment that interferes with or creates a conflict
of interest with the employee’s county employment is prohibited.
(2001 Code, § 31.067) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY
§ 34.085 PURPOSE.
   Consistent with the county’s policy to maintain a safe, healthy, drug-free
work environment in compliance with the Drug-Free Work Place Act of 1988 and
the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991, and in the interest of
assuring the safety of the general public by employing persons in safety
sensitive positions that do not abuse alcohol or illegal drugs, the following
policies are adopted and strictly adhered to by the county. For purposes of
complying with federal drug and alcohol regulations, the substance abuse
testing procedures for employees covered by the Omnibus Transportation Employee
Testing Act of 1991 (commercial driver’s license) shall be established and
administered separately from the county’s overall substance abuse testing
program.
(2001 Code, § 31.080) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.086 APPLICABILITY.
   This policy applies to all employees that are subject to appointment by the
Judge/Executive, with approval from the Fiscal Court, employees of other
constitutional officers that are required to have commercial driver’s licenses,
and employees of constitutional officers that have requested in writing that
their employees be covered by these policies. Additionally, all applicants for
county employment are subject to pre-employment drug testing. However, random
testing requirements contained within this policy are applicable only to
persons required to have commercial driver’s licenses (CDL) pursuant to the
Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991, and those persons employed
by the county deemed to be performing safety sensitive functions, as delineated
within the random testing policy. For testing purposes, those employees
subjected to testing for compliance with CDL regulations shall be maintained in
separate testing programs.
(2001 Code, § 31.081) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.087 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENT. An incident which results in the death of a human being or bodily
injury to a person who, as a result of the injury, immediately receives medical
treatment away from the scene of the ACCIDENT. Additionally, any incident which
results in a vehicle being towed from the site also constitutes an ACCIDENT.
All incidents meeting these standards shall be considered cause for post
accident drug/alcohol testing of the employee.
   ALCOHOL. The intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl alcohol or other
low molecular weight alcohol including methyl and isopropyl alcohol.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION (OR CONTENT). The alcohol in a volume of breath
expressed in terms of grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath as indicated by
an evidential breath test.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle or combination of motor vehicles
used in commerce to transport passengers or property if the motor vehicle:
      (1)   Has a gross combination weight of 26,001 or more pounds inclusive
of a towed unit with a gross vehicle weight rating of more than 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Has a gross vehicle weight of 26,001 or more pounds;
      (3)   Is designed to transport 16 or more passengers, including the
driver; or
      (4)   Is of any size and is used in the transportation of materials found
to be hazardous for the purposes of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act
and which require the motor vehicle to be placarded under the Hazardous
Materials Regulations (49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F).
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. The meaning as assigned by 21 U.S.C. § 802 and
includes all substances listed on schedules I through V as they may be revised
from time to time (21 C.F.R. part 1308), i.e., marijuana (THC metabolite),
cocaine, amphetamines, opiates (including heroin), phencyclide (PCP).
   DETECTABLE AMOUNT. The cutoff level defined by federal or state regulation.
   DRIVER. Any person who operates a commercial motor vehicle. This includes,
but is not limited to, full time, regularly employed drivers; casual,
intermittent or occasional drivers; leased drivers and independent, owner-
operator contractors who are either directly employed by or under lease to any
employer or who operate a commercial motor vehicle at the direction of or with
the consent of an employer.
   DRUG AND ALCOHOL TEST. The compulsory production and submission of urine,
breath or blood sample by an employee in accordance with procedures contained
herein for chemical analysis to detect drug and/or alcohol use.
   EMPLOY. An individual employed by the county.
   MEDICAL REVIEW OFFICER or MRO. A licensed M.D. or D.O. (Doctor of
Osteopathy) with knowledge of drug abuse disorders who is employed or use to
conduct drug tests in accordance with this subchapter.
   ON-DUTY TIME. All time from the time the employee begins work or is required
to be in readiness to work until the time he is relieved from work and all
responsibility for performing work. ON-DUTY TIME shall include:
      (1)   All time waiting to work or working unless relieved from duty by
the employer; and
      (2)   All safety sensitive functions, as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 395.2.
   OWNER-OPERATOR. A driver(s) who has contracted for services with the county.
For the purposes of this subchapter and the county’s alcohol and drug abuse
policy, OWNER-OPERATORS are not to be considered county employees, but will be
required to participate in the county’s alcohol and drug abuse policy like all
county employee drivers.
   PERFORMING A SAFETY SENSITIVE FUNCTION. An employee is considered to be
PERFORMING A SAFETY SENSITIVE FUNCTION during any period in which he or she is
actually performing, ready to perform or immediately available. This includes
any employee who performs a duty that requires a CDL license, any employee who
holds a CDL license or other classifications identified within the random
selection section of this policy.
   POSITIVE DRUG SCREEN. Positive identification of alcohol, a drug or a
metabolite which has been confirmed by sophisticated scientific laboratory
tests.
   RANDOM SELECTION PROCESS. Alcohol and drug tests are unannounced. Tests
conducted annually for employees who are CDL drivers shall equal or exceed 25%
for alcohol tests and 50% for drug test of the total number of drivers subject
to testing.
   REASONABLE CAUSE. The employer believes the actions, appearance or conduct
of an employee who is on duty are indicative of substance abuse. Justification
for such a conclusion may be actions, appearance or conduct consistent with
those conditions identified herein or other identifiable actions, appearance of
conduct that raise the suspicion of appropriately trained persons. Reasonable
suspicion will be determined by two or more supervisory personnel who will
attest to their observations. The Judge/Executive will make the final
determination.
   SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROFESSIONAL or SAP. This is a doctor who specializes in
counseling or helping a person deal with his or her substance abuse problems.
   UNDER THE INFLUENCE. An individual is considered to be under the influence
of intoxicants when the individuals blood alcohol content exceeds 0.02%. An
individual is considered to be UNDER THE INFLUENCE of a controlled substance
when any detectable amount of the substance is identified through employee
testing.
(2001 Code, § 31.082) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.088 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Judge/Executive, the personnel officer or the appropriate constitutional
officer will serve as the program administrator (PA) of this subchapter.
(2001 Code, § 31.083) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.089 ALCOHOL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The following conduct is strictly prohibited and shall subject an
employee to immediate discipline:
      (1)   The unlawful buying, selling, transportation, possession, providing
of alcohol while on duty;
      (2)   Use of alcohol during the four hours before reporting for duty;
      (3)   Reporting for normal duty or remaining on duty to perform work with
an alcohol concentration of 0.02% or greater; or
      (4)   Use of alcohol during eight hours following an accident or until he
or she undergoes a post accident test.
   (B)   Employees found to have an alcohol concentration of 0.02% or greater,
but less than 0.04%, shall immediately be removed from their duties, and shall
not perform safety sensitive functions, including driving, for a period of 24
hours following the alcohol test. The employee shall receive a written
reprimand which indicates any further violations of the policy will result in
the employee’s dismissal.
   (C)   Employees found to have an alcohol concentration of greater than 0.04%
shall immediately be removed from their duties and subjected to other actions
outlined in this policy, including personnel actions up to, and including
dismissal from employment.
   (D)   Failure to notify the supervisor if alcohol or a controlled substance
is ingested unintentionally or if the employee is made to ingest a controlled
substance so that appropriate medical steps may be taken to ensure the
employee’s health and safety.
   (E)   Failure to notify the supervisor of any alcohol or criminal drug
statute charge or conviction no later than five days after the charge or
conviction relating to alcohol or drug abuse or misuse. However, notification
of conviction does not insulate the employee from disciplinary action.
   (F)   An employee will not be disciplined for reporting personal use of
alcohol or prescribed medications when called to perform additional duties
outside normal work hours.
   (G)   An employee will inform his or her department head or the PA of any
therapeutic drug and/or prescription use that could adversely affect his or her
performance prior to performing any duties.
   (H)   Employees found to be in violation of the county’s substance abuse
policies are subject to appropriate personnel action, up to and including
dismissal from employment.
(2001 Code, § 31.084) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.090 DRUG PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The use of any drug is prohibited if the drug could affect job
performance, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Use of any drug, except by doctor’s prescription, and then only if
the doctor has advised the employee that the drug will not adversely affect the
employee’s ability to safely perform the duties of his or her job;
      (2)   Testing positive for drugs; or
      (3)   Refusing to take a required test.
   (B)   Failure to notify the supervisor if alcohol or a controlled substance
is ingested unintentionally or if the employee is made to ingest a controlled
substance so that appropriate medical steps may be taken to ensure the
employee’s health and safety.
   (C)   Failure to notify the supervisor of any alcohol or criminal drug
statute charge or conviction no later than five days after the charge or
conviction relating to alcohol or drug abuse or misuse. However, notification
of conviction does not insulate the employee from disciplinary action.
   (D)   An employee will not be disciplined for reporting personal use of
alcohol or prescribed medications when called to perform additional duties
outside normal work hours.
   (E)   An employee will inform his or her department head or the PA of any
therapeutic drug and/or prescription use that could adversely affect his or her
performance prior to performing any duties.
   (F)   Employees found to be in violation of the county’s substance abuse
policies are subject to appropriate personnel action, up to and including
dismissal from employment.
(2001 Code, § 31.085) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.091 PRECONDITIONS TO TESTING.
   The county shall contract with a Department of Health and Human Services’
certified laboratory. Samples to be tested shall be obtained at the place as
set by the Fiscal Court. The county will designate a medical review officer(s)
to review positive results.
(2001 Code, § 31.086) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.092 TYPES OF TESTING.
   (A)   Pre-employment testing. All offers of employment shall be made
contingent upon passing a medical review, including an alcohol and drug test.
If the test is confirmed positive for drugs or alcohol, the candidate shall be
disqualified with no further action to be taken. Job applicants who are denied
employment because of a positive test may reapply for employment after six
months. The records shall be maintained in the applicant’s confidential medical
file.
   (B)   Reasonable suspicion.
      (1)   If an employee’s work performance or behavior is indicative of
possible alcohol or drug abuse or misuse as demonstrated by the following
behaviors/symptoms, or if the employer observes specific, contemporaneous,
articulable conduct pertaining to the appearance, behavior, speech or body
odors of the employee that indicate that he or she may be in violation of this
policy, an appropriately trained supervisor, with the concurrence of the PA,
shall require the employee to submit to a breath test or urinalysis.
      (2)   The following conditions, which shall not be construed to be all
inclusive, are signs of possible alcohol or drug abuse:
         (a)   Abnormally dilated or constricted pupils;
         (b)   Glazed stare;
         (c)   Redness of eyes;
         (d)   Change of speech;
         (e)   Constant sniffing;
         (f)   Increased absences;
         (g)   Redness under nose;
         (h)   Sudden weight loss;
         (i)   Needle marks;
         (j)   Change in personality;
         (k)   Increased appetite for sweets;
         (l)   Forgetfulness;
         (m)   Performance faltering;
         (n)   Poor concentration;
         (o)   Borrowing money from co-workers;
         (p)   Seeking an advance in pay or other unusual display of need for
money;
         (q)   Constant fatigue or hyperactivity;
         (r)   Smell of alcohol;
         (s)   Difficulty walking;
         (t)   Excessive, unexplained absences;
         (u)   Dulled mental processes; and
         (v)   Slowed reaction rate.
      (3)   Supervisors must notify the PA or the Judge/Executive, or the
appropriate constitutional officer if they have reason to believe one or more
of the above listed conditions is indicated, and that the substance abuse is
affecting an employee’s performance or behavior in any manner. Job performance
and policy violations shall be specific.
      (4)   The PA will arrange to observe or talk to the employee. If the PA
and supervisor concur on reasonable suspicion, the PA shall immediately arrange
for the specified test.
      (5)   The employee shall be required to release any evidence relating to
the observation for further testing. Failure to comply may subject the employee
to subsequent discipline or suspension. All confiscated evidence will be
receipted for with signatures of both the receiving supervisor and the
provider.
      (6)   If, upon questioning by the supervisor, the employee admits to use
but requests assistance, the PA may arrange for assessment by the substance
abuse professional (SAP). Reassignment to job duties will be conditioned on
completing the SAP’s guidelines and return to work testing.
      (7)   The supervisor shall, within 24 hours, or before the results of the
alcohol or controlled substance testings are released, document the particular
facts related to the behavior or performance problems and present documentation
to the PA.
      (8)   The PA shall cause the removal of the employee from county property
and ensure that the employee is transported to the collection site. Under no
circumstances will the employee be allowed to drive any county vehicle until a
confirmed negative test result is received.
      (9)   All supervisors will receive a minimum of one hour of training on
alcohol abuse and one hour of training on drug abuse to assist them in
identifying abuse behavioral characteristics.
   (C)   Post-accident testing.
      (1)   An accident is an incident which results in the death of a human
being or bodily injury to a person who, as a result of the injury, immediately
received medical treatment away from the scene of an accident or which has had
a vehicle towed from the scene of an accident. The county may require testing
on minor accidents if there is reasonable suspicion that alcohol or drugs were
involved.
      (2)   All employees are required to provide a breath test and a urine
specimen to be tested within eight hours after an accident. The employee shall
remain readily available for testing or he or she will be deemed to have
refused testing. If the employee is seriously injured and cannot provide a
specimen at the time of the accident, he or she shall provide the necessary
authorization for obtaining the hospital reports and other documents that would
indicate whether there were any controlled substances in his or her system.
Adherence by the employee to the post-accident testing requirements is a
condition of continued employment with the county.
   (D)   Random selection.
      (1)   In addition to employees required to be randomly tested by the
Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991, the county shall conduct
mandatory random testing for all employees who perform safety sensitive
functions, as follows.
         (a)   A selection process which removes discretion in selection shall
be adopted by the county.
         (b)   The random testing shall be reasonably spaced over a 12-month
period.
         (c)   Once notified, the employee shall immediately proceed to the
collection site. The employee shall not be notified prior to duty that he or
she is to be tested. If the employee is not scheduled to work within 72 hours,
he or she shall not be randomly tested until drawn again.
      (2)   For the purposes of this policy, the county has determined the
following positions impact the safety and well being of the community, and are
therefore subject to mandatory random testing:
         (a)   Employees required to have commercial driver’s licenses;
         (b)   Deputy Jailer;
         (c)   Deputy Sheriff Bailiff; and
         (d)   Road Department employees that drive heavy equipment on public
highways.
   (E)   Return-to-duty testing. Before an employee returns to duty after
engaging in conduct prohibited by this policy, the employee shall undergo a
return to duty alcohol test with a result of less than a 0.02% breath alcohol
concentration (BAC) or receive a confirmed negative result from a controlled
substance urinalysis test.
(2001 Code, § 31.087) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.093 COLLECTION OF SAMPLES; LABORATORY ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Breath alcohol testing shall be conducted at a prearranged location by
a qualified breath alcohol technician according to 49 C.F.R. part 40
procedures. Refusal to provide breath will be considered a positive test and
the employee will be removed from a safety-sensitive function until resolved.
   (B)   Specimen collection shall be conducted in accordance with applicable
state and federal law. The collection procedures will be designed to ensure the
security and integrity of the specimen provided by each employee, and those
procedures will strictly follow federal chain-of-custody guidelines. Every
effort shall be made to maintain the dignity of each employee submitting
specimen for analysis in accordance with these procedures.
   (C)   Only a laboratory certified by the Department of Health and Human
Services (DHHS) to perform urinalysis for the detection of the presence of
controlled substances will be retained by the county. The laboratory will be
required to maintain strict compliance with federally approved chain of custody
procedures, quality control, maintenance and scientific analytical
methodologies.
   (D)   (1)   Following a determination that an employee is in need of
assistance in resolving problems associated with alcohol misuse and/or use of
controlled substances, the county shall see that the employee is subject to
unannounced follow-up testing as directed by the SAP, as required by 382 C.F.R.
§ 605(c)(2)(ii).
      (2)   Follow-up alcohol testing shall be conducted only when the employee
is performing safety- sensitive functions, just before the employee is to
perform or just after the employee has performed safety sensitive functions.
(2001 Code, § 31.088) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.094 CONSEQUENCES; APPEAL OF RESULTS.
   (A)   Alcohol and drug abuse may not only threaten the safety and
productivity of all employees, but causes serious individual health
consequences.
   (B)   (1)   An employee testing positive for alcohol or drug use is subject
to disciplinary action. Refusal to submit to testing will also be considered a
positive test. Refusal includes not providing a breath or urine sample as
directed, neglecting to sign appropriate control forms, using alcohol within
eight hours of an accident unless a test sample has been taken earlier or
engaging in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process.
      (2)   Any employee testing positive for the presence of a controlled
substance will be contacted by the county’s Medical Review Officer (MRO). The
employee will be allowed to explain and present medical documentation to
explain any permissible use of drugs. All discussions between the employee and
the MRO will be confidential. If medically supportable reasons exist to explain
the positive result, the MRO will report the test result to the county as
negative.
      (3)   Within 72 hours after the employee has been notified of a positive
test result for drugs, he or she may request a retest of the split sample. The
signed request will be provided to the MRO in writing, who will then initiate
the new laboratory analysis. If a different result is detected by the
subsequent laboratory, the test will be voided by the MRO and the PA will be
notified. A new sample may be requested as appropriate.
   (C)   The employee may seek assistance from a substance abuse professional
who, in conjunction with the MRO, will take appropriate action, which may
include diagnosing the problem and recommending treatment.
      (1)   If the employee acknowledges a substance abuse problem, requests
assistance and completes the substance abuse treatment recommended by the
substance abuse professional (SAP), these may be considered to be mitigating
factors.
      (2)   The employee’s successful completion of an approved treatment
program may be a condition of continued employment.
      (3)   An employee shall be required to submit to at least six unannounced
drug tests during the first year and follow-up testing may be conducted for up
to 60 months. Failure to adhere to this condition is grounds for immediate
termination.
      (4)   Nothing in these policies shall be deemed as precluding the county
from dismissing any employee who has been found to be in violation of these
policies. There is no express responsibility to retain an employee, or to
provide assistance beyond referral information regarding rehabilitative
resources.
(2001 Code, § 31.089) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.095 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   (1)   Under no circumstance, unless required or authorized by law,
shall alcohol or drug testing information or results for any employee or
applicant be released without written request from the applicable employee.
      (2)   Employees are entitled, upon written request, to obtain copies of
any records pertaining to his or her use of alcohol or controlled substances,
including any records pertaining to his or her alcohol or controlled substances
tests. The county shall have three working days to provide copies.
   (B)   Collection of breath and urine samples shall always be documented and
sealed with a tamper- proof system in the presence of the employee to ensure
that all tests can be correctly traced to the employee. Drug and alcohol test
analysis from the DHHS approved laboratory shall be forwarded directly to the
MRO for confidential record-keeping.
(2001 Code, § 31.090) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.096 RECORD RETENTION.
   The county shall maintain records of its alcohol misuse and controlled
substance abuse prevention programs in a secured location, as prescribed by 382
C.F.R. part 401.
(2001 Code, § 31.091) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
§ 34.110 RETIREMENT.
   The county participates in the county employees retirement system, including
its standard unused sick leave program. Under this program, eligible employees
(employees must work 100 hours per month to participate in retirement) who
retire with the county will have up to six months of unused sick time purchased
by the county to add to their length of service. The employee may purchase
additional sick leave towards his or her retirement. Details regarding this
program may be obtained from the county’s personnel officer.
(2001 Code, § 31.105) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Retirement, see KRS 61.510 et seq. and KRS 78.510 et seq.
§ 34.111 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   Any full-time employees occupying regular position(s) shall receive
time off at the regular rate of pay for each holiday. Holidays include:
      (1)   January 1, New Year’s Day;
      (2)   The third Monday in January, Martin Luther King Jr. Day;
      (3)   The second Monday in February, President’s Day;
      (4)   Good Friday;
      (5)   The last Monday in May, Memorial Day;
      (6)   July 4, Independence Day;
      (7)   September 1, Labor Day;
      (8)   November 11, Veteran’s Day;
      (9)   The fourth Thursday in November, Thanksgiving Day, and the
following Friday;
      (10)   December 25, Christmas Day, and one additional day as designated
by the Fiscal Court or appropriate constitutional officer;
      (11)   December 31, New Year’s Eve; and
      (12)   Presidential election day.
   (B)   When any holiday listed above falls on a Saturday, it will be observed
on the preceding Friday. When any holiday listed above falls on a Sunday, it
shall be observed on the following Monday.
   (C)   In addition to the above, any day may be designated as a holiday by
proclamation of the Judge/Executive, with the approval of the Fiscal Court or
the appropriate constitutional officer.
   (D)   Holiday pay shall be pay at the regular rate.
   (E)   When it is essential for a nonexempt employee to work on a holiday,
the employee shall receive holiday pay in addition to regular pay, or be
allowed to take another day(s) off, as deemed appropriate by the Judge/
Executive.
(2001 Code, § 31.106) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.112 VACATION LEAVE.
   (A)   (1)   All employees occupying regular full-time positions shall be
entitled to vacation leave on the following schedule:
         (a)   Initial employment through 19 years: 12 working days; and
         (b)   Twenty years and thereafter: 17 working days.
      (2)   WORKING DAY, as used in this policy, shall be established by the
normal working schedule of the employee. For example, Road Department
employees’ (non-office) normal workday is eight hours, while executive office
employees’ normal workday is seven hours.
   (B)   Vacation leave shall be accrued and awarded monthly.
   (C)   No employee shall be allowed to utilize accrued vacation leave until
the employee has successfully completed the 90-day introductory period.
Employees on a promotional introductory period may take accrued vacation leave.
   (D)   (1)   Vacation leave of a week or more must be requested at least one
month in advance. Vacation leave of less than one week must be requested at
least three days in advance. If extenuating circumstances exist, the employee
may be allowed to utilize vacation leave with less than the required
notification if approved by the Judge/Executive.
      (2)   Vacation leave may be disapproved if the employee’s services are
required at the requested time.
   (E)   Upon termination of employment, employees shall be compensated for
unused vacation leave.
   (F)   Former employees who are rehired by the county, whose past employment
was voluntarily terminated, or who were terminated for reasonable cause, shall
be considered new employees for calculation of vacation leave.
   (G)   Former employees who are rehired by the county, whose past employment
was involuntarily terminated without reasonable cause, shall be given vacation
leave based on total length of service with the county.
   (H)   Upon receiving approval of their supervisor, employees absent because
of sickness, injury or disability may use accrued vacation leave only after
accrued sick leave has been exhausted.
   (I)   Vacation leave shall be taken in increments of not less than one hour.
   (J)   Employees shall be allowed to carryover a maximum of 12 days’ vacation
leave from year to year. Leave in excess of this amount shall be forfeited
without pay.
   (K)   The personnel officer or his or her designee shall ensure that
accurate records are kept for vacation leave allowance, vacation leave taken
and accrued leave for each employee.
(2001 Code, § 31.107) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.113 SICK LEAVE; FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT.
   (A)   Sick leave is provided so that an employee will not be seriously
handicapped financially if he or she is unable to work because of illness. Sick
leave abuse may be cause for dismissal.
      (1)   All employees occupying full-time regular positions shall receive
one day of sick leave credit for each month of service, which shall be credited
monthly. For purposes of this policy, an employee’s workday is considered to be
the same as stated in the county’s vacation leave policy.
      (2)   For accrual purposes, employees reporting to work on or before the
fifteenth day of the month shall accrue the full amount of sick leave for that
month. Employees reporting to work on the sixteenth day of the month or later
shall not accrue sick leave until the following month.
      (3)   (a)   Sick leave credit may be utilized by employees when they are
unable to perform their duties because of sickness, injury, childbirth, when
they are quarantined, or when their absence from work is required due to
sickness in the immediate family.
         (b)   All foreseeable leave for such purposes shall require specific
prior written approval of the department head.
         (c)   In the event of sick leave is taken for three consecutive days
for any purpose, the department head or personnel officer may require a
certificate from a medical doctor giving information as to the circumstances
involved.
      (4)   (a)   Consistent with the Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978,
pregnancy/childbirth shall be treated as a temporary disability, and is
eligible for use of personal leave.
            1.   The ability of the employee to return to work shall be
determined by the employee’s physician, consistent with the individual medical
needs of the employee.
            2.   Before returning to work the employee must provide
documentation from the physician indicating the employee may return to his or
her job.
         (b)   Employees absent from work due to pregnancy/childbirth may
utilize vacation leave after all personal leave has been utilized.
            1.   Leave beyond the employee’s accrued leave balances shall be
leave without pay. During leave due to pregnancy/childbirth, vacation days
shall continue to accrue and shall be credited if the employee returns to work.
            2.   Insurance benefits will continue to be paid for full-time
employees who provide written certification of their intent to return to work
following childbirth.
            3.   An employee who is not planning to return to work following
childbirth is requested to submit a timely resignation to allow the county’s
staffing needs to be met.
         (c)   To the extent possible, an employee shall submit his or her
written request for leave in advance, indicating the approximate dates of
absence from work, and his or her anticipated return to work.
      (5)   When an employee takes sick leave, his or her immediate supervisor
shall be informed of the fact and the reason(s) thereof no later than one hour
after the start of the employee’s work shift. Failure to notify the supervisor
may be cause for disallowing the use of sick leave during the period of
absence.
      (6)   Absence for a part of a day that is chargeable to sick leave shall
be charged proportionately in an amount not smaller than one hour.
      (7)   Absences on account of sickness, injury or disability in excess of
that authorization for the purposes may, at the request of the employee, and
with the approval of the department head, be charged to vacation leave credit.
      (8)   Employees shall be allowed to accrue an unlimited number of sick
leave hours. Upon termination of employment with the county, other than
retirement, unused sick leave shall be forfeited without pay. Employees that
retire under the county employees retirement system shall be allowed to utilize
unused sick time consistent with the governing regulations of the standard
unused sick leave program.
      (9)   Former employees who are rehired by the county, whose past
employment was involuntarily terminated without reasonable cause, shall be
given credit for sick leave hours that were previously forfeited without pay.
      (10)   The personnel officer or his or her designee shall keep records of
sick leave allowance, sick leave taken and balance of sick leave allowance for
individual employees. An employee fraudulently obtaining sick leave, or a
department head falsely certifying sick leave allowance for absence from work,
may be suspended or dismissed. Abuse of sick leave shall be cause for
disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
   (B)   (1)   The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 requires “covered”
employers with at least 50 employees to provide “eligible” employees with up to
12 work weeks of unpaid, job-protected leave in a 12-month period for specified
family and medical reasons.
      (2)   The FMLA applies to all public agencies, including state, local and
federal employers. Thus, the county is a “covered” employer as defined in the
legislation.
      (3)   To be eligible for FMLA benefits, an employee must:
         (a)   Work for a covered employer;
         (b)   Have worked for the employer for a total of 12 months;
         (c)   Have worked at least 1,250 hours over the previous 12 months;
and
         (d)   Work at a location in the United States or in any territory or
possession of the United States where at least 50 employees are employed by the
employer within 75 miles.
      (4)   (a)   The county will grant an eligible employee up to a total of
12 work weeks of unpaid leave in a 12-month period, beginning from the date an
employees’ first FMLA leave begins, for one or more of the following reasons:
            1.   For the birth and care of the newborn child of the employee;
            2.   For placement with the employee of a son or daughter for
adoption or foster care;
            3.   To care for an immediate family member (spouse, child or
parent) with a serious health condition; or
            4.   To take medical leave when the employee is unable to work
because of a serious health condition.
         (b)   In the event the county employs both a husband and the wife, the
aggregate amount of leave allowed for purposes of childbirth or adoption, or
taking care of a sick parent is no more than 12 work weeks during any 12-month
period.
      (5)   In context of this policy, a SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION means an
illness, injury impairment or physical or mental condition that involves one of
the following:
         (a)   Inpatient care (i.e., an overnight stay) in a hospital, hospice
or residential medical care facility, including any period of incapacity or
subsequent treatment in connection with or consequent to the inpatient care;
         (b)   A period of incapacity of more than three consecutive days
(including any subsequent treatment or period of incapacity relating to the
same condition), that also involves:
            1.   Treatment two or more times by a health care provider, by a
nurse of physician’s assistant under direct supervision of a health care
provider, or by a provider of health care services (e.g., physical therapist)
under orders of, or on referral by, a health care provider; or
            2.   Treatment by a health care provider on at least one occasion
which results in a regimen of continuing treatment under the supervision of the
health care provider.
         (c)   Any period of incapacity due to pregnancy or for prenatal care;
         (d)   A chronic condition which:
            1.   Requires periodic visits for treatment by a health care
provider, or by a nurse or physician’s assistant under direct supervision of a
health care provider;
            2.   Continues over an extended period of time (including recurring
episodes of a single underlying condition); and
            3.   May cause episodic rather than a continuing period of
incapacity (e.g., asthma, diabetes, epilepsy and the like).
         (e)   A period of incapacity which is permanent or long-term due to a
condition for which treatment may not be effective; (The employee or family
member must be under the continuing supervision of, but need not be receiving
active treatment by, a health care provider. Examples include Alzheimer’s, a
severe stroke or the terminal stages of a disease.)
         (f)   Any period of absence to receive multiple treatments (including
any period of recovery therefrom) by a health care provider or by a provider of
health care services under orders of, or on referral by, a health care
provider, either for restorative surgery after an accident or other injury; or
for a condition that would likely result in a period of incapacity of more than
three consecutive days in the absence of medical intervention or treatment,
such as cancer (chemotherapy, radiation and the like), severe arthritis
(physical therapy) and kidney disease (dialysis).
      (6)   Employees are required to give 30 days’ notice of the need for
leave when the need for leave is foreseeable. If the need for leave is not
foreseeable, the employee must give as much notice as is reasonably practical.
An employee’s right to leave for a birth or placement for adoption or foster
care expires at the end of the 12-month period beginning on the date of the
birth or placement.
      (7)   Employees are required to give 30 days’ notice unless there is a
medical emergency or unforeseen events. Where leave is necessary for planned
medical treatment, the employee is required to make a reasonable effort to
schedule the treatment so as not to unduly disrupt the county’s operations.
      (8)   The 12 weeks’ leave may be taken consecutively, or intermittently
if medically necessary. Employees needing intermittent FMLA leave must attempt
to schedule their leave so as to not disrupt the county’s operations. The
county reserves the right to assign the employee to an alternative position
with equivalent pay and benefits during the period of intermittent leave if the
position better accommodates the employee’s need for FMLA leave.
      (9)   (a)   The county shall require that a claim for medical leave be
supported by a medical care provider’s certification. To comply with this
requirement, any employee requesting the leave will be provided with a copy of
Form WH-380, Certification of Health Care Provider, developed and approved
(March 1995) by the United States Department of Labor. In the event the county
has reason to doubt the adequacy of the medical certification, the county may
seek a second, non-binding opinion at the county’s expense.
         (b)   If that opinion differs from the opinion obtained by the
employee, a third binding option can be obtained, at the county’s expense, from
a health care provider agreed upon by both the employee and the county.
      (10)   (a)   It is the policy of the county that employees shall be
required to substitute accumulated paid leave for FMLA leave. Respectively, the
employee shall utilize sick leave and vacation leave in place of unpaid leave.
         (b)   To the extent the employee does not have 12 weeks of accumulated
leave, the remainder shall be unpaid leave.
      (11)   During the period of an employee’s FMLA leave, the county will
continue to provide all health care benefits that are provided as part of the
employee’s employment.
      (12)   (a)   Upon return to work from FMLA leave, an employee shall be
restored to the position he or she held when the leave began, or to an
equivalent position with equivalent pay, benefits and other terms and
conditions of employment. In instances where an employee has taken FMLA leave
due to personal illness, the employee will be required to provide certification
from a medical care provider of the employee’s fitness to return to work.
         (b)   The county expressly reserves the right to deny the previous job
to “key employees” in instances where the restoration would result in
substantial and grievous economic injury to the county. KEY EMPLOYEE is defined
as a salaried FMLA-eligible employee who is among the highest 10% of all county
employees.
(2001 Code, § 31.108) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.114 FUNERAL LEAVE.
   (A)   Employees occupying regular full-time positions shall be granted three
paid working days off in case of death in the immediate family.
   (B)   IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall include parents, grandparents, spouse,
brothers, sisters, children, immediate in-laws, step-family/foster family
members of the same relation.
   (C)   In the event an employee desires to extend leave beyond three working
days due to a death in the immediate family, the employee may use sick leave,
vacation leave or time without pay upon receiving approval from the Judge/
Executive.
(2001 Code, § 31.109) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.115 SPECIAL LEAVE.
   (A)   The Judge/Executive may authorize special leaves of absence with or
without pay for employees occupying regular positions for any period deemed
beneficial to the county.
   (B)   The Judge/Executive may authorize an employee to be absent without pay
for personal reasons for a period or periods not exceeding ten working days in
any calendar year.
(2001 Code, § 31.110) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.116 MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   (1)   Any employee occupying a full-time regular position with the
county who is a member of the National Guard or any reserve component of the
Armed Forces of the United States, or of the Reserve Corps of the United States
Public Health Service, shall be entitled to military leave for attending
mandatory training, without loss of pay.
      (2)   In any calendar year, such employees shall be entitled to paid
leave as follows:
         (a)   For intervals not exceeding 15 calendar days or ten working days
if the employee’s position is based on a five-day work week;
         (b)   Twelve days if the employee’s position is based on a six-day
work week; and
         (c)   Fifteen days if the employee’s position is based upon a seven-
day work week.
   (B)   An employee serving an introductory period that is required to attend
mandatory military training shall have the length of the introductory period
extended by the time required for military training.
   (C)   A request for military leave must be presented in writing to the
personnel officer not less than two weeks prior to the beginning of the leave
period.
(2001 Code, § 31.111) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.117 VOTING LEAVE.
   (A)   Any county employee entitled to vote at any election in this state
shall, if he or she has made application for leave prior to the day of
election, be entitled to absent himself or herself from any services or
employment of the county for a period of four hours on the day of the election,
between the time of opening and closing the polls. Voting leave shall be unpaid
leave.
   (B)   The county maintains the authority to specify the hours during which
the employee may take voting leave.
   (C)   Any employee who requests voting leave, but fails to vote, shall be
subject to personnel action, up to and including termination from employment.
(2001 Code, § 31.112) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.118 JURY DUTY OR COURT LEAVE.
   (A)   (1)   In the event an employee is requested to serve on a jury, he or
she shall be compensated at the normal rate of pay while serving on jury duty.
      (2)   However, the employee shall be required to provide any compensation
received for his or her court service to the county.
   (B)   All employees serving on jury duty shall be absent from work only
during the times required by the courts, and shall provide their supervisor
with documentation from the court verifying the employee’s participation.
   (C)   (1)   County employees required to appear in court in a case related
to their employment shall be paid at the same rate of pay they normally
receive.
      (2)   When court time and normal work hours exceed 40 hours in a specific
work week, the overtime rate shall be paid.
   (D)   An employee involved in a personal case, either as a plaintiff or
defendant, in a suit not resulting from duties performed on behalf of the
county, may be granted leave, provided the leave is deducted from the
employee’s accrued vacation time or classified as leave without pay.
(2001 Code, § 31.113) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.119 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Health insurance.
      (1)   A medical plan is available to all full-time county employees upon
employment with the county. The county shall pay the premium for single
coverage for each employee. The employee may purchase family coverage at group
rates.
      (2)   All participating employees are subject to the terms and conditions
of the group insurance plans provided by the county.
   (B)   Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA). The
Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act requires employers sponsoring
group health plans to offer employees and certain eligible dependents the
opportunity to purchase a temporary extension of health coverage, at group
rates, in certain instances when coverage under the plan would otherwise end.
The following information is intended to give employees of the county
information regarding their rights and obligations under this federal
legislation.
   (C)   Qualifying events. Employees and eligible dependents provided health
insurance by the county are entitled to purchase continuation coverage if a
“qualifying event,” as described below, occurs:
      (1)   An employee and his or her eligible dependents can purchase up to
18 months of COBRA coverage if the employee (and his or her dependents) lose
health coverage as a result of the employee terminating employment (other than
as a result of gross misconduct) or reducing the employee’s hours of
employment; or
      (2)   An employee’s eligible dependents can purchase up to 36 months of
COBRA, coverage if the dependents lose health coverage because of the
employee’s death, divorce/legal separation or entitlement to Medicare; or
because the dependent ceases to be an eligible dependent under the plan.
   (D)   Eligible dependent. A dependent is eligible to purchase COBRA coverage
if the dependent was covered under the group plan on the day before a COBRA
event and will lose coverage as a result of the COBRA event. Each affected
employee and dependent can make a separate election whether or not to purchase
COBRA coverage. An employee or dependent cannot, however, elect COBRA if he or
she was entitled to receive Medicare on the day before the COBRA event.
   (E)   Employer notification of employee/dependent eligibility. Upon an
employee being hired into a position that is provided health insurance by the
county, the employee shall be provided notification of the COBRA program and
its applicability to the employee. Additionally, within 14 days of a qualifying
event, the county will provide the employee and eligible dependents with
notification of the opportunity to purchase COBRA coverage.
   (F)   Timeframe for selecting coverage. The deadline for making a COBRA
election is 60 days after the later of the date the required COBRA notice is
sent or the date coverage would otherwise end if COBRA coverage is not elected.
   (G)   Premium for COBRA coverage. Employees or eligible dependents who elect
to purchase COBRA coverage will be charged 102% of the cost of providing the
coverage. Under certain circumstances, employees who are determined by the
Social Security Administration to be disabled when their employment is
terminated are entitled to extend their coverage from 18 months to 29 months.
In such cases, the premium for the additional nine months of coverage may be as
much as 150% of the cost of providing coverage.
   (H)   Payment of premium. The first premium payment must be made within 45
days after the date the employee or dependent elects to purchase COBRA
coverage. Beginning with the second month after the election date, all premiums
must be paid on a monthly basis and each monthly premium is due on the first
day of the month. Payments can be paid no later than the thirtieth day of the
month.
   (I)   Termination of coverage. The COBRA coverage period will end on the
first to occur of the following dates:
      (1)   The date the 18-, 29- or 36-month maximum coverage period ends;
      (2)   The date the employer terminates all group health plans;
      (3)   The first day an employee or dependent fails to timely pay the
COBRA premiums;
      (4)   The date the employee or dependent is covered under another group,
health plan, unless the other group plan excludes or limits coverage for a
preexisting condition affecting the employee or dependent; or
      (5)   The first date the employee or dependent is entitled to Medicare
benefits.
   (J)   Workers’ compensation insurance.
      (1)   Workers’ compensation insurance provides medical and
hospitalization expense benefits as well as partial payment in lieu of salary
for workers injured on the job. The county pays 100% of this form of insurance.
      (2)   Employees receiving benefits from the worker’s compensation program
shall be allowed to utilize accrued sick leave and accrued vacation leave to
make up the difference between the employee’s regular compensation and the
compensation received under the program.
   (K)   Unemployment insurance. All employees are covered under this program.
The county pays 100% of the cost for this coverage. An individual who
terminates his or her employment with the county may or may not be eligible to
receive payments under this program, depending upon the circumstances involved
in the termination.
   (L)   Social security. The county and the employee both contribute to the
Social Security program, at rates specified by the U.S. Congress.
   (M)   Liability insurance. The county maintains comprehensive liability
insurance for all employees.
   (N)   Life insurance. The county provides regular full-time employees with a
life insurance policy containing a death benefit of $10,000.
   (O)   Disability insurance. The county pays 100% of the cost for a
disability policy for regular full- time employees.
(2001 Code, § 31.114) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.120 DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
   County employees may elect to participate in a deferred compensation
program. All costs related to participation in this program are the
responsibility of the employee.
(2001 Code, § 31.115) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
§ 34.121 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE; CAREER DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The county may pay for training and development classes for its
employees in an effort to enhance their professional and personal growth, and
to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the county’s programs and
operations.
   (B)   Requests for training must be made in advance and approved by the
Judge/Executive. The county’s ability to provide for training will depend upon
the availability of funds. The assistance will be determined annually on an
individual basis, and in a consistent and fair manner.
   (C)   Employees will be reimbursed for pre-authorized travel expenses
incurred in the performance of their work, but not for commuting to and from
the workplace. Any costs incurred should be the most economically consistent
with the county’s best interest.
      (1)   Any employee of the county incurring expenses for prior approved
county related business shall be reimbursed as follows.
         (a)   Official travel in privately owned vehicles shall be reimbursed
at the rate currently paid by the commonwealth to state employees for use of
their private vehicle.
         (b)   Air travel shall not be first class unless other rates are
unavailable. Under reasonable circumstances, or for necessary expediency, the
Judge/Executive may authorize other travel means.
         (c)   Lodging shall be reimbursable at the actual expense. Receipts
must be provided for all lodging.
         (d)   Conference and registration fees shall be approved in advance by
the Judge/Executive, and may be prepaid when necessary and appropriate.
         (e)   Use of rental vehicles must be approved in advance, or
justification provided that shows the use of the vehicle was more feasible than
other types of available transportation.
         (f)   An employee shall be reimbursed for meals at the following rates
if the employee’s travel requires overnight stay, or if travel outside the
county is required during specified hours, as follows.
            1.   Breakfast: travel must begin prior to 6:30 a.m. and continue
through 9:00 a.m.
            2.   Lunch: travel must begin prior to 11:00 a.m. and continue
through 2:00 p.m.
            3.   Dinner: travel must begin prior to 5:00 p.m. and continue
through 9:00 p.m.
            4.   Allowances for meals are as follows:
               a.   Breakfast: $6;
               b.   Lunch: $7; and
               c.   Dinner: $14.
            5.   No reimbursement shall be allowed if a meal is included as
part of a registration fee, or provided without charge. The Fiscal Court or
appropriate constitutional officer may authorize reimbursement at rates higher
than the amount specified in this policy if it is determined that the location
of the employee’s travel results in unavoidable meal expenses which exceed the
allowed reimbursement.
         (g)   Telephone calls for the purpose of county business are
reimbursable at the actual rate.
         (h)   Other necessary expenses that were unforeseeable prior to travel
may be approved by the Judge/Executive upon presentation of documentation of
the need for the expense.
      (2)   Receipts for all expenditures shall be obtained and attached to the
request for reimbursement, which must be completed and submitted within 30 days
of the expense being incurred. All requests for reimbursement shall be signed
by the supervisor.
(2001 Code, § 31.116) (Ord. passed 1-14-2000)
CHAPTER 35: TAX, FEES AND FINANCE
Section
   
35.01   911 surcharge
   
35.02   Court costs, filing fees, collections
   
35.03   Fee pooling system
§ 35.01 911 SURCHARGE.
   (A)   The 911 surcharge is changed, modified and increased to the sum of
$2.50 on each phone line in the county.
   (B)   In all other respects, any and all ordinances regarding 911 service or
emergency communications shall be unchanged and unaltered.
(Ord. passed 8-28-2008)
§ 35.02 COURT COSTS, FILING FEES, COLLECTIONS.
   The ordinance of July 11, 2000, is hereby re-enacted, in whole, and shall
remain in effect, until repealed by the County Fiscal Court. The Fiscal Court
hereby additionally references, herein, statutes authorizing this section,
namely, KRS 23A.220 pertaining to Circuit Courts, KRS 24A.185 pertaining to
District Courts, and KRS 64.091, pertaining to Sheriffs.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2002)
§ 35.03 FEE POOLING SYSTEM.
   That from and after January 1, 2023:
   (A)   All net income and net fees from the office of the County Sheriff
shall be paid over the County Treasurer, such payment to be on a monthly basis
no later than the twentieth day for each month for the net income and fees
collected in the preceding month; and
   (B)   NET INCOME AND NET FEES. All income and all fees collected less only
approved transmittals to governmental agencies and refunds to customer; and
   (C)   The expenses of and the expenditures of the Office of Sheriff shall be
paid by the County Treasurer in accordance with policies and procedures adopted
by County Fiscal Court. Provided however, the County Sheriff shall certify to
the County Treasurer for payment each pay period, the names and hours of each
employee of their respective offices who worked during such pay period and the
Treasurer shall pay such payrolls as presented.
   (D)   The Sheriff shall draw no checks upon the fee account other than the
check to pay over the net income and net fees of the fee account to the County
Treasurer and for approved transmittals and refunds as referenced herein; and
   (E)   That the ordinary bills of the County Sheriff shall not be paid until
approved by the Fiscal Court; and
   (F)   No salaries or expenses of the County Sheriff or his or her employees
shall be paid if the fee Officer is delinquent in the payment of one month's
fee income. In case of delinquencies in payments by the Sheriff's Office to the
treasury of the county, salaries and expenses shall only be paid at such time
as the delinquencies have been corrected.
   (G)   All procurement requests shall be made as required by the Fiscal Court
and implemented by the County Treasurer.
(Ord. 1.24.23, passed 1-24-2023)
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
      
52.   SEWER USE
      
53.   WATER METERS; FEE
      
54.   ENERGY PROJECT ASSESSMENT DISTRICT PROGRAM
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Collection permits
   
50.02   Fees; quarterly reports
   
50.03   Garbage haulers; application
   
50.04   Off-site waste management facilities and solid waste landfills license
fee
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 COLLECTION PERMITS.
   The Solid Waste Committee Coordinator shall not enter into franchise
agreements, but from now forward shall issue collection permits which shall
provide for the collection of all residential and commercial waste in the
county.
(2001 Code, § 50.01) (Ord. passed 12-13-1994)
§ 50.02 FEES; QUARTERLY REPORTS.
   (A)   The fees charged consumers or customers for the collection services
shall not be regulated by the Solid Waste Committee.
   (B)   All haulers of residential and commercial waste, however, in the
county, shall file quarterly reports verifying the destination of all waste
collected, fee collected per customer and the amount of all waste collected.
(2001 Code, § 50.02) (Ord. passed 12-13-1994)
§ 50.03 GARBAGE HAULERS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each hauler shall file an application, be registered and obtain an
annual permit for operation from the Solid Waste Committee Coordinator. Each
permit shall cost $10.
   (B)   All haulers shall be required to obtain a permit prior to operation.
(2001 Code, § 50.03) (Ord. passed 12-13-1994) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 OFF-SITE WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITIES AND SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS LICENSE
FEE.
   (A)   Definitions.
      OFF-SITE WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. Any facility for collection, storage,
transportation, transfer, processing or treatment of solid waste, whether such
facilities are associated with facilities generating such waste or otherwise,
but does not include collection, storage, transportation, transfer, processing
or treatment activities which occur incidental to or which are not otherwise
distinguishable form a broader manufacturing operation at the site of said
operation.
      SOLID WASTE. As defined in KRS 224.1-010(3l)(a).
      SOLID WASTE LANDFILL. A waste management facility where the final
disposal of solid waste occurs, and includes a municipal solid waste disposal
facility, a contained landfill, a construction/demolition debris landfill, and
a construction/demolition landfill of one acre or less.
   (B)   License to operate an off-site waste management facility or solid
waste landfill.
      (1)   The operator of an off-site waste management facility or solid
waste landfill shall obtain a license to operate from the County Solid Waste
Coordinator. The operator shall submit an application to operate to the County
Solid Waste Coordinator. The application shall include:
         (a)   The name of the owner of the off-site waste management facility
or solid waste landfill;
         (b)   The name of the operator of the off-site waste management
facility or solid waste landfill;
         (c)   The address of the off-site waste management facility or solid
waste landfill;
         (d)   A description of the location of the off-site waste management
facility or solid waste landfill;
         (e)   A description of the solid waste activities conducted at the
off-site waste management facility or solid waste landfill.
      (2)   The operator of an off-site waste management facility or solid
waste landfill currently in operation in the county shall submit an application
to operate to the solid waste coordinator within 30 days of the effective date
of this section. The operator of a new off-site waste management facility or
solid waste landfill in the county shall submit an application to operate to
the Solid Waste Coordinator prior to commencing operation.
   (C)   License fee for an off-site waste management facility.
      (1)   An off-site waste management facility shall pay a license fee of 2%
of the gross receipts for solid waste received at the off-site waste management
facility.
      (2)   The license fee shall be paid for each calendar month. Payment of
the license fee shall be remitted to County Fiscal Court on or before the
thirtieth day following the end of the calendar month for which payment of the
license fee is made.
      (3)   A report shall be submitted with payment of the license fee,
setting forth the amount of waste received from outside of the county solid
waste management area, describing the type and source of the solid waste, and
describing the method of determining the amount of the license fee being paid.
   (D)   License fee for a solid waste landfill.
      (1)   A solid waste landfill shall pay a license fee of 5% of the gross
receipts for solid waste received at the landfill for disposal which originates
from inside of the county solid waste management area. A solid waste landfill
shall pay a license fee of 6.25% of the gross receipts for solid waste received
at the landfill for disposal which originates from outside of the county solid
waste management area.
      (2)   The license fee shall be paid for each calendar month. Payment of
the license fee shall be remitted to County Fiscal Court on or before the
thirtieth day following the end of the calendar month for which payment of the
license fee is made.
      (3)   A report shall be submitted with payment of the license fee,
setting forth the amount of waste received from inside and the amount received
from outside of the county solid waste management area, describing the type and
source of the solid waste, and describing the method of determining the amount
of the license fee being paid.
(Ord. 9.22.20.1, passed 9-22-2020)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual, business or municipal entity who engages in the occupation
or business of solid waste collection, transportation or disposal within the
boundaries of the county without a permit issued by the Solid Waste Committee
shall be guilty of a violation punishable by a fine of not more than $100.
(2001 Code, § 50.99) (Ord. passed 12-13-1994)
CHAPTER 51: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Fire Chief’s responsibility
   
51.03   DES Director/Emergency Manager responsibility
   
51.04   Hazardous Materials Coordinator
   
51.05   Preplanning required
   
51.06   Handler or user responsibility
   
51.07   Response
   
51.08   Cost recovery
   
51.09   Enforcement
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context
clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended:
   DISASTER AND EMERGENCY SERVICES (DES) DIRECTOR and/or EMERGENCY MANAGER and/
or EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR. That official appointed by the Mayor and
County Judge/Executive pursuant to KRS 39.415.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE PERSONNEL. Any public employee, including but not limited
to, any firefighter or emergency response personnel who responds to any
condition caused in whole or part by a hazard that jeopardizes or could
jeopardize public health or safety of the environment. EMERGENCY RESPONSE
PERSONNEL may assume the role of INCIDENT COMMANDER.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of the City of Stanford; City of Crab Orchard;
City of Hustonville or the County of Lincoln or one of the Lincoln County Fire
Protection Districts or the next in command.
   HANDLER. Any person who transports or stores a hazardous substance(s).
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COORDINATOR. The person designated by Lincoln County
Emergency Management and appointed by the Lincoln County Fiscal Court pursuant
to the Lincoln County Emergency Operations Plan.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE(S). Shall be defined as in KRS 224.1-400, as amended.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Shall be defined as in KRS 224.1-010 and supporting
regulations as amended.
   MSDS. A material safety data sheet prepared pursuant to state law or
pursuant to regulations of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of
the United States Department of Labor (if applicable).
   OWNER OR OPERATOR. Any person having ownership, control or executive
authority of a facility, vehicle or property where a hazardous substance(s) is
stored, handled or used.
   PERSON. Any individual, trust, limited liability company, firm, company,
society, corporation, joint stock company, partnership, consortium,
association, cooperation, joint venture, city, county, special district, state
or any department or agency or political subdivision thereof, United States
Government, or other commercial or legal entity.
   PREPLANNING. A joint assessment by persons storing or handling hazardous
substance(s) and the Fire Chief and/or the Hazardous Materials Coordinator and/
or Emergency Management Director of the risks associated with the hazardous
substance(s) and may include inspections, joint training and practice.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, scarping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the
environment of a hazardous substance(s) in quantities which meet or exceed the
reportable quantity amounts established by state or federal regulations.
   THREATENED RELEASE. A condition creating a substantial probability of a
release when the probability and potential extend of a release make it
reasonably necessary to take immediate action to prevent, reduce or mitigate
damages to persons, property, or the environment.
   USER. Any person who uses a hazardous substance(s).
(Ord. passed 9-15-2005; Ord. 112, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 51.02 FIRE CHIEF’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for administering and enforcing the
provisions of this chapter and shall be responsible for the city or county's
compliance with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations. The Fire
Chief shall further give full access to, and availability of, information
submitted under this chapter to emergency response personnel and other
appropriate governmental entities on a 24-hour basis. At no time will the Fire
Chief relinquish command and control of the Fire Department during an emergency
response.
(Ord. passed 9-15-2005; Ord. 112, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 51.03 DES DIRECTOR/EMERGENCY MANAGER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The DES Director is authorized and directed to coordinate and cooperate with
the Fire Chief and Hazardous Materials Coordinator on all hazardous material
responses and follow-up. He or she shall also direct and coordinate with the
local hazardous materials response and decontamination unit as necessary. He or
she shall authorize the response of other jurisdictions as needed to resolve
any incident.
(Ord. passed 9-15-2005; Ord. 112, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 51.04 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COORDINATOR.
   The Hazardous Materials Coordinator is authorized and directed to cooperate
with the Fire Chief and DES Director/Emergency Manager on all hazardous
materials responses and follow-up. He or she shall provide costs of response
and follow-up pertaining to agencies, manpower, supplies, apparatus and
equipment to the DES Director/Emergency Manager for cost recovery from the
owner/handler of the released agent. He or she shall authorize the response of
other agencies and/or jurisdictions as needed to resolve any incident.
(Ord. 112, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 51.05 PREPLANNING REQUIRED.
   Any handler or user of hazardous substances who stores or handles hazardous
materials for any length of time shall immediately notify the Fire Chief,
through the use of MSDS or other documentation, that a hazardous substance(s)
is being stored. When the storage of such substance(s) is planned to or does
exceed 30 days, the responsible person storing, handling, or using that
substance(s) shall notify the Fire Chief and shall engage in preplanning with
the Fire Chief. This section does not apply to storage of hazardous substances
at fixed facilities for less than 30 days provided those facilities comply with
the other provisions of this chapter. The 30-day time period set out in this
section continues to run as long as there is a hazardous substance(s) at the
facility and does not require any particular substance(s) to be handed or
stored for over 30 days.
(Ord. passed 9-15-2005; Ord. 112, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 51.06 HANDLER OR USER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner or operator of any facility at which a hazardous substance(s) is
handled or used shall notify the Fire Chief, through the use of a MSDS or other
documentation, of the substances being stored at the site of the owner or
operator by providing the Fire Chief with a complete inventory and location of
such hazardous substances. Such owner or operator shall also implement
emergency response plans and procedures for the mitigation of a release or
threatened release to minimize any potential harm or damage to persons,
property or the environment as may be necessary for a particular incident and
implement evacuation plans and procedures, including the immediate notice to
the Fire Department and to persons with the immediate site and adjacent
properties. Such owners or operators shall also provide training for all
employees as required by state and federal OSHA standards and regulations. Such
owners or operators shall also allow periodic inspections by the Fire Chief of
the storage site.
(Ord. passed 9-15-2005; Ord. 112, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 51.07 RESPONSE.
   The city and/or county Fire Departments are authorized to respond to and
abate the effects of any release or threatened release of hazardous substances
into the environment, pursuant to the existing preplanning agreement, when
requested to do so by the handler or user or when, in the judgment of the
incident commander, there exists an imminent hazard to human health or the
environment. The Fire Chief, or other person in charge of the incident scene,
shall authorize the response of the local hazardous materials response and
decontamination unit for any event which may exceed their ability to abate,
mitigate, or dispose of. This may be done at his or her discretion by
contacting the DES Director/Emergency Manager and/or the 911 dispatch center.
If the event exceeds the capabilities for the local hazardous materials
response and decontamination unit, then response teams from other jurisdictions
may be summoned and utilized at the direction of the local hazardous materials
response and decontamination unit commander or Hazardous Materials Coordinator
or DES Director/Emergency Manager.
(Ord. passed 9-15-2005; Ord. 112, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 51.08 COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   The DES Director/Emergency Manager may also issue invoices to recover
costs of response, recovery and abatement from those handlers and users who are
liable for the substance release or threatened release.
   (B)   Any person causing an unauthorized release of any hazardous substance
(s) or hazardous waste(s) shall be responsible for its clean-up and all
expenditures pursuant thereto.
   (C)   Any person causing an unauthorized release of any hazardous substance
(s) or hazardous waste which results in the city or county expending public
funds for the response to the release, its abatement, or the cleanup or removal
of such hazardous substance(s) or hazardous waste shall be liable to the city
or county for all recoverable costs as outlined below.
      (1)   In the event of a hazardous substance(s) release or threatened
release involving materials in transit, the shipper (carrier), the owner of the
substances, and all other persons whose activities caused or contributed to a
release or threatened release, jointly and severally, shall be responsible for
all direct costs including, but not limited to, personnel costs of the City of
Stanford; City of Crab Orchard; City of Hustonville and Lincoln County Fire
Departments and other dispatched emergency agencies and personnel responding to
the release or threatened release, replacement costs of suppliers and equipment
contaminated as a result of the incident, the cost of proper disposal of
contaminated materials, the cost of cleanup, evacuation, and administrative and
other expenses, including legal expenses, incurred in recovering these costs.
The city and/or cities and County Attorney are hereby authorized and directed
to initiate such proceedings, in the name of the City of Stanford; City of Crab
Orchard; City of Hustonville and the Lincoln County Fiscal Court in any court
having jurisdiction over such matters as are necessary to recover costs of the
city/cities or county.
      (2)   In the event of a hazardous substance(s) release or threatened
release involving a fixed facility, the operator, owner and all other persons
of the facility responsible for the presence of hazardous substances shall be
responsible for all direct costs including, but not limited to, personnel costs
of the city/cities and county Fire Departments and other dispatched emergency
agencies and personnel in responding to the release or threatened release,
including replacement of supplies and equipment contaminated as a result of the
incident, the cost of proper disposal of contaminated materials, the cost of
clean-up, evacuation, administrative and other expenses including legal
expenses, incurred in recovering these costs. The city/cities and County
Attorney are hereby authorized and directed to initiate such proceedings, in
the name of the City of Stanford; the City of Crab Orchard; the City of
Hustonville and the Lincoln County Fiscal Court in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters as are necessary to recover costs of the city/
cities or county.
      (3)   Any hazardous substance(s) or material release shall be considered
a public health hazard and for those responses made by the Stanford; Crab
Orchard; Hustonville or Lincoln County Fire Departments and other emergency
response agencies and personnel involving a fixed facility within the city/
cities or county, the city/cities or Lincoln County shall have a lien against
the property for the recoverable costs as stated hereinabove. The affidavit of
the Fire Chief shall constitute prima facial evidence of the amount of the lien
and the regularity of the proceedings and shall be recorded in the Office of
the County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest thereafter until paid. The lien created shall
take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except state, county, school
board and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial proceeding. The owner of
a property upon which a lien has been attached shall be personally liable for
the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil penalties, and other
charges and the city/cities or county shall have the same remedies as provided
for the recovery of a debt owned.
(Ord. passed 9-15-2005; Ord. 112, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 51.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Chief in cooperation with the DES Director/Emergency Manager,
will have primary responsibilities for enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Upon notification or discovery of any violation of the provisions of
this chapter, the Fire Chief or his or her next in command shall investigate
the site, and if a violation is found, issue a notice of violation to the
person responsible for the facility. This notice shall provide for immediate
abatement if a release or threatened release is occurring. This notice shall
also provide abatement periods of other violations.
(Ord. passed 9-15-2005; Ord. 112, passed 5-28-2019)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who fails to notify the Fire Chief of a release or
threatened release may be fined not more than $5,000. Each day's continuance of
any such failure or violations shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who fails to comply with any other provisions of this
chapter may be fined not more than $500. Each day's continuance of any such
failure or violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 9-15-2005; Ord. 112, passed 5-28-2019)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Standard construction specifications adopted
   
52.02   Enforcement response plan
   
52.03   Administrative regulations
Extension of Sanitary Sewer Service
   
52.15   Policy
   
52.16   Applications
   
52.17   Developed areas
   
52.18   Undeveloped areas
   
52.19   Single customers or property
Sewer Use Regulations
   
52.30   Introduction
   
52.31   Definitions
   
52.32   Use of public sewers required where available
   
52.33   Private sewage disposal where public sewers are not available
   
52.34   Building sewers and connections to the public sewer
   
52.35   Use of the public sewers
   
52.36   Pretreatment of incompatible pollutants by industrial users
   
52.37   Additional disposal requirements
   
52.38   Significant industrial user
   
52.39   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
52.40   Industrial cost recovery; user charge requirements
   
52.41   Protection from damage
   
52.42   Wastewater discharge permits and wastewater contribution
   
52.43   Application for wastewater contribution permit
   
52.44   Modifications of wastewater contribution permit
   
52.45   Conditions of permits
   
52.46   Duration of permits
   
52.47   Transfer of wastewater discharge permit
   
52.48   Compliance date report
   
52.49   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.50   Generally
   
52.51   Enforcement actions
   
52.52   Protection from accidental and slug discharges
   
52.53   Pretreatment
   
52.54   Signatory and certification requirements
Rates and Charges
   
52.65   Definitions
   
52.66   Sanitary sewage collection treatment and disposal facilities
   
52.67   Service fee
   
52.68   Repairs
   
52.69   Billing and collection procedures
   
52.70   Delinquency
   
52.71   Protection of revenue bonds
   
52.72   Cost of living adjustments
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 STANDARD CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   For the purpose of providing information and guidance to land
developers, design engineers, and contractors in the construction of water and
sewer facilities that are to become a part of the district waterworks and sewer
system, a set of standard construction specifications is hereby adopted,
approved and incorporated in this section by reference. These regulations and
procedures are to be followed by any person in the development of a residential
subdivision or shopping center, or in any development in which the developer is
requested to construct facilities that will become assets to the district’s
sewer system.
   (B)   The City of Danville Manual shall be revised from time to time to
ensure that the requirements are keep abreast with current state and federal
laws and regulations, approved construction materials and recognized
construction methods. Copies of the Manual shall be kept on file at the office
of the District Manager and shall be available for inspection by any person.
   (C)   If any section or portion of the Manual as shall from time to time be
amended or conflict with other existing ordinances heretofore enacted, the
standard construction specifications shall control and shall take priority over
any ordinance previously enacted.
   (D)   The City of Danville Manual is adopted by reference.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.02 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN.
   (A)   For the purpose of establishing procedures indicating how the
district’s wastewater system will investigate and respond to instances of
industrial user noncompliance, a plan of action called the enforcement response
plan is hereby adopted, approved and incorporated in this section by reference.
These regulations and procedures are to be followed by any industrial user and
district staff members in the resolution of any noncompliance of regulations
listed in §§
52.30 through
52.54 of this chapter.
   (B)   This Manual shall be revised from time to time to ensure compliance
with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(5), and any other state or federal regulations.
Copies of this Plan will be available for inspection by any person in the
office of the Sanitation District and Hustonville City Hall.
   (C)   If any section or portion of this Plan, as shall from time to time be
amended, conflict with other existing ordinances heretofore enacted, the
amended provisions shall control and shall take priority over any ordinance
previously enacted.
   (D)   The enforcement actions and remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive. The district may take any, all, or combination of these actions
and those actions listed in the district’s enforcement response plan against a
noncompliant user. The district may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the district is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
   (E)   The City of Danville Plan is adopted by reference.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.03 ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The sewer service utility will be operated by the District of
Hustonville or other as contracted. The contractor will be the authorized
representative of the district for all notifications and certification required
by the Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection for the
Commonwealth. The contractor will be required to maintain a Class II operator’s
certification for wastewater collection as provided by the KYDNREP Cabinet.
   (B)   The contractor will oversee the sewer system based on the operation
and maintenance manuals as follows: the City of Danville Wastewater Operation
and Maintenance Manual as adopted on October 26, 1987, and approved for the
operation of the wastewater plant, laboratory and the collection system.
   (C)   The contractor will oversee the annual review and update of the
Operation and Maintenance Manuals.
   (D)   All updates shall be submitted to the Board of County Sanitation
District.
   (E)   The contractor will maintain copies of the manuals as follows:
      (1)   Copies of the manuals will be maintained at the office of the
County Judge Executive and/or the County Sanitation District as appropriate;
and
      (2)   Copies will be maintained at the contractor’s office and be
available for public inspection.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
EXTENSION OF SANITARY SEWER SERVICE
§ 52.15 POLICY.
   (A)   In order to promote the orderly growth and advancement of existing and
proposed residential, commercial and industrial areas inside, and outside, the
district limits, adjacent to, and surrounding the district, so that such areas
may at the proper time be served by the sewer service, the Board of County
Sanitation District hereby decrees that henceforth district sanitary sewer
service will not be extended except under the terms and conditions set forth in
this chapter.
   (B)   This policy is based on the plan adopted by the Board of County
Sanitation District for the financing of the district owned sanitary systems,
which plan provides generally:
      (1)   For all local collector sewers, including manholes and service
connections, to be paid for by the subdivider, developer or property owner; and
      (2)   Operation and maintenance expenses are to be paid for from service
charges.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.16 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Required. The subdivider, developer or property owner requesting an
extension of district sewer service shall file an application as provided in §
52.15 of this chapter of the standard construction specifications, rules and
regulations as adopted in §
52.01 of this chapter.
   (B)   General rules of priority for consideration.
      (1)   Applications for extension of district sewer services will be
considered in accordance with the following order of priorities:
         (a)   The area requesting service is located adjacent or contiguous to
an existing district sewer service line;
         (b)   The area requesting service is located within existing district
boundaries;
         (c)   The area requesting service is adjacent or contiguous to the
existing district boundary; and
         (d)   All other requests for services.
      (2)   The provisions in subsection (1) above apply to all such
applications, however the Board of County Sanitation District may, by
resolution or order, grant a waiver of any or all of these provisions when it
is deemed to be in the best interest of the district to do so.
   (C)   Agreements required.
      (1)   Applications for extension of district sewer services will
generally not be considered unless:
         (a)   The subdivider, developer or property owner agrees to pay the
cost of all collector sewers, including manholes, pump stations and service
connections, under one or other of the payment plans set out in §§
52.17 and
52.18 of this subchapter;
         (b)   The subdivider, developer or property owner agrees to furnish
without cost to the district sufficient and adequate easements on which water
or sewer mains may be placed within the area to be served;
         (c)   The subdivider, developer or property owner understands his or
her obligation to abide by the subdivision and zoning regulations of the
County/Cedar Creek Planning and Zoning Commission, the standard construction
specifications and the rules and regulations of the district, where applicable.
      (2)   It is intended that the requirements set out above be included in a
written agreement between the district and the subdivider, developer or
property owner as a condition precedent to any and all extension of water or
sanitary sewer service to the area being developed, whether within or without
the district limits.
      (3)   EXTENSION shall be defined as any addition to the existing system
and/or any change in the scope of existing services.
      (4)   The above requirements apply to such applications, however the
Board of County Sanitation District may, by resolution or order, grant a waiver
of any or all of these provisions when it is deemed to be in the best interest
of the district to do so.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.17 DEVELOPED AREAS.
   Local collector sewers in developed areas where numerous property owners are
involved shall be installed and paid for under one of the following payment
plans:
   (A)   All benefited property owners shall pay into an escrow fund an amount
equal to their proportionate share of the total estimated cost of the
installation of water or sanitary sewers prior to the beginning of
construction. The basis of prorating the costs shall be determined by mutual
agreement between the district and the property owners on the front foot, land
value or other such mutually acceptable basis. When the entire amount has been
paid into the escrow fund, the district shall then cause the construction to be
accomplished under its usual and customary procedures for public works
construction. At the completion of construction when actual costs are known,
the escrow account shall be adjusted either up or down, whichever may apply,
with each property owner paying to or receiving from the fund his or her
appropriate share to properly adjust said fund to the actual cost of the work.
   (B)   Installation by the district on an assessment basis under the
applicable chapter of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (C)   Any other plan acceptable to the District Board of Directors.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.18 UNDEVELOPED AREAS.
   Local collector sewers in undeveloped areas shall be undertaken and paid for
by one of the following methods:
   (A)   The subdivider, or developer, must make his or her own arrangements to
construct, and pay for required facilities subject to the standard construction
specifications and all terms and conditions set out in this subchapter,
including division (B) of this section and dedication of facilities to the
district without cost and in first class condition upon such completion; or
   (B)   Full cost of the installation of water mains and sanitary sewers to be
borne by the subdivider or developer under whatever terms may be included in a
contract between the district and the subdivider or developer. Installations by
this procedure may be planned or constructed by either party to the contract.
If the subdivider or developer undertakes the construction with his or her own
forces or contracts for such construction, he or she shall be wholly and
entirely responsible to see that the work conforms to the district’s current
standard construction specifications for sewer construction, in order to ensure
compliance with district specifications. It shall be his or her responsibility
to pay the cost of providing an adequate number of competent, approved resident
inspectors during construction. Completed facilities must meet the required
performance tests.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.19 SINGLE CUSTOMERS OR PROPERTY.
   Extensions to serve a single residential, commercial or industrial customer
or property shall generally be accomplished in the same manner as set out for
general extensions.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.30 INTRODUCTION.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Lincoln County Sanitation District
Sewer Use Ordinance” and is enacted for the purposes of regulating the disposal
of wastes and the use of the district’s sewer system, of adopting industrial
pretreatment and reporting standards and of effecting compliance therewith, of
helping to insure compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and
regulations, and of promoting the health and general welfare of all citizens.
This subchapter shall be applicable within the entire limits of the district,
and to all persons and places served by the district sewer system. Penalties
for violation of the provisions of this subchapter are set forth in §
52.99(A).
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water
Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF A USER. An authorized representative of a user
may be: a principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-president,
if the industrial user is a corporation; a general partner or proprietor if the
user is a partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or a duly authorized
representative of the individual designated above if such representative is
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the indirect
discharge originates.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DISTRICT. An authorized representative of
the district may be any person designated by the district to act on its behalf.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5. BMPs include, but are not limited
to, treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control
plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage
from raw materials storage.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20º C., expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING or HOUSE. A structure having walls and a roof designed and used for
the housing, shelter, enclosure or support of persons, animals, or property.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT. The permit required by Kentucky State Plumbing Law
for the installation of building sewers.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD (NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARDS OR PRETREATMENT STANDARD). Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with Section 307(b) and
(c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1347) which applies to a specific category of
industrial users.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   CONSTRUCTION FEE. A fee charged to a customer to construct a tap required to
serve that customer.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any system of condensation, air
conditioning, cooling, refrigeration, or other such system, but which has not
been in direct contact with any substance which could result in the addition of
any polluting material to the water other than an increased temperature of this
increase not to exceed limits considered detrimental to any of the facilities
of the district or result in any changes in the water characteristics which
would be objectionable from the standpoint of odor or other nuisance. The water
must be free of oil and polluting material.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Lincoln County Health Department.
   DILUTION STREAM. Any wastewater not generated by a process regulated for the
specific pollutant by a categorical standard under 40 C.F.R. Subchapter N.
   DISTRICT. The district or contractor of sewage works of the district, or his
or her authorized deputy, agent or representative. All powers and duties of the
district shall also be applicable to the District Engineer.
   EPA. The Environmental Protection Agency of the United States government.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under Section 307(b) or (c) of the Act,
(33 U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into
the system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to
Section 402 of the Clean Water Act.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from normal sewage.
   INFILTRATION. That amount of groundwater from rainfall, streams or other
sources of surface water which results in leakage into the public wastewater
collection system.
   INFLOW. That amount of storm water runoff which enters the public wastewater
collection system by leakage of the collection system and/or its appurtenances
or by direct connection of storm water drainage systems to the public
wastewater collection system.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the publicly owned treatment
works treatment processes or operations which contributes to a violation of any
requirement of the district’s national pollution discharge elimination system
permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the
publicly owned treatment works in accordance with Section 405 of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1345), or any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or more stringent state criteria, including those contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of Solid Waste
Disposal Act, applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the
publicly owned treatment works (POTW).
   LOCAL COLLECTOR SEWERS. Includes the manholes, collector lines and service
lines which abut customers’ properties but do not cross longer spans of
undeveloped property.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1347) that
applies to a specific category of industrial users.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE INDUSTRIAL USER. Any source, the construction of which is
commenced after the publication of proposed regulations prescribing a Section
307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317) categorical pretreatment standard which will be
applicable to such source, if such standard is therefore promulgated within 120
days of proposed federal register. Where the standard is promulgated later than
120 days after proposal, a new source means any source, the construction of
which is commenced after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   NORMAL SEWAGE. Shall be regarded as normal for the district if analysis show
a daily average of not more than 250 milligrams per liter of suspended solids,
not more than 250 milligrams per liter of BOD and not more than a total of 50
milligrams per liter of grease and oil.
   NPDES PERMIT. The national pollution discharge elimination system permits
issued pursuant to PL 92-500, Federal Water Quality Act of 1970, and all
amendments thereof.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge of pollutant which cannot be treated adequately by
the POTW, and therefore exits into waters of the United States in quantities or
concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) (40 C.F.R. § 403.3).
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   PLUMBING INSPECTOR. The individual assigned by the Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet to enforce the plumbing laws and codes of the
state within the district area.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a publicly owned
treatment works. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical,
chemical or biological processes, process changes or other means, except as
prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards, local limits and any other narrative requirements or best management
practices required of the district by the Danville Wastewater Treatment Plant.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by
Section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1291), which is owned in this instance by
the City of Danville. The definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater
to the POTW treatment plant.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm waters,
surface waters and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground waters, surface waters, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any industrial user of the district’s wastewater disposal system
who:
         (a)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average
workday;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the district’s
wastewater treatment system or greater than 5% of the average dry weather
hydraulic or organic (BOD, TSS and the like) capacity of the treatment plant;
         (c)   Has in its waste toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to Section
307 of the Act (33 U.S.C.) or applicable state statutes and rules;
         (d)   Is found by the district, state Division of Water or the EPA to
have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of
sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the
system;
         (e)   Is subject to categorical pretreatment standard(s) under 40
C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N; or
         (f)   Has the reasonable potential, in the opinion of the control or
approval authority, to adversely affect the POTW treatment plant (such as,
cause inhibition, pass through of pollutants, sludge contamination or
endangerment of POTW workers) or violate any requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The district may determine that an industrial user subject to
categorical pretreatment standards is a non-significant categorical industrial
user rather than a significant industrial user on a finding that the industrial
user never discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical
wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown
wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the
following conditions are met: the industrial user, prior to the district’s
finding, has consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment
standards and requirements; the industrial user annually submits the
certification statement required in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(q) together with any
additional information necessary to support the certification statement; and
the industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated process
wastewater.
      (3)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in this section has
no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTWs operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the district may at any
time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an
industrial user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6),
determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC).
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater limits, defined as those in which
66% or more of all measurements taken during a six-month period exceed (by any
magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the same pollutant
parameters;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as those in
which 33% or more of all measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during
a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or
the average limit times the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils
and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer-term average) that the control authority determines has caused, alone
or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through
(including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTWs
exercise of its emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 (f)(1)(vi)(B) to
halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order, for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations including violations of
best management practices which the control authority determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
   SLUG. Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutant, BOD, and the
like, released in a discharge of such volume or strength as to cause
interference in the city wastewater treatment plant.
   STORM DRAIN (STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm waters, surface
waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than
unpolluted cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TAP ON FEE. A fee charged for the right to connect to the sanitary sewer
system.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of Environmental Protection
Agency under the provisions of CWA 307(a) or other acts.
   TRUNK SEWER LINES. Includes force mains and larger gravity collector lines
which travel cross country.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.32 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED WHERE AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Unlawful deposits. It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the district or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the district, any human excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Discharge to natural outlets. It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet, within the district, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the district, any sewage or other priority pollutants or hazardous chemicals as
defined by EPA, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with subsequent provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Use of septic tanks, cesspools and the like. Except as provided in
this section, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for disposal
of sewage.
   (D)   Connection required where public sewers available.
      (1)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the
district and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer
of the district, is hereby required at his or her expense, to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter,
provided the public sewer is available as hereinafter defined, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so from the district or other authorized
agent. The precise time for compliance shall be determined by the district
depending upon the particular facts involved, it being understood the
prescribed time limit should be reasonable and practicable.
      (2)   After 90 days from the date that the notice to connect is issued,
billing for sewer service will commence.
   (E)   Available defined.
      (1)   The term AVAILABLE as used in connection with this subchapter means
a public sewer within 200 feet of the building to be served; whereupon it shall
become the duty of the owner of such property to connect the premises to the
sewage collection facility. This distance will be measured in a direct line
from the sewer tap to the customer’s building.
      (2)   If a pump is necessary to convey sewage from the customer’s
building (or portion of the building), the provisions of the Kentucky Plumbing
Code will apply.
   (F)   Septic tanks, seepage laterals, privies and the like declared public
nuisance.  The existence within the district, wherever the services of the
district sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal facilities are
available, or may hereafter be made available, as the term AVAILABLE is defined
in division (E) of this section, of septic tanks, seepage laterals, privies,
earthpits, cesspools, sanitary waste vaults, sewage drainage field, private
sewage disposal systems, or any other such facilities or works for the
disposition of sanitary sewage wastes other than the facilities of the
district, except where suitable treatment has been provided for in accordance
with subsequent provisions of this subchapter, is hereby declared to be a
menace to the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens and
inhabitants of the district, and is hereby determined and declared to
constitute a public nuisance. The existence of such facilities as toilets,
sinks, wash basins, shower baths, bathtubs, any commercial or industrial
machinery or device producing a liquid waste product, and the like, in or upon
any improved property or premises in the district where the facilities of the
district’s sewage collection, treatment, and disposal system are available, or
may hereafter be made available, is similarly declared to be a menace to the
public health and general welfare of the district and its inhabitants, unless
such facilities are connected to the district sewage collection, treatment and
disposal system. Each connection shall be supervised, inspected and approved by
an authorized and qualified agent of the district.
   (G)   Approval for private sewage treatment systems. Notwithstanding
division (F) of this section, any person required in this section to use the
public sewers may maintain and use a private sewage treatment and/or disposal
system with the written approval of the district.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL WHERE PUBLIC SEWERS ARE NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Required. Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions
of §
52.34 of this subchapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section and with
the requirements of the County Health Department and other applicable
authority.
   (B)   Connection to public sewer; abandoning and sealing private system.
      (1)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made
to the public sewer within 90 days and in compliance with this subchapter
unless an exception is granted by the district under the provisions of §
52.33(G) of this subchapter.
      (2)   The private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and all
inlets will be capped, pursuant to the Kentucky Plumbing Code.
   (C)   Operation. The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
district.
   (D)   Additional requirements. Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be
construed to interfere with or limit in any way any additional requirements
that may be imposed by the County Health Department or other applicable
authority.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.34 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS TO THE PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   Unauthorized connections. No authorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
district.
   (B)   Classes of permits; applications; fees.
      (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For services to establishments producing industrial waste.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the district. The application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the district. An application and an inspection fee
for a sewer permit shall be paid to the district at the time the application is
filed. The prevailing constructing charges for making a tap into the district’s
sewer system shall be as determined from time to time by the Board of County
Sanitation District. Any person, including industrial users, granted a sewer
permit shall be authorized for so long as he or she shall comply with all
conditions and requirements set forth in this subchapter. However, if any
person, including industrial users, shall have their permit to discharge sewage
revoked or terminated pursuant to §
52.41 of this subchapter, then such person shall be required to make
application as set forth in this division (B) of this section for another
permit and in addition to the requirements set forth in this division (B) of
this section shall satisfy the district that all violations which resulted in
the termination of its permit have been remedied.
   (C)   Costs and expenses borne by owner; indemnification of district. All
costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the building
sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the district from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   Separate sewers required. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building, unless where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer, is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, then the building sewer from the front building may be extended to
the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer. The district
will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or
resulting from any such single connection mentioned above. A separate tap on
fee will be assessed for each building served.
   (E)   Use of old building sewers. Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found on examination and test
by the district to meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   Pipe specifications. All new building sewers shall be PVC pipe, ASTM
D-3034, latest revision, and shall meet requirements of the State Plumbing
Code. Joints shall be as set out in division (I) of this section. Any part of
the building sewer that is located within five feet of a water service pipe
shall be constructed at least one foot deeper in the ground than the water
service. The district may require ductile iron pipe in filled or unstable
ground, and/or in areas where the cover over the building sewer is less than
three feet.
   (G)   Laying of building sewer; depth. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford 24 inches of cover over pipe
except where exposed to vehicular traffic. Portions of the building sewer
subjected to vehicular traffic shall have a minimum cover of 36 inches or be
encased in a six-inch envelope of concrete. The building sewer shall be laid at
uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.
   (H)   Size and slope. The size and slope of the building sewer shall be
subject to the approval of the district. In general, the building sewer shall
not less than four inches in diameter if constructed for single user. The slope
of the building sewer shall in no event be less than one-eighth inch per foot.
No building sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing
wall which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford
protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in
straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only
with properly curved pipe and fittings.
   (I)   Joints and connections. All new joints and connections shall be made
gastight and watertight and shall comply with the State Plumbing Code.
   (J)   Connection to public sewer. The building sewer shall be connected into
the public sewer at the curb or property line, if a service branch sewer or wye
is available at a suitable location. Where no properly located service branch
sewer or wye is available an authorized agent of the district will cut a neat
hole into the main line of the public sewer and install a suitable wye or tee
saddle and extend a service branch sewer at such a point of connection with a
wye saddle shall be in the upper quadrant of the main line of the public sewer.
A neat workmanlike connection not extending past the inner surface of the main
public sewer will be made and the saddle made secure and watertight.
   (K)   Elevation. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer as required by the State Plumbing Code.
   (L)   Trenches. All excavations required for the installation of a building
sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the district; and
all such trenches shall be kept open until the pipe has been inspected, tested
and approved by the District or its agent. Except where bends are supplied,
trenches shall be straight in direction and grade to accommodate prefabricated
joints. Trenches shall be at least 20 inches wide. Building sanitary sewers
laid in undisturbed ground must be laid on at least six inches of pea gravel,
sand, #9 stone or other approved grillage to support the pipe. The trench shall
be filled with the same approved grillage on each side of the pipe and six
inches over the same.
   (M)   Connection of surface runoff or groundwater to building sewer. No
person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains, sump pumps or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to
a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (N)   New connections from inflow sources. New connections to the sanitary
sewer systems from inflow sources is prohibited, as defined and in satisfaction
of the requirements of Regulation No. 35.927.4 promulgated under Title II of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, or any amendment
thereof.
   (O)   Barricading and lighting; restoring excavations. All excavations for
building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded by barricades and
lights so as to protect the public from hazards. Furthermore, all pertinent and
applicable OSHA requirements shall be met. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and
other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in
a manner satisfactory to the district.
   (P)   Connection at property line or easement; wye or tee connections. The
building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the easement or
property line. Where no properly located service branch is available, an
authorized agent of the district shall cut a neat hole into the main line of
the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to receive the
building sewer. The invert of the building sewer at such point of connection
with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant of the main line of the public
sewer. A neat workmanlike connection not extending past the inner surface of
the public sewer shall be made and the saddle made secure and watertight by
specially prepared for this purpose. A wye and fitting shall be installed at
the property line between the public sewer and the building sewer. This fitting
shall serve the purpose of a cleanout and for applying the smoke test during
inspection of the line. After the testing, a riser will be inserted in this
fitting and brought flush with the ground surface. A stopper or plug, outfitted
with a type joint applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against
the intrusion of groundwater or surface water.
   (Q)   Inspections; notification. The applicant for the building sewer
permit, or his or her licensed plumber, shall notify the district or its agent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The inspection shall be made within a reasonable period of time after
the receipt of notice. The connection shall be made under the supervision of
the district or its agent.
   (R)   Testing. All building sewers shall be smoke or air tested through the
wye and fitting at the public sewer connection, with the public sewer tightly
plugged off, after connections at both ends are made and after all pipe is
properly bedded and backfilled to the top of pipe. At time of test, any
openings into the building drain inside the building shall be water trapped or
plugged. Any leakage of smoke from building sewer or building drain and
plumbing shall be located at test and repaired to stand repetition of smoke
test without leakage. A suitable low-pressure air test may be considered to be
equal to smoke testing. All trenches or other excavated areas shall be kept
open until the pipe has been tested and approved by the district.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.35 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Prohibited discharges into sanitary sewer. No person shall discharge,
permit or cause to be discharged, any storm water, surface water, groundwater,
roof runoff, or substance drainage to any sanitary sewer. Further, no person
shall discharge, permit or cause to be discharged any noncontact cooling waters
to any sanitary sewer, unless granted written authorization by the district.
   (B)   Discharge stormwater or cooling waters. Stormwater and all noncontact
cooling waters, except where authorization is granted by the district to
discharge into the sanitary sewer, shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the
district. Under no circumstances shall sanitary waste water be discharged into
a storm sewer.
   (C)   Prohibited discharges to public sewers. No user shall discharge or
cause to be discharged, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which will interfere with performance of the POTW or cause pass-through of a
pollutant(s) to the receiving stream. These general prohibitions apply to all
such users of a POTW whether or not the user is subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state, or local pretreatment
standards or requirements. A user shall not contribute the following substances
to the POTW:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing priority pollutants or hazardous
chemicals, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to human or animals, create a public nuisance, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shaving, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (5)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed up flashpoint of less
than 140º F. or 60º C. using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (6)   Toxic gases, vapors, or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that
may cause acute worker health and safety problems;
      (7)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, cooking or frying oils
or products of mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or
pass-through;
      (8)   Any pollutant, substance, compound, solid liquid or gas that will
either interfere with the POTW or pass through the POTW to cause toxicity in
the POTW effluent;
      (9)   Any waste which does not meet applicable categorical industrial
standards;
      (10)   All trucked or hauled wastes unless authorized by the district in
writing; and
      (11)   Use of dilution as a means of treatment to meet categorical
standard except when expressly authorized to do so by an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard and as applicable to §
52.49(B) of this subchapter.
   (D)   Discharge of potentially harmful wastes. No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged the following described substances, materials, waters or
wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the district that such wastes can
harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment; endanger life,
limb or public property; or constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her
opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the district will give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150º F. (65º
C.) However, the temperature of sewage at the point of entry into the sewage
treatment plant shall not exceed 104º F., and in the event at such occurrence,
the district shall have appropriate authority to determine the cause of major
causes of such excessive temperature and shall have the authority to exercise
those procedures and remedies set forth in division (F) of this section;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or containing
substances which may solidify or become sufficiently viscous to obstruct flow
in the sewers at temperatures between 32º F. and 150º F.(0 and 65º C.);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing chemical constituents and/or
objectionable or toxic substances that exceed the limits set forth below or
limits as set forth in the federal pretreatment standards contained in 40
C.F.R. part 403, or such other federal standards and regulations as may from
time to time be enacted;
      (5)   Any waters or waste containing phenols or other taste and/or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the district as necessary, or exceeding the limits set forth in
the federal pretreatment standards mentioned in subsection (4) above, or any
other requirements or standards of the state, federal, or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the district in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (7)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Concentrations of inert suspended solids exceeding 350
milligrams per liter, such
as, but not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues; or of
dissolved solids in quantities sufficient to have a detrimental effect on the
treatment process;
         (b)   Excessive discolorations exceeding 300 standard color units,
such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning solutions, unless
approved by the district;
         (c)   Unusual chemical requirements which constitute a significant
load on the sewage treatment works, unless specifically permitted by special
permit; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined in this subchapter.
      (8)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (9)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   (E)   Industrial discharge limits. The district and/or the Danville WWTP is
authorized to establish local limits pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(c). These
limitations are for characteristics of any wastewaters to be discharged into
the municipal sewer system, subject to any compliance schedule as established
in the industrial user permit. All significant industrial users must comply
with these discharge limitations where they are more stringent than applicable
state and federal regulations. Based upon the sampling program at the Danville
Wastewater Treatment Plant, the discharge limitations may be adjusted to
reflect the POTW’s needs. The following individual waste limitations are
provided in addition to others set forth in this subchapter:
Industrial Discharge Limits
Analysis Monthly Average* Maximum Day*
Industrial Discharge Limits
Analysis                       Monthly Average* Maximum Day*
COD                            450              990
BOD                            300              450
Total suspended solids         350              500
Total chromium                                  2.0
Hexavalent chromium                             .45
Iron                                            7.0
Copper                                          1.42
Phenol                                          0.5
pH                             5.5-9.0          5.5-9.0
Zinc                                            2.0
Total oil and grease           50               75
Nickel                                          0.73
Lead                                            0.31
Cadmium                                         0 . 05
Silver                                          0.20
Total kjedldahl nitrogen (TKN) 40.0             60.0
Cyanide, total                                  0.15
Cyanide, amenable                               0.12
Arsenic                                         0 10
Mercury                                         0.0012
TTO                                             2.13
Molybdenum                                      0.35
Selenium                                        0.16
*Values in milligram per liter- (mg/l)
 
   (F)   Actions regarding potentially harmful wastes.
      (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in this section and which in the judgment of the
district may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the district may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of division (K) of this section.
      (2)   If the district permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the district, and subject to the requirements of
all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (G)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors. Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
(traps) shall be provided when, in the opinion of the District, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters
or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the district and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means
of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal which are subject to review by the district.
   (H)   Preliminary treatment; flow-equalizing facilities. Where preliminary
treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for the wastes or waters,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his or her expense.
   (I)   Control manhole. When required by the district, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the industrial wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (J)   Measurements, testing and analysis. All measurements, tests, and
analysis of the characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made
in this subchapter shall be determined in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 or
other applicable standard or authority, and shall be determined at the control
manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at such control manhole. If no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The cost
of having tests run on industrial waste shall be at the expense of the
industrial user.
   (K)   Special agreements between district and industrial users. No statement
contained in this section shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement or arrangement between the district and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the district for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the industrial
concern. However, any such special agreement the district and any industrial
user cannot be less stringent than any applicable federal pretreatment standard
or categorical regulation pursuant to Section 307 of the Clean Water Act and
must be approved by the office of the Pretreatment Section KPDES Branch
Division of Water.
   (L)   Emptying septic tanks or grease traps into sewer system. No septic
tank or grease trap (interceptor) waste will be permitted to be emptied into
the district’s sanitary sewer system.
   (M)   National categorical standards. The City of Danville has received
authority through the U.S. EPA and state statutes to enforce the requirements
of 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N, parts 405-471 and 40 C.F.R. part 403. All
users shall comply with the requirements of those regulations. The WWTP and/or
the district and/or its designee may require the development and implementation
of best management practices (BMPs), by ordinance or in individual wastewater
discharge permits to implement local limits and the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.36 PRETREATMENT OF INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS BY INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   In addition to the requirements set forth in §
52.35 of this subchapter, which section applies to all users, including
industrial users, all industrial users are further required to meet the
pretreatment requirements’ Best Practicable Control Technology Currently
Available (BPT) if they are discharging incompatible or toxic pollutants, as
defined by the applicable federal pretreatment regulations. The district or
other authorized agent of the district shall be allowed to enforce upon
industrial users any and all pretreatment requirements necessary to ensure
compliance by the district with the terms and conditions of its NPDES permit,
as well as to ensure compliance by all industrial users with the pretreatment
standards and any other applicable requirements promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, or other federal laws and regulations.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.37 ADDITIONAL DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions contained in this
section, and in addition thereto, it shall be unlawful for any person to
dispose into the sewage works any pollutant except in compliance with federal
standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendment of 1972, and other applicable federal law, as may from time to time
be enacted.
   (B)   All users must notify the district of any hazardous wastes discharges
to the POTW. Notification must comply with requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(p).
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.38 SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
   (A)   A significant industrial user shall be defined in §
52.31 of this subchapter. Any change in the definition of a significant
industrial user as a result of promulgations in response to Section 307 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, or other applicable law, shall immediately
become a part of this subchapter.
   (B)   All significant industrial users, categorical industrial users and
other industrial users as deemed necessary by the district, shall file to the
district quarterly reports or on dates specified in the industrial user permit,
unless required more frequently by the permit, a report indicating, at a
minimum, the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are
limited by pretreatment standards or the discharge permit. The report shall
also include the chain-of-custody (COC) forms, field data and any other
information required by the district. In addition, this report shall include a
record of all daily flows or the average daily flow. At the discretion of the
district and in consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates,
holidays, budget cycles, and the like, the district may agree to alter the
months during which the above reports are to be submitted. All periodic
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with 40 C.F.R §
403.12 and this subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   The significant industrial users shall employ such methods and
procedures for sampling, preparing of records and reports, and using and
maintaining monitoring equipment as required by the district. Test procedures
shall be set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 136.3, and other applicable federal
regulations. All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge. All analyses shall be performed by a
laboratory acceptable to the district. Analytical procedures shall be in
accordance with procedures established by the U.S. EPA Administrator pursuant
to Section 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments
thereto and 40 C.F.R. part 261 or with any other test procedures approved by
the U.S. EPA Administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator. Except as indicated in
subsections (a) and (b) below, the user must collect wastewater samples using
24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling techniques, unless time-
proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the district.
Where time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by
the district, the samples must be representative of the discharge. Using
protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. part 136
and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour
period may be composited prior to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total
phenols and sulfides the samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the
field; for volatile organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited
in the laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the
compositing procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be
authorized by the district, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with instantaneous limits.
         (a)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total
phenols, sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab
collection techniques.
         (b)    For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-
day compliance reports required in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (d), a minimum of
four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease,
sulfide and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which historical
sampling data do not exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data
are available, the district may authorize a lower minimum.
      (2)   For the reports required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e) and (h), the
industrial user is required to collect the number of grab samples necessary to
assess and assure compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements. Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling or
analytical technique for the pollutant(s) in question, sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA
publication “Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial
Effluents for Priority Pollutants,” April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with
any other sampling and analytical procedures approved by the U.S. EPA
Administrator.
   (D)   (1)   If sampling methods and laboratory procedures by and for the
industrial user fail to provide the information required, and further provided
that the district:
         (a)   Has good reason to believe that the industrial user is in
noncompliance with all or part of its permit; or
         (b)   Believes the industrial user be causing excessive maintenance
with transmission facilities or upsets of the biological treatment processes.
      (2)   The district shall first notify in writing the offending or
noncomplying user and shall give such user a reasonable time in which to take
such remedial action deemed necessary by the district; and if the user fails to
do so, then the district shall follow the enforcement actions as provided for
in this subchapter and the district’s enforcement response plan. The district
shall be authorized to obtain the services of outside specialists, consultants
or laboratory services to sample and/or analyze the sewage discharge by the
industry. The cost of these services shall be at the expense of the industry.
   (E)   All significant industrial users must report all self-monitoring
results that the user has obtained whether requested or not. The user may not
change any monitoring points prior to approval in writing by the district.
   (F)   All significant industrial users (SIU) must notify the district
immediately of any slug loading or hazardous waste discharge by the industrial
user. Upon notification of such slug, the district may within seven days notify
the industrial user of the requirements of a slug control plan. The required
plan will contain the elements as follows, along with other requirements as
necessary by the district.
      (1)   Description of discharge practices;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for notification of the POTW; and
      (4)   Prevention procedures for spills.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.39 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Right of entry; cooperation with. All agents of the Danville
Wastewater Treatment Plant, the district and of the state and/or EPA, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties, including that of all industrial users, for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing. All industrial
users shall cooperate with such agents and officials as may be necessary to
enforce the compliance of all federal and state laws.
   (B)   Right of entry onto easements. The district and other duly authorized
employees or consultants of the district bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which
the district holds a duly negotiated easement and/or; a contractual agreement
for entry for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
facilities lying within such easement, all entry and subsequent work, if any,
on such easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement and/or contractual agreement for entry pertaining to the
private property involved.
   (C)   Obtaining information.
      (1)   The district or other duly authorized employees are authorized to
obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewage collection system. The
industry may withhold information proven to be confidential. The industry must
establish that the revelation to the public of the information in question
might result in an advantage to competitors. The district shall be empowered to
seek judicial determination as to any claims of confidentiality.
      (2)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests in writing and is
able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the district that the release of
such information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
      (3)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available to all
governmental agencies for uses related to this subchapter, the NPDES/KPDES
permit, sludge disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment program upon the
request of the agency. Such portions of a report shall be available for use by
the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall
be available to the public without restriction.
   (D)   Observing safety rules; liability of company; indemnification of
company. While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) of this section, the district or duly authorized employees of
the district shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the company; and the company shall be held harmless for injury
or death to the district employees, except as such may be caused by negligence
or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions; and the district shall
indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by district
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions.
   (E)   Access on premises. The district shall inspect the facilities of any
user to ascertain whether the purpose of this subchapter is being met and all
requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where
wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the district or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purpose of inspection, sampling, records examination or in the
performance of any of their duties. The district, approval authority, where the
NPDES state is the approval authority, and EPA shall have the right to set up
on the user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the district, the approval authority and EPA
will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purpose of performing their
specific responsibilities.
   (F)   Random sampling and demand monitoring. The district shall conduct
random sampling and demand monitoring of effluent from industrial users in
accordance with a schedule established by the district; however, in no event
shall the monitoring be performed at intervals of greater than one year.
   (G)   Custody; record of samples. All samples taken by or on behalf of the
district shall be placed in the custody of the district. The samples shall not
be removed from his or her custody and control, unless the person so removing
shall sign a control docket or sampling record, which reflects the date and
time of removal, the name of the person to whom custody is being transferred,
and the title and authority of such persons; the sampling record shall be
maintained in accordance with Table 5.1, which is hereby incorporated by
reference.
   (H)   Notification of significant noncompliance. The district and/or the
City of Danville’s publicly owned treatment works shall annually provide public
notification of the industrial users who have been found to be in significant
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards during the previous 12-
month period. The District Engineer or District Manager shall then cause a
public notice of such violators to be published annually in the local daily
newspaper of largest general circulation that provides meaningful public notice
within the jurisdictions served by the POTW. The public notice shall include a
list of significant users which were in significant noncompliance with any
pretreatment requirements or standards. The notification shall also summarize
any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12 months.
For the purposes of this provision, a significant noncompliance is defined in §
52.31 of this subchapter. The violator shall be notified under procedures
outlined in the enforcement response plan. The costs to the district resulting
from such publication shall be borne on a proportional basis by the significant
industrial users published.
   (I)   Inspection of records. All pretreatment records shall be made
available upon request and may be copied if necessary by any inspector covered
under this section.
   (J)   Interjurisdictional agreements. The district is authorized to pursue
the negotiation of an interjurisdictional agreement where required for full
enforcement of this subchapter. Any agreement will be subject to final approval
by the district.
   (K)   Notification of violations and repeat sampling analysis. If sampling
performed by an industrial user indicates a violation of this subchapter, the
industrial user shall notify the POTW within 24 hours. The industrial user
shall repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results to the POTW
within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation; however, the repeat
sampling and analysis and submission by the industrial user may be waived if
and only if the POTW performs its own sampling within the same time period for
the same pollutant in question.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.40 INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY; USER CHARGE REQUIREMENTS.
   All industrial users of the sewage works shall be required to pay monthly
user charges based on rates proportional to waste loading as determined by the
district, and as will be made a part of the district sewer rate structure. This
system of charges is based upon the annual audit of the operation and
maintenance costs of the entire sewage collection, pumping, and sewage
treatment system. Additionally, the replacement cost for vital equipment is
included in the user charge determination.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.41 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall willfully break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a
part of the sewage works.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.42 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS AND WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a district permit to any natural
outlet within the district, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
district, and/or to the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the
district in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. All significant
industrial users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the POTW shall
obtain a wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or contributing to
the POTW shall have first obtained a wastewater contribution permit. Users
shall promptly notify the district at least 30 days in advance of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW. The
district may deny or condition the new introduction or change in discharge
based on the information submitted in the notification or additional
information as may be requested. Significant industrial users are required to
notify the district immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the
potential for a slug discharge.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.43 APPLICATION FOR WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT.
   (A)   Users required to obtain an industrial user permit shall complete and
file with the district an application in the form prescribed by the district
and accompanied by a fee of $50. Existing users shall immediately apply for a
wastewater contribution permit and proposed new users shall apply at least 90
days prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW. In support of the
application, the user shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for
evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location, if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number according to the standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those mentioned in this section as determined by a reliable
analytical laboratory; sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to Section 304(g) of the Act
and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutant in the
discharge which are limited by any applicable district, state or federal
pretreatment standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether
additional operation and maintenance (O & M) and/or additional pretreatment is
required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule
shall not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
treatment standard, or within 180 days after the date of the ordinance,
whichever last occurs. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards, such as, hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like;
         (b)   No increment referred to in subsection (a) above shall exceed
nine months; and
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
district, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the district.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed, average and maximum
per day;
      (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the district to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application; and
      (14)   All new source categorical industrial users must submit a baseline
monitoring report (BMR) with the application. The BMR must be submitted to the
district by all at least 90 days prior to initiation of discharge to the
sanitary sewer. The BMR must include, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   Production data: a process description, SIC code number, raw
materials used, chemicals used, final product, pretreatment industrial category
(if applicable), and a schematic which indicates points of discharge to the
sewer system;
         (b)   Identifying information to include name, address of facility,
owner(s), contact person and any other permits held by the facility;
         (c)   Wastewater characteristics: total plant flow, types of
discharges, average and maximum flows from each process;
         (d)   Nature/concentration of pollutants: analytical results for all
pollutants regulated by this chapter and/or any applicable federal pretreatment
standard and sample type and location. All analyses must conform to 40 C.F.R.
part 136 and amendments thereto;
         (e)   Information concerning any pretreatment equipment used to treat
the facility’s discharge;
         (f)   A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized representative as
defined in §
52.31 of this chapter and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance (O & M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
and
         (g)   If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A
compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out
in this subchapter.
   (B)   The district will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the district may issue a wastewater contribution permit subject to
terms and conditions provided in this subchapter. The wastewater contribution
permit must be issued prior to commencement of discharge. The district may
withhold or discontinue water service until the discharge permit is issued. All
new source categorical industries shall be capable of achieving compliance with
this chapter upon commencement of discharge.
   (C)   The District shall provide notice to each significant industrial user
of the issuance of the user’s wastewater contribution permit. Any person,
including the user, may petition the district to reconsider the terms of a
permit within 15 days of notice of its issuance.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the permit
provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection and the alternative
condition, if any, it seeks to place in the permit.
      (3)   The effectiveness of the permit shall not be stayed during the
appeal.
      (4)   If the district fails to act within 30 days of receipt of the
appeal, a request for reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Upon denial
of an appeal, the user may appeal to the District Manager within 15 days of the
date of the denial. The District Manager shall respond to the appeal within 30
days. Decisions by the District Manager not to reconsider a permit, not to
issue a permit or not to modify a permit shall be considered final
administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
      (5)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative action and/or the permit must do so by filing a complaint with
the County Circuit Court in accordance with the appropriate procedures of that
court and any statute of limitations.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.44 MODIFICATIONS OF WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT.
   The district may modify an industrial user permit for good cause, including,
but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the Danville POTW, personnel, bio solids disposal and/or the receiving stream;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the industrial user permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13; or
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the discharge permit.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.45 CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits and wastewater contribution permits shall
be expressly subject to all provisions of this subchapter and all other
applicable regulations, user charges and fees established by the district. The
district may authorize an industrial user subject to a categorical pretreatment
standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a categorical
pretreatment standard if the industrial user has demonstrated through sampling
and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither present nor expected
to be present in the discharge or is present only at background levels from
intake without any increase in the pollutant due to activities of the
industrial user.
   (B)   This authorization is subject to the conditions established in 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(e) (2). Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Effluent limits, including best management practices and slug
controls, on the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or requirements
for flow regulations and equalization, wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (4)   Specifications for monitoring programs,- which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting scheduling;
      (5)   Compliance schedules;
      (6)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports (see §§
52.47 and
52.48 of this subchapter);
      (7)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the district, and affording district
access thereto as required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(o)(2);
      (8)   Requirements for notification to the district of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment systems;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges as per §
52.35(D)(7)(d) of this chapter;
      (10)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the district to ensure
compliance with this subchapter;
      (11)   Where an effluent from an industrial process is mixed prior to
treatment with wastewaters other than those generated by the regulated process,
fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the discharge permit by
the district. These alternative limits shall be applied to the mixed effluent.
These alternative limits shall be calculated using the combined wastestream
formula and/or flow-weighted average formula given in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
Where the effluent limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production (production-based
standard), the district may convert the limits to equivalent limitations
expressed either as mass of pollutant that may be discharged per day or of
effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent permit limitations
applicable to the permittee. The permittee shall be subject to all permit
limits calculated in this manner under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c) and must fully
comply with these alternative limits. All categorical industrial users subject
to production-based standards must report production rates annually so that
alternative permit limits can be calculated if necessary. The categorical
industrial user must notify the district 30 days in advance of any change in
production levels that might affect the flow or other data used to calculate
the effluent limits in the discharge permit;
      (12)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the district for all
expenses related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction
of the district and deemed necessary by the district to verify that the user is
in compliance with the permit;
      (13)   A statement that indicates the industrial user permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      (14)   A statement that the industrial user permit is nontransferable;
      (15)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
district to be necessary;
      (16)   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
this chapter. Any grant of a waiver by the district must be included as a
condition in the user’s permit; and
      (17)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.46 DURATION OP PERMITS.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing permit. The terms
and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the district
during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in
§§
52.43 through
52.45 of this subchapter are modified or other just cause exists. The user
shall be informed of any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days
prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the
permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.47 TRANSFER OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without the approval of the district. Any succeeding owner or user
shall also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.48 COMPLIANCE DATA REPORT.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source, following commencement
of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to federal
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
district a report indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in
the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by pretreatment
standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these
process units in the user’s facility which are limited by such categorical
pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable categorical pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on
a consistent basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/
or pretreatment is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the
applicable categorical pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement
shall be signed by an authorized representative of the industrial user and
certified to by a qualified professional
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.49 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   All significant industrial users shall submit to the district
quarterly reports, unless required more frequently in the wastewater
contribution permit or by the district, a report indicating the nature and
concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such
pretreatment standards or the wastewater contribution permit. The report shall
also include all information necessary to determine that best management
practices are being implemented as required, the chain-of-custody (COC) forms,
field data and any other information required by the district. In addition,
this report shall include a record of all daily flows or the average daily
flow. At the discretion of the district and in consideration of factors as
local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, and the like, the
district may agree to alter the months during which the above reports are to be
submitted. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12 and this section. Users subject to the
reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain and make available for
inspection and copying, all records of information obtained pursuant to any
monitoring activities required by this chapter, any additional records of
information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities undertaken by the user
independent of such requirements, and documentation associated with best
management practices as may be required. Records shall include the date, exact
place, method and time of sampling and the name of the person(s) taking the
samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the
analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such analyses. These
records shall remain available for a period of at least three years. This
period shall automatically be extended for the duration of any litigation
concerning the user or the district or where the user has been specifically
notified of a longer retention by the district.
      (2)   Where compliance schedules are required, the following conditions
shall apply:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not
limited to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing and completing
construction, and beginning and conducting routine operation);
         (b)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months; and
         (c)   The user shall submit a progress report to the district no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule. The following
conditions shall apply to all compliance schedules required by this subchapter:
            1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
            2.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months.
            3.   The user shall submit a progress report to the district no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and in no event
shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the
district.
   (B)   The district may impose mass limitations on users which are using
dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other
cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such cases,
the report required by division (A) of this section shall indicate the mass of
pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user.
These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production
and mass where requested by the district, of pollutants contained therein which
are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of
monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment standard. All
analyses shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the
administrator pursuant to Section 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R.
part 136 and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures approved by
the administrator. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the
techniques approved by the administrator. Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not
include a sampling or analytical technique for the pollutant in question
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the EPA publication, “Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening
of Industrial Effluents for Priority Pollutants,” April 1977, and amendments
thereto, or with any other sampling and analytical procedures approved by the
administrator.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.50 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The district, to insure compliance with this subchapter, and as
permitted through 40 C.F.R. Subchapter N, 401 through 471 and 401 KAR 5:055,
Section 9 may take the following enforcement steps against users in
noncompliance with this subchapter. The remedies available to the district
include injunctive relief, civil and criminal penalties, immediate
discontinuance of discharges and/or water service, and the publishing of the
list of significant violators annually. The enforcement authority shall be
vested in the district and/or the POTW or his or her designee. All violations
of requirements of this subchapter must be reviewed and responded to by the
district or his or her representative. In general, the district shall notify
the industrial user when a violation occurs. For all violations, the district
shall receive an explanation and, as appropriate, a plan from the industrial
user to correct the violation within a specific time period. If the violation
(s) persist or the explanation and/or plan are not adequate, the district’s
response shall be more formal; and commitments or schedules, as appropriate,
for compliance will be established in an enforceable document. The enforcement
response selected will be related to the seriousness of the violation.
Enforcement responses will be escalated if compliance is not achieved
expeditiously after the initial action. A significant violation will require a
formal enforcement action. The full scale of enforcement actions will be
detailed in the district’s pretreatment program enforcement response plan.
   (B)   The district may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the district, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the
POTW, or causes the POTW to violate any condition of its NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (C)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or eliminate
the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the district shall take such steps as deemed
necessary including immediate severance of the sewer connection and/or water
service to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any
individuals. The district may reinstate the wastewater contribution permit and/
or the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the non-
complying discharge. A detailed written statement submitted by the user
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence shall be submitted to the district within 15 days
of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.51 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Informal notice. These actions include statements made to the
industrial user during sampling and/or inspection visits, telephone calls to
the appropriate company official, informal meetings, warnings, or reminder
letters. These informal notices shall be used for minor violations.
   (B)   Formal notice. 
      (1)   These actions include the following:
         (a)   Administrative order. Any person found to be violating any
provision of this chapter, wastewater discharge permit or any order issued
hereunder shall be served by the POTW District with a written notice stating
the nature of the violation. The offender must permanently cease all
violations.
         (b)   Show-cause hearing. The district may issue to any user who
causes or contributes to violations of this subchapter, discharge permit or
order issued hereunder an order to appear and show cause why more severe
enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place of the hearing to be held by the district
regarding the violation and the reasons why the action is to be taken. The
notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service
may be made on any agent or officer of the facility. Whether or not a duly
notified industrial user or its representative appears, immediate enforcement
action may be pursued.
      (2)   The district itself may conduct the hearing and take evidence or
may designate a representative to:
         (a)   Issue in the name of the district notices of hearings requesting
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence
relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
         (b)   Take the evidence; and
         (c)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, together with
recommendations of the district for action thereon.
      (3)   After the district has reviewed the evidence, it may issue a note
to the user responsible for the violation directing that, following a specified
time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are installed and properly
operated. Further notices and directives as are necessary and appropriate may
be issued.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.52 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each significant user shall provide protection from accidental
and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by
this chapter which adversely affects the POTW.
Facilities to prevent accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the significant user’s own cost and
expense. Once every two years, the district will determine whether each
industrial user needs to develop or update a plan to control slug discharges.
If the district determines that a slug control plan or revision is necessary,
the plan shall contain the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for notifying POTW; and
         (d)   Prevention procedures for spills.
      (2)   In the case of all possible or actual accidental and/or slug
discharges, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the pretreatment coordinator a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as
a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this subchapter, the
enforcement response plan or other applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.53 PRETREATMENT.
   All significant industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with this chapter and achieve compliance with
any applicable federal categorical pretreatment standards within the time
limitations as specified by the federal pretreatment regulations. The district
may require the development of a compliance schedule for installation of
pretreatment technology and/or equipment by any industrial user that cannot
meet discharge limits required by this chapter. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level required by this chapter shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
pretreatment coordinator for review and shall be acceptable to the district
before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating
procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying
the facility as necessary to produce an effluent that complies with the
provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the
district prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.54 SIGNATORY AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All applications, reports or information submitted to the district
shall be signed and certified in accordance with the following requirements.
Written designation of the signatory official must be received by the district
prior to acceptance of any application or other required document.
      (1)   All permit applications shall be signed:
         (a)   For a corporation: by a principal executive officer of at least
the level of vice-president; or
         (b)   For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner
or the proprietor, respectively.
      (2)   All other correspondence, reports and self-monitoring reports shall
be signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative of
that person. A person is a duly authorized representative only if:
         (a)   The authorization is made in writing by a person described
above; and
         (b)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager, engineer or
position of equivalent responsibility.
   (B)   Certification. Any person signing a document under this section shall
make the following written certification:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person(s) who manage the
system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information,
the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
      (1)   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical
industrial user by the district pursuant to §
52.31 of this subchapter must annually submit the following certification
statement signed in accordance with the signatory requirements in this section.
This certification must accompany any alternative report required by the
District:
      “Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR
[Part], I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the
period from [month/day], [year] to [month/day], [year].
         (a)   The facility described as [facility name] met the definition of
a non-significant categorical industrial user as described in §
52.31 of this subchapter;
         (b)   The facility complied with all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements during this reporting period; and
         (c)   The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total
categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.”
      (2)   Users that have an approved monitoring waiver must certify each
report with the following statement that there has been no increase in the
pollutant in its wastestream due to activities of the user:
      “Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 CFR [Part], I certify
that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the
level of [list pollutant] in the wastewaters due to the activities at the
facility since filing of the last periodic report.”
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILL. The balance of account, after charges or credits applicable, indicated
upon the statement provided a water consumer.
   CONSUMER. Any person who buys, uses or obtains water from the waterworks of
the district.
   METER. A device used for measuring the quantity of water flowing through
such device.
   NEW CONSUMER. Any person who buys, uses or obtains water from the City of
Hustonville for use at or in premises for such consumer who was not served at
the effective date of the ordinance from which this subchapter was derived.
   WATERWORKS. The Water Department of the City of Hustonville.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.66 SANITARY SEWAGE COLLECTION TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   There is hereby adopted, established, and ordained, and there shall be
collected, a schedule of rates and charges for use of the services and
facilities rendered by the municipal sanitary sewage collection treatment and
disposal facilities of the district as follows:
   (A)   The monthly sewer service charge for residential and commercial
consumers shall be as follows:
      (1)   The monthly rate for buildings of two units or less shall be $25
plus $6.50 per 1,000 gallons of water consumed.
      (2)   The monthly rate for buildings of more than two units, and are
served by one water meter shall be $15 per unit plus $6.50 per 1,000 gallons of
water consumed.
   (B)   The monthly sewer service charge for wholesale and industrial
consumers shall be as follows, or by special agreement with the district in
cases where all water used by the consumer is not returned to the sanitary
sewer or where liquid sewage wastes are of unusual strength or composition,
except that any such user which has a national pollutant discharge elimination
system (NPDES) permit shall be required to pay the sewer surcharge only on that
portion of water returned to the sewer system; such user must have a sewage
meter or some approved means of measuring the amount returned to the system and
the district shall have the right to inspect the meter at all reasonable times,
and may require the user to compile and maintain records containing pertinent
data and information, which records shall be subject to inspection by the
district and provided to the district upon request.
   (C)   Any and all industrial customers may be subject to a cost recovery fee
imposed by the City of Danville as required by Section 3 of the agreement
between the Lincoln County Sanitation District and the City of Danville, signed
February 25, 2012.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.67 SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted and established a schedule of service charges
for the establishment, creation, change or alteration of customer accounts for
the municipal waterworks and sanitary sewage collection systems. The schedule
of service charges shall be as determined from time to time by the Board of
County Sanitation District and a copy of the schedule of charges shall be
available at the office of the at the district and Hustonville City Hall for
inspection by any customer during normal office hours.
   (B)   The inspection fee for new connections is $100. The fee for
constructing a tap is set at $500; if the tap is across a street or drive, the
construction fee will be $750. All other construction will be based on the cost
of time and materials plus a 20% markup.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.68 REPAIRS.
   At any time district employees are called to repair leaks or blockages in
the sewer lines of the district, and it is discovered leaks or blockage is on
private property, the property owner will be charged for the time used by the
district and/or contractor personnel in the same manner that water users are
charged for such service.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.69 BILLING AND COLLECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The billing and collection procedures for sewer accounts shall be
established by written policy, as approved from time to time by the Board of
County Sanitation District. The written procedures shall include billing
periods, service charges, collection dates, termination of service dates,
restoration of service requirements and all other pertinent information.
   (B)   Copies of the written policy and procedures shall be maintained at the
office of the district and the Hustonville City Hall, and shall be available
for inspection by any customer during normal office hours.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.70 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The Board of County Sanitation District has previously determined and
ordained when sewer bills shall be considered as overdue, such determination
shall apply to the schedule of rates and charges. For each month, or fraction
of a month, that any bill for sewer services remains overdue and unpaid after
the tenth day of the month, there shall be added to the face amount of such
bill a penalty of $5. A payment of less than the full amount due may (but need
not) be accepted by the collecting officers or officers designated by the
district, but the same shall be merely on account and shall not prevent a
further accruing of the monthly penalty or otherwise stop the district from
pursuing any and all other remedies afforded by law until the face amount of
the bill and the accrued penalty shall have been paid in full.
   (B)   The district takes specific notice of the provisions of KRS 96.932 and
other applicable law, including case law and opinions of the Kentucky Attorney
General, granting to cities the authority and right to enforce collection of
lawful rates and charges for the use of municipal sanitary sewer service, by
requiring that water service be discontinued until payment for such sewer
service is made. The district hereby covenants with all bondholders of the
district to use and employ the enforcement provisions of the statute and other
applicable law to the fullest extent allowable under law.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.71 PROTECTION OF REVENUE BONDS.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed as inhibiting or
precluding the district from adopting a supplemental schedule of rates, charges
and rentals to be made applicable to the district’s municipal sewer system;
however, so long as any of the district’s “Lincoln County Sanitation District
Sewer System Revenue Bonds”, Series 2016 remain outstanding and unpaid, such
rates and charges shall not be reduced except in accordance with the terms of
the ordinance adopted by the district authorizing the issuance and sale of the
bonds.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.72 COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENTS.
   Commencing effective February 15, 2019 and annually thereafter, the sewer
rates contained in §
52.66 of this subchapter shall be adjusted annually in accordance with KRS
83A.075 as may be amended from time to time, so as to allow automatic cost of
living adjustments. Residential and commercial customers’ total monthly charges
will be adjusted upwards by the amount of the consumer price index as posted on
the Kentucky Department of Local Government website (https://kydlgweb.ky.gov/
Entities/countyHome.cfm. This CPI figure is posted annually in January. This
provision does not restrict the County Sanitation District from adjusting rates
in an amount greater than the CPI.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any industrial user violating any provisions regarding
pretreatment standards and requirements of §§
52.30 through
52.54 of this chapter shall be subject to civil monetary penalty in at least
the amount of $1,000 per day for each violation or criminal fines in at least
the amount of $1,000 per day for each violation.
      (2)   In addition, the POTW shall be entitled to obtain injunctive relief
for noncompliance by industrial users with the said pretreatment standards and
requirements of §§
52.30 through
52.54 of this chapter in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any person other than industrial users violating any provision §§
52.30 through
52.54 of this chapter except §
52.41 shall be served by the district or such other authority, such as the
County Health Department, with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time, not to exceed 90 days,
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (C)   Any person other than industrial users who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided for in division (B) of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be fined in
an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. Any person other
than industrial users violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500, in
addition to the penalty set forth in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.30 through
52.54 of this chapter shall become liable to the district for any expense,
loss, or damage occasioned the district by reason of such violation.
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.30 through
52.54 of this chapter may be subject to termination of their authorization to
discharge sewage into the district’s system.
   (F)   The district shall have the authority to seek injunctive relief for
any violation of the provisions of §§
52.30 through
52.54 of this chapter. The district shall have the authority to immediately
halt the discharge if there is imminent danger to the publicly owned treatment
works systems or individuals.
   (G)   Any user who knowingly and/or negligently makes any false statements,
representations or certification of any application, record, report, plan or
the document filed or required pursuant to §§
52.30 through
52.54 of this chapter or industrial user discharge permit or who falsifies,
tampers with or knowingly and/or negligently renders inaccurate any monitoring
device or method required under§§
52.30 through
52.54 of this chapter, shall be punished by a fine of at least $1,000 or by
imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or by both.
   (H)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, who fails to
carry out duties and responsibilities imposed by this chapter, or who impedes
or interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this chapter
shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   The district shall give the consumer notice by either mail or
delivery that water services will be discontinued within a specified time due
to the violation and that the consumer will have the opportunity to appeal the
termination by requesting a hearing scheduled before the district governing
body or a district official designated as a hearing officer by the governing
body.
      (2)   If such a hearing is requested by the consumer charged with
violation, he or she shall be given an opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered.
      (3)   The governing body or hearing officer shall make findings of fact
and order whether service should be terminated.
      (4)   Any person violating this article may also be prosecuted in County
District Court. Any person so charged and found guilty of violating the
provisions of this article shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor. Each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty for an initial
violation shall be a mandatory fine of $100, which may not be adjusted by the
court. In addition, such person may be required by the court to serve a
definite term of confinement in the county jail, which shall be fixed by the
court and which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty for a second violation
during a continuous period of declared shortage or emergency shall be a
mandatory fine of $200 which may not be adjusted by the court. In addition,
such person shall serve a definite term of confinement in the county jail which
shall be fixed by the court and which shall not exceed 30 days. Penalties for
additional violations shall be the same as for the second violation.
(Ord. 01-07.28.16, passed 7-28-2016)
CHAPTER 53: WATER METERS; FEE
Section
   
53.01   Service fee
   
53.02   911 Communications
   
53.03   Appeal
§ 53.01 SERVICE FEE.
   There is established, imposed and implemented a service fee on active water
services provided to occupied households, businesses, agribusinesses in the
county, calculated at $4 per active water service.
(Ord. 2.23.16, passed 2-23-2016; Ord. 02-11.28.17-3, passed 11-28-2017)
§ 53.02 911 COMMUNICATIONS.
   Every water company, water association or other entity operating a water
distribution system in the county, where specifically named herein or not,
shall collect the herein established service fee and remit amounts so
collected, on not less than a quarterly basis, to Bluegrass 911 Communications
and shall be permitted to withhold 3% of these monies for the administration of
this service fee.
(Ord. 2.23.16, passed 2-23-2016; Ord. 02-11.28.17-3, passed 11-28-2017)
§ 53.03 APPEAL.
   When any resident of the county has more than three water meters that he or
she is paying a monthly bill on, and which are not connected to a residence,
business or office, said person may file an appeal by filling out and filing
with the Bluegrass 911 Central Communication Board an appeal form, seeking
reimbursement for the fee herein imposed once per year for each meter over
three. If the appeal is granted by the Board, the individual shall be
reimbursed the amount of the fee herein imposed for each meter over three. If
the appeal is granted, the Board will also issue a 1099 tax form to the
appealing party. The appealing party must provide information to prove that
said party has paid the water bills they are requesting reimbursement for.
There shall not be a reimbursement for any meter connected to a business,
office or residence.
(Ord. 2.23.16, passed 2-23-2016)
CHAPTER 54: ENERGY PROJECT ASSESSMENT DISTRICT PROGRAM
Section
   
54.01   Establishment
   
54.02   Purpose
   
54.03   Designation
   
54.04   Administration
   
54.05   Application
   
54.06   Assessment imposed
   
54.07   Eligibility
   
54.08   Purchase of necessary materials
   
54.09   Collection, distribution of assessments
   
54.10   Fee imposed
   
54.11   Interlocal agreement
   
54.12   Amendments
§ 54.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   By this chapter and pursuant to KRS 65.205 to 65.209 (the EPAD Act) there is
established an energy project assessment district (EPAD) program within the
boundaries of Lincoln County, Kentucky (the County) to advance the conservation
and efficient use of energy and water resources within the County by allowing
for eligible energy projects to be financed by assessments imposed upon the
real property being improved through those energy projects (the EPAD Program).
All capitalized terms used in this chapter where the rules of grammar would not
otherwise require capitalization and not defined in this chapter shall have the
meanings given to them in the EPAD Act, particularly KRS 65.205.
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 54.02 PURPOSE.
   As authorized under the EPAD Act, the County Fiscal Court intends to use the
assessments imposed under the EPAD Program to support private sector Energy
Projects.
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 54.03 DESIGNATION.
   The EPAD is designated the Lincoln County EPAD. The boundaries of the
Lincoln County EPAD shall include the entire geographic territory of the
County.
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 54.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The EPAD Program shall be administered by the County (initially, the Program
Administrator). If so determined by the County Judge/Executive, the County is
authorized to engage a third-party EPAD Program Administrator to administer the
EPAD Program, and from and after that time such administrator shall be the
Program Administrator. In addition to the actions and determinations
specifically described in this chapter (as it may be amended and in effect from
time to time), the Program Administrator may take such further actions and
exercise such further discretion as may be necessary for the efficient and
effective administration of the EPAD Program, provided that all such actions
and discretion shall at all times be authorized under the EPAD Act and shall
not be inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the EPAD Program set forth
in this chapter. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Program
Administrator may from time to time develop additional eligibility criteria,
develop or adopt a handbook for the EPAD Program, develop a standard
application form, and retain third-party services in association with the
management and operation of the EPAD Program, all of the cost of which shall be
paid from fees collected with assessments imposed under the EPAD Program.
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 54.05 APPLICATION.
   In order to participate in the EPAD Program, all of the owners of record
(acting as described in § 54.07(H)) of real property located within the Lincoln
County EPAD shall submit an application to the Program Administrator. For all
purposes of the EPAD Act the application shall constitute the "petition"
described in KRS 65.206(2)(a)(3) and KRS 65.207(2)(a)(1) and the "request"
described in KRS 65.206(4). The Program Administrator shall review any
application and any documents or instruments submitted with the application
(collectively, the Application) and determine whether the Application and the
information described in the Application complies with the terms and conditions
of the EPAD Program as set forth in this chapter and the EPAD Act, each as they
may be in effect at any time. If the Program Administrator determines that the
Application and the information described in the Application comply with the
terms and conditions of the EPAD Program and the EPAD Act, the Program
Administrator shall evidence the approval of the Application by countersigning
the application. The Program Administrator's approval of the Application shall
constitute the authorized official's approval of a request from the owner of
record of real property under KRS 65.206(4).
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 54.06 ASSESSMENT IMPOSED.
   (A)   As authorized under KRS 65.206(4), following the Program
Administrator's approval of the Application and upon the execution of a
financing agreement in connection with the Application, the County may impose
an assessment upon the real property, which shall be used to repay the owner's
financing of an Energy Project on that property and the costs of any upgrades
to the electrical or gas distribution system connected to that property
necessary to accommodate the Energy Improvement. The financing for Energy
Projects under the EPAD Program may be provided by any third party or, if
authorized by the Local Government, by any Local Government that may validly
provide such financing.
   (B)   In order to impose the assessment, and as authorized under KRS 65.207,
an Application approved by the Program Administrator shall be forwarded to the
County Fiscal Court along with a proposed financing agreement for the Energy
Project described in the Application and a proposed notice of assessment in the
form required under KRS 65.207(3). The County Fiscal Court then may adopt a
Resolution approving and authorizing the financing agreement and the notice of
assessment and imposing the assessments. If approved, the financing agreement
and the notice of assessment each shall be executed, and the notice of
assessment shall be filed in the real property records of the County.
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 54.07 ELIGIBILITY.
   In order to be eligible to participate in the EPAD Program, all of the
owners of record (acting as described in division (H) below) of real property
located within the EPAD shall submit an Application setting forth the following
matters and containing the following elements:
   (A)   The names and addresses of all of the owners of record of the real
property;
   (B)   The addresses, parcel identification numbers, legal descriptions, or
other identifying information for the real property to be assessed sufficient
to allow the Program Administrator to determine that the real property is
located within the EPAD and for the County Fiscal Court to impose assessments
on the real property, including, if determined by the Program Administrator,
current title examinations, title insurance commitment letters, or other
documentation of ownership and identify of the real property;
   (C)   A technical description of the Energy Improvements to be installed or
modified on the real property, including the estimated useful life of the
energy improvements and a review of the real property's baseline energy or
water usage conditions and the energy or water savings projected to be achieved
as a result of the Energy Project;
   (D)   An estimated budget and an estimated timeline for implementation for
the Energy Project;
   (E)   Estimated financing terms for the Energy Project, including, if known,
the identity of the provider of the financing;
   (F)   The written consent of the holder of each existing mortgage lien on
the relevant property stating that the lien holder does not object to the
imposition of the assessment;
   (G)   The certification of each of the owners of record of the real property
that:
      (1)   The identity of the owners, the identity of real property, the
attributes of the Energy Project, the estimated terms of financing, the
identify and consent of all holders of mortgage lines on the property, and all
other matters described in the Application are true and correct as of the date
of submission of the Application;
      (2)   The owners, the real property, the energy project, and the
financing described in the Application are eligible for participation in the
EPAD Program under its terms and conditions and under the EPAD Act;
      (3)   None of the owners in the last three years have filed for
bankruptcy protection or had a petition in bankruptcy filed against them which
was not dismissed within 30 days; and
      (4)   That the real property is current in the payment of all obligations
secured by the real property upon which the Energy Project will be installed or
modified, including property taxes, assessments, and tax liens and that the
real property has had no delinquencies within the past three years or since the
acquisition of title to the real property if less than three years.
   (H)   Be signed by all of the owners of record of the real property to be
assessed or by any one or more of them or by any one or more of their
authorized agents, each of which is duly authorized to execute instruments
binding the real property and any non-signing owners, as such authorization may
be sufficiently evidenced to the Program Administrator in the Program
Administrator's sole discretion;
   (I)   Such other information, documents, materials, statements,
certifications, waivers, or signatures as the Program Administrator may
reasonably require from time to time in order to determine the compliance of
the application and the energy project described in the application with the
terms and conditions of the EPAD Act and the EPAD Program.
   (J)   Unless altered by the Program Administrator in accordance with §
54.04, initially all Energy Improvements, Energy Projects, and Real Property
(as defined in KRS 65.205(6) to exclude residential property consisting of
fewer than five units) eligible for participation in an EPAD Program under the
EPAD Act and located within the boundaries of the County shall be eligible for
participation in the EPAD Program.
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 54.08 PURCHASE OF NECESSARY MATERIALS.
   As authorized under KRS 65.206(6), the owners of real property approved for
participation in the EPAD Program may directly purchase or acquire by contract,
through lease, power purchase agreement, or other service contract the
equipment and materials necessary for the installation or modification of an
Energy Improvement.
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 54.09 COLLECTION, DISTRIBUTION OF ASSESSMENTS.
   As provided in KRS 65.207(4) and 65.206(c), assessments imposed upon real
property under the EPAD Program shall be collected and distributed by the
County Sheriff, or a third party servicer, as designated by the property owner
and the Program Administrator, to the County in the same manner as other
property taxes and as further provided in the Interlocal Agreement (as defined
below). Unpaid assessments shall bear the same penalty as general state and
local ad valorem taxes. The assessments, together with any interest and
penalties, shall constitute a first and prior lien against the real property on
which they are imposed from the date on which the notice of assessment is
recorded pursuant to the EPAD Act until paid. The lien of the assessments shall
have the same priority status as a lien for any other state or local ad valorem
tax upon the property.
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 54.10 FEE IMPOSED.
   As authorized under KRS 65.206(2)(c)(2), the County may impose a fee on
participating property owners to offset the costs of administering the program
in an amount which may be determined from time to time by the County, provided
that any fee so imposed shall not exceed the cost of services performed. The
cost of services performed shall include any fees or expenses to or of the
Program Administrator. Any fees so imposed may be paid by property owners or
any other persons at the closing of the financing of the costs of the related
Energy Project, may be included within the financed costs of the Energy
Project, may be added as an additional portion of each installment of the
assessments, or any combination of the above.
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 54.11 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT.
   In order to provide for the efficient collection, distribution, and
enforcement of the assessments imposed under the EPAD Program, and as
authorized under KRS 65.206(2)(d) and the Interlocal Cooperation Act (KRS
65.210 to 65.300), the Interlocal Agreement attached to Ordinance 6.25.21 as
Exhibit A is approved in substantially the form attached to Ordinance 6.25.21,
with such changes as may be approved by the County Judge/Executive and the
County Attorney and as are not materially adverse to the County Fiscal Court or
inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the EPAD Program set forth in
this chapter. That such changes are approved and are not materially adverse to
the County Fiscal Court or inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the
EPAD Program set forth in this chapter shall be conclusively evidenced by the
County Judge/Executive's execution of the Interlocal Agreement. The County
Judge/Executive is authorized to execute and deliver, in the name and on behalf
of the County Fiscal Court, the Interlocal Agreement, and the County Fiscal
Court is authorized to perform the provisions of the Interlocal Agreement. The
County Judge/Executive is further authorized to execute and deliver, and the
County Fiscal Court is further authorized to perform any amendments or
modifications to the Interlocal Agreement and any other agreements,
instruments, or certificates as may, in the County Judge/Executive's
discretion, be necessary and appropriate in connection with the Interlocal
Agreement.
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
§ 54.12 AMENDMENTS.
   The terms and conditions of the EPAD Program set forth in this chapter may
be amended by an ordinance adopted by the County Fiscal Court, except that, as
provided in KRS 65.206(2)(b), no amendment shall be adopted to retroactively
change the conditions under which an existing assessment was imposed, unless
all of the owners of record (acting as described in § 54.07(H)) of the affected
real property consent to the amendment in writing.
(Ord. 6.25.21, passed 6-25-2021)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   PARKING
CHAPTER 70: PARKING
Section
   
70.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
70.02   Manner of parking
   
70.03   Limitations on stopping and parking
   
70.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated street, road or alley
   
70.05   Parking restricted to allow street, road or alley cleaning
   
70.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
70.07   Parking on parade route
   
70.08   Owner responsibility
   
70.09   Parking in parks
   
70.10   Parking with handicapped permits
   
70.11   Impoundment of vehicle authorized; redemption
   
70.12   [Reserved]
   
70.13   Sale of vehicle
   
70.14   Announcement of snow emergency
   
70.15   Termination of emergency
   
70.16   Snow emergency routes
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or leave any vehicle or
any other item of personal property that is a nuisance, obstruction or
hindrance to the ordinary flow of traffic in or on the right-of-way of any
street, road, alley or sidewalk within the county.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle in a
travel lane of a roadway and on the side of the other vehicle stopped or parked
at the edge or curb of a street, road or alley. It shall be a defense to a
violation of this section that the stopping or parking was due to an emergency
or in the normal, ordinary and safe operation of the vehicle.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other that with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, road or alley, the left-hand side shall be so parked, except
for commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets, roads or alleys.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left parked or left standing on any
street, road or alley unless its two right wheels are within six inches of and
parallel with the curb, except that on one-way streets, roads or alleys, where
parking is permitted on the left side, the two left wheels are to be within six
inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked to the curb on any street, road or alley
except that wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading; provided,
that such loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not
consume more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at
all times and on all streets, roads or alleys in the county where any truck or
wagon so backed interferes with the use of the roadways by moving vehicles or
occupies road space within ten feet of the centerline of the street, road or
alley.
   (D)   The county may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto; however, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
on the centerline of any street, road or alley. Such diagonal parking places
shall be designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the
pavement the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which
such vehicle shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the ...[missing material]...
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
such vehicle, except in a case of emergency, or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code, or when directed by a law enforcement officer
or traffic sign or signal at any time in the following places:
      (1)   On traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in the
roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
70.02;
      (2)   On a sidewalk;
      (3)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (4)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (5)   Within an intersection or crosswalk;
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
This does not apply to law enforcement officers when operating properly
identified vehicles during the performance of their official duties or to
emergency personnel and vehicle responding to an actual or reported emergency;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacons, traffic sign or traffic-
control device;
      (8)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her
control into any such prohibited area;
      (9)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle within ten
feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to park in an area designated
as a “fire lane”. These areas shall be designated by the Fire Department in
accordance with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Code 1141 and
approval of the County Judge Executive or his or her designee. These areas are
to be marked by appropriate sign and/or paint (KRS 189.450(5), (6)).
   (B)   This section shall also apply to “fire lanes” required for businesses
under and planning and zoning ordinance and as are set forth in the plat or
development plans for the business, a copy of which are on record at any
Planning and Zoning office or the County Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREET, ROAD OR ALLEY.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at times herein specified or as indicated
on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a law
enforcement office or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit of parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicle in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of section
below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on any
street, road or alley so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sunday on any
street, road or alley so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The County Fiscal Court shall determine on what streets, roads
or alleys or portions thereof stopping or parking shall be restricted or
prohibited. Whenever under authority of or by this traffic code or any other
ordinance any parking limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated
street, road or alleys, or parking areas are restricted to handicapped parking,
appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice thereof; however, in lieu of
erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith, the face and top of a curb or
curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited at all times may be painted
a solid yellow color, to give notice parking is prohibited or painted blue to
give parking notice of handicap parking only.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs.
   (H)   There shall be no parking in any area marked as such through the use
of yellow-painted curbs. This shall include areas marked with “No Parking,” No
Parking This Side” or “No Parking Here to Corner” signs.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to park opposed to traffic, on any street, road
or alley within the county.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to park on the right-of-way of any street, road
or alley and within 20 feet of a street, road, alley intersection or within ten
feet of a private or public driveway.
   (K)   No parking will be allowed when the distance from the edge of the
pavement (EOP) to the curb line is less than eight feet, EOP is to be defined
by the State Department of Transportation and/or the county’s planning and
zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET, ROAD OR ALLEY CLEANING.
   The county is authorized to designate street, road or alley cleaning areas
and shall provide suitable signs and markings on the street, road or alley to
be cleaned, restricting parking on that particular day. It shall be unlawful
for the operator of any vehicle to stop on any street, road or alley, so
designated.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park any vehicle in any one place on the
right-of-way of any right- of-way of any street, road or alleys of the county
for a period of greater than 24 hours. Any vehicle left parked in any one place
on any street, road or alleys, of the county for a period longer that 24 hours
shall be deemed abandoned, and shall be subject to all existing regulations of
the county pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Sheriff or other authorized county official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street, road or alley or apart thereof
constituting a part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary
traffic signs to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicles will be removed at the
owner’s expense.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provision of
this subchapter regulating stopping, leaving abandoning, or parking of
vehicles, it shall be prima facie evidence that the automobile is registered in
the name of the owner, who shall be liable for the violation.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the county
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate count ordinances or state laws or regulations for handicapped
person, may be parked in a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked
in a metered parking space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when
parked where any parking limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess
of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for the
period of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person
to or from the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
   (C)   No parking will be allowed in any handicap space unless a proper
handicap permit and/or license plate is properly displayed.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLE AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All law enforcement officers are empowered to authorize the
impoundment of a vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a parking
citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the County Sheriff’s office. Should a vehicle be moved without the
consent and approval of the Sheriff’s office, any person moving such a vehicle
without consent shall be liable for any fees imposed on the vehicle and any
other criminal violations or misdemeanors that arise from such actions.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 70.12 [RESERVED].
§ 70.13 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles in
either a private capacity or for the county who has complied with the
notification requirements of §
70.15 shall have a lien on the motor vehicle for the applicable and reasonable
charges assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.932, as long as it
remains in his or her possession. If after a period of 45 days, the applicable
and reasonable charges assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.932
have not been paid, the motor vehicle may be sold to pay the charges after the
owner and any lienholder have been notified by certified mail at the addresses
specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten business days prior to the time and place of
the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section
are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale and collection of
proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment
of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle.
This lien shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any
existing lienholder pursuant to KRS 376.275(1)(c).
(KRS 376.275(1)) (Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 70.14 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Sheriff or other authorized county official finds that falling
snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it necessary
that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or
whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow, sleet or
freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may be create a
condition making necessary that such parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time
specified by him or her. After the effective time of such prohibition no person
shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow
emergency route; however, if all of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs after
11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Sheriff or other authorized county
official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the Sheriff or other authorized county
official under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he or
she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Sheriff or other authorized county official shall find that
some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition
no longer exist, he or she authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement. If such
announcement is made other that between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m., it shall be
repeated between those hours.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 70.16 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Sheriff
or other authorized county official. On such street, road or alley or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the
county shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall pay a penalty
set forth in the following:
      (1)   Parking in a handicap space without a permit: $50;
      (2)   Parking in a fire lane: $50;
      (3)   Parking in a towed lane of a roadway:
         (a)   State or federal highway: $100; and
         (b)   County road: $50.
      (4)   Improper display of handicap permit while parked in handicap space:
$25; and
      (5)   All other violations of this chapter: $25.
   (B)   Any penalty imposed herein shall be paid within 14 days to the County
Sheriff’s office, the mailing address of same shall be noted on the citation
issued.
   (C)   Any penalty imposed herein shall become the liability of the owner of
the vehicle found in violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Any penalty not paid within 14 days shall be referred to the County
District Court for further proceedings, through the issuance of a criminal
citation.
   (E)   Any violation referred to County District Court pursuant to this
section shall be deemed to be a violation as defined in state statutes, and
shall be subject to any and all penalties set forth therein.
(Ord. 03-5-13-08, passed 5-13-2008)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   CEMETERIES
      
95.   ADDRESS NUMBERING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Livestock Running at Large
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Prohibited activities
   
90.03   Impoundment of livestock
Dogs Running at Large; Public Nuisance; Vicious Dogs
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Licensing; chips
   
90.17   Kennels
   
90.18   Control of dog
   
90.19   Enforcement; inspection
 
   
90.99   Penalty
LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENCLOSURE. Includes any and all fields, farms, lots or other area of land
which is completely surrounded by any fence or structure to which entry can
only be made by way of a gate or door.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes all domesticated animals that are normally raised or
kept on farm property whether they are raised for profit or otherwise, and
shall include, but not be limited to, horses, pigs, sheep, goats, donkeys and
mules; however, this definition shall not include dogs, cats or cattle.
   STRAY LIVESTOCK. Any animal for which the owner is no longer claiming
ownership or for which the owner cannot be determined, and which is included in
the definition of “livestock” herein.
(Ord. 03-04.12.11, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 90.02 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No person shall permit any livestock owned by him or her or under his or her
control or in his or her custody to run at large. Livestock shall be kept in an
enclosure on property owned by the owner of the livestock or on property for
which the owner of the livestock has permission or an agreement to keep
livestock on.
(Ord. 03-04.12.11, passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 IMPOUNDMENT OF LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   The Sheriff or any other peace officer shall impound any livestock
found running at large in the county or stray livestock, and the owner or
bailee of the cattle shall pay to the officer impounding, for each head
impounded, $1 and the cost of feeding and caring for the livestock, per head.
The Sheriff may place the livestock so impounded with another person for
purposes of feeding and caring for the livestock, and in such case the person
holding the livestock for the Sheriff or at his or her direction or request
shall be entitled to receive the fee set forth herein, plus the cost of feeding
and caring for the livestock. The Sheriff or his or her agent shall have a lien
on the impounded livestock for his or her fee and expenses in caring for the
livestock.
   (B)   In the event that the owner of the livestock, or his or her agent,
does not redeem the livestock by paying the fee imposed herein and the cost of
feeding and caring for the livestock within 60 days subsequent to said
livestock being impounded, the livestock shall be sold at a regular livestock
auction. From the proceeds of the sale, the Sheriff or his or her agent shall
receive his or her costs and fee with the balance being paid to the owner of
the livestock. In the event the owner cannot be identified, the balance shall
be paid to the County Fiscal Court for use in caring for abandoned or abused
animals located within the county.
(Ord. 03-04.12.11, passed 5-10-2011)
DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE; PUBLIC NUISANCE; VICIOUS DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULL MASTIFF. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed known by said
name and having DNA of said breed, and includes English Mastiff and Neapolitan
Mastiff.
   CANE CORSO. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed known by said
name and having DNA of said breed, and includes Italian Mastiff and Molosser.
   CAUCASIAN OVCHARKA. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed known by
said name and having DNA of said breed, and includes Caucasian Shepherd.
   CHOW. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed known by said name and
having DNA of said breed.
   DOBERMAN PINCHER. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed known by
said name and having DNA of said breed.
   DOG. Any canine three months of age or older for which there exists a United
States Department of Agriculture approved rabies vaccine.
(KRS 258.005(1)
   DOG BREED. Any dog with the DNA of a specific type or lineage of dog
recognized as a specific type of dog by the American Kennel Club or other group
recognizing or certifying the DNA as a specific identifiable dog.
   DOGO ARGENTINO. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed known by
said name and having DNA of said breed, and includes Argentine Mastiff.
   EUTHANASIA. The act of putting an animal to death in a humane manner by
methods specified as acceptable for that species by the most recent report of
the American Veterinary Medical Association Panel on Euthanasia, subject to the
requirements provided by KRS 258.505 and KRS 258.095(12).
   GULL DONG. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed known by said
name and having DNA of said breed, and includes Bully Kutter and Aluga Mastiff.
   LARGE DOG. Any dog, without regard to the breed of said dog, weighing more
than 80 pounds.
   OWNER. When applied to the proprietorship of a dog, includes every person
having a right of property in the dog and every person who keeps or harbors the
dog, or has it in his or her care, or permits it to remain on or about premises
owned or occupied by him or her.
(KRS 258.095(5)).
   PERRO DE PRESA CANARIO. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed
known by said name and having DNA of said breed, and includes Dogo Canario.
   PITT BULL. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed known by said
name and having DNA of said breed, and includes American pit bull terrier,
Staffordshire terrier and Bull terrier.
   POSSESSOR. Any person having physical custody of a dog or any person
controlling the movement of a dog by use or means of a cage or pen or other
enclosure or by means of chain or leash or other “tie down.”
   ROTTWEILER. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed known by said
name and having DNA of said breed.
   TOSA INU. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed known by said name
and having DNA of said breed, and includes Tosa Ken and Japanese mastiff.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog any individual dog declared by a court to be a vicious
dog (KRS 258.095(7)).
   WOLF HYBRID. Any dog having the characteristics of the breed known by said
name and having DNA of said breed.
(Ord. 2.23.16, passed 2-23-2016)
§ 90.16 LICENSING; CHIPS.
   (A)   All dogs which are classified into one of the breeds specifically
listed in division (D) below, or which is a large dog as defined herein, shall
be licensed and said license shall include the name, address and phone number
of the owner.
   (B)   All dogs required to be licensed by the terms of this subchapter shall
also have an identity “chip” installed, and the cost of the “chip” shall be
paid by the county from the fee collected for the license.
   (C)   Any transfer of ownership of the dog shall be reported to the County
Animal Shelter within three business days of the transfer.
   (D)   Any animal required to have a “chip” which is found in the county and
which does not have the “chip” shall be taken into the custody of the County
Animal Shelter, and prior to the release of said dog, a “chip” shall be
installed, and the dog shall be spayed or neutered, and the cost of all such
procedures shall be the responsibility of the person seeking the release of the
dog from the animal shelter.
   (E)   The owners of all dogs required to be fitted with an identity “chip”
at the time of adoption of this subchapter shall have 90 days to come into
compliance. After this 90-day grace period has passed, all dogs subject to this
subchapter shall be dealt with pursuant to §
90.15(D) without exception.
   (F)   Any dog declared “vicious” shall be subject to this subchapter and
shall be fitted with an identity “chip” within seven days of the determination
that said dog is “vicious”, or surrendered to the County Animal Shelter. This
section shall apply without regard to the breed or size of the dog which has
been declared vicious.
(Ord. 2.23.16, passed 2-23-2016)
§ 90.17 KENNELS.
   (A)   All entities owning or possessing three or more of the dogs set forth
in §
90.15 shall have a kennel license and shall specify the color, age, sex and
type of dog possessed or owned. The license shall include the name, address and
phone number of the kennel.
   (B)   If a person owns or possesses three large dogs as defined herein, but
said dogs are not kept for breeding purposes, then this section shall not
apply.
      (1)   No kennel shall keep more than five dogs of the defined breeds
listed in §
90.15, which are more than 13 weeks of age.
      (2)   Any kennel possessing dogs not owned by the kennel owner shall
maintain a list of owners of the dogs so kept with current address and phone
number for the owner of the dog.
      (3)   The owner of any kennel shall file with his or her application for
a license, proof of liability insurance for any damage caused by dogs owned or
possessed by the kennel owner with a minimum limit of liability of $200,000 per
claim.
(Ord. 2.23.16, passed 2-23-2016)
§ 90.18 CONTROL OF DOG.
   (A)   All persons owning or possessing a dog referenced in §
90.15 shall have said dog under their control at all times unless said dog is
confined in a pen or other enclosure.
   (B)   If the person owning or possessing a dog specified in §
90.15 has only one of the dogs so specified and said dog is spayed or neutered
and has the identity chip installed pursuant to the terms of this subchapter,
then it shall not be required to have said dog confined when the owner or
possessor is not in direct control of said dog.
   (C)   Any person who owns or possesses a dog specified in §
90.15 shall comply with divisions (A) and (B) above, or said person shall have
a pen meeting the requirements of this section. Persons meeting all the
requirements of this subchapter and owning or possessing a dog specified in §
90.15 may have a pen which does not meet these requirements.
   (D)   For any pen or enclosure required by this subchapter, the requirements
shall be that the pen or enclosure be at least six feet in height, measured
from the floor of the pen or enclosure. The floor of the pen or enclosure shall
be made and comprised of an impervious material such as concrete or asphalt.
      (1)   All fences shall be constructed of “chain link” fence of at least
nine gauge wire with a mesh of two inches or smaller.
      (2)   All posts for the fence shall be two and one-half inches outside
diameter (OD) and at least 15 gauge material. There shall be a post at least
every six feet in any fence line of more than six feet in length.
      (3)   All fence shall have a bottom rail and a top rail which shall be
attached to the wire mesh at least every eight inches and shall be attached to
the posts.
      (4)   All corners shall have double posts which shall be attached to each
other at least every six inches. The connectors for such posts shall be of a
type which has no open side whereby the post could be dislodged from the
connecting material without a break or cut being made to the material. It is
suggested that the posts be tied together with wire of at least nine gauge.
      (5)   Wooden fences are allowed, but all posts must be six-inch by six-
inch square with connecting boards being two-inch by six-inch or larger and
fencing material must be a minimum actual thickness of one inch or more. All
wooden fences shall be constructed using screws. All posts must be connected to
two other posts by at least three boards, with one at the top, middle and
bottom of the fence facing. All post connecting boards shall be on the outside
of the fence facing. The inner surface of the wooden fence shall be one
continuous surface from the top to the bottom.
      (6)   The inside of a residence shall qualify as an acceptable pen or
enclosure, so long as there are no “dog doors” whereby the dog may come and go
from the inside of the residence without the knowledge of the owner or
possessor. Also, if a residence is to be used and qualified as the pen or
enclosure, there shall be window coverings of glass, wood or metal which are
capable of deterring the dog from leaving the residence (window “screens” are
not sufficient to qualify under this section). No second fence will be required
if a residence is the qualifying pen or enclosure. No kennel may use a
residence as its qualifying pen or enclosure.
      (7)   Any door permitting access to any pen shall have two mechanisms for
locking the door, and at least one of said mechanisms shall be locked using a
padlock or other similar lock, which requires a key or combination to unlock.
      (8)   In the event a pen is constructed which requires inspection prior
to its use for holding dogs, the following shall be required, if the pen or
enclosure fails inspection on at least two instances, or if there is a verified
escape of a dog from the pen or enclosure (escape meaning leaving the pen or
enclosure while not under the direct control of the owner or possessor of the
dog) there shall be a second fence located not more than 24 inches or less than
12 inches from primary fence, and said “secondary” fence shall meet all the
requirements of the “primary” fence.
   (E)   All dogs shall be kept on a leash or lead when not in a pen or other
enclosure, and said dog shall be on a leash or lead of such quality to be rated
for minimum weight of the dog to which it is attached.
   (F)   Any dog declared to be vicious by any court of competent jurisdiction
shall be in a pen built to the same standards as the pens or enclosures
required for kennels hereunder. In addition, any dog declared vicious shall
have a “vicious” dog license issued whereby the authorities specified herein
shall be granted the right of entry onto premises where the dog is located for
purposes of inspecting the pen or enclosure.
(Ord. 2.23.16, passed 2-23-2016)
§ 90.19 ENFORCEMENT; INSPECTION.
   (A)   The County Dog Warden or other employees of the County Fiscal Court
whose designated work station is the County Animal Shelter and all law
enforcement personnel having jurisdiction within the county shall have the
power and authority to enter upon the premises of any person licensed to
operate a kennel pursuant to this subchapter for purposes of inspecting the
kennel and all pens located on the premises. The application for a kennel
license pursuant to this subchapter shall be an explicit grant of authority for
the limited entry for kennel inspections.
   (B)   Prior to the operation of a kennel pursuant to this subchapter, the
owner or operator of said kennel shall apply for a license and allow an
inspection by one of the persons specified in division (A) above.
   (C)   The persons specified in division (A) above shall have the power to
require modifications to the pens to meet the minimum standards required
hereunder.
   (D)   No dogs shall occupy any pen prior to the approval of one of the
officials designated in division (A) above, and no conditional approval may be
granted by any of the officials specified herein.
   (E)   There shall be a fee of $250 per year for any kennel license issued
pursuant to this subchapter, which shall be paid to the County Fiscal Court. In
addition, any kennel which does not pass inspection shall be assessed a $50 fee
for each and every follow up inspection which is necessary to confirm that the
required modifications have been made to the pens.
   (F)   All licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall have a fee of
$25 for individual dogs, except a license for any dog declared vicious shall
have a fee of $100. All licenses shall be valid for one year from the date of
issuance.
   (G)   Any pen erected or installed pursuant to §
90.19(C) shall be subject to the inspection provisions for a pen installed
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2.23.16, passed 2-23-2016)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.03 shall be fined $10 for a first offense in any 12-month time period. For a
second offense in any 12-month time period, a fine of up to $25 may be imposed.
For a third offense in any 12-month time period, a fine of up to $100 may be
imposed.
      (2)   Every separate animal shall constitute a separate offense except
for enhancement purposes.
   (C)   (1)   Any person knowingly violating any provision of §§
90.15 through
90.19 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor for the first violation.
      (2)   Any person knowingly violating any provision of §§
90.15 through
90.19 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor for second or subsequent
violations.
      (3)   For any violation of the “kennel” provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.19, every dog on the premises for which the owner or operator of the kennel
is found to be in violation shall be a separate violation of §§
90.15 through
90.19.
      (4)   Any person who is found guilty of violating §§
90.15 through
90.19 on two or more occasions shall be barred from owning or possessing any of
the dogs listed in division (C)(1) above for a period of 12 months, and shall
be barred from operating a kennel under the provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.19 for a period of 24 months from the date of conviction.
      (5)   Any dog found on premises in violation of §§
90.15 through
90.19 shall be subject to immediate seizure by the County Dog Warden, and dog
seized pursuant to this division (C) shall not be returned to the owner until
said owner has secured the appropriate license and paid any and all fines and
fees due because of said violation.
      (6)   Any dog seized pursuant to this division (C) shall incur a boarding
fee of $20 per day for each and every day that said dog is in the possession of
the County Animal Shelter.
      (7)   Any dog seized pursuant to this division (C) shall be euthanized if
said dog is not claimed by the owner and all fees paid within ten days.
      (8)   All dogs declared vicious by any court of competent jurisdiction
which are in the possession of the County Animal Shelter shall be spayed or
neutered prior to return to the owner thereof, and the cost for such procedure
shall be reimbursed by the owner of the animal.
(Ord. 03-04.12.11, passed 5-10-2011; Ord. 2.23.16, passed 2-23-2016)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Prohibited acts and/or omissions
   
91.03   Establishment of Hearing Board
   
91.04   Initiating nuisance complaint; enforcement; notice; service and
contents
   
91.05   Abatement; lien
   
91.06   Appeal to Hearing Board; procedure; District Court
   
91.07   Delegation of enforcement responsibility
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A local government’s costs for and associated with
cleaning, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a portion of
a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a structure
or premises to maintain and preserve public health, safety and welfare in
accordance with the portion of a local government’s nuisance code pertaining to
the condition of and maintenance of structure or premises, adopted pursuant to
state statutes. These costs shall include local government’s cost in hiring any
individual or business entity to take any nuisance abatement action on its
behalf.
   HEARING BOARD. A body established by ordinance and empowered to conduct
hearings pursuant to KRS 82.710 and composed of one or more persons appointed
by the county Judge/Executive of the local government. HEARING BOARD also means
any Hearing Officers appointed by the Board. Any action of a Hearing Officer
shall be deemed to be the action of the BOARD.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A consolidated local government, county, urban-county
government, charter county government, unified local government or a city of
any class.
   NUISANCE. An act prohibited by this chapter, including public nuisances and
public nuisances affecting health, which terms are defined as follows:
      (1)   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of
property which shall continue for a length of time so as to:
         (a)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health,
repose or safety of the public;
         (b)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
         (c)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
         (d)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water or other public way.
      (2)   PUBLIC NUISANCE AFFECTING HEALTH. Includes, but is not limited to,
the following acts, omissions, conditions or things:
         (a)   Accumulations of junked or inoperable automobiles, numbering
more than three, accumulations of trash, rubbish, bedding, packing material,
scrap metal or any material whatsoever in which flies, mosquitoes, disease-
carrying insects, rats or other vermin may breed;
         (b)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, debris, obnoxious acids,
fumes or gases within the county in such quantities so as to substantially
annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose or safety of the public
or to threaten or cause substantial injury to property; and
         (c)   Any use of property, substances or things within the county
emitting or causing any foul, offensive, nauseous, noxious or disagreeable
odors, effluvia or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical sense of
ordinary person which annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the health of
any appreciable number of persons with the county.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. passed 8-23-2011)
§ 91.02 PROHIBITED ACTS AND/OR OMISSIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of premises within the county, to permit
or cause a nuisance to develop or exist thereon.
(Ord. passed 8-23-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF HEARING BOARD.
   (A)   The County Nuisance Abatement Hearing Board is hereby established and
is hereby authorized to conduct hearings. The Board shall be composed of five
members appointed by the County Judge/Executive subject to the approval of the
Fiscal Court.
   (B)   Board members shall serve as Hearing Officers pursuant to this
chapter. Any action of a Hearing Officer shall be deemed to be the action of
the Board.
   (C)   The jurisdiction of Hearing Officers to conduct hearings, issue orders
and impose penalties shall be only that specifically granted by ordinance or
statute.
   (D)   The initial appointment shall be for one-, two-, three-, four- and
five-year terms. After expiration of each term, all re-appointments shall be
for three-year terms. The maximum consecutive terms of any appointee shall not
exceed six years; however, the person appointed for the initial one-year term
shall be eligible to serve seven consecutive years and the person appointed for
the initial two-year term shall be eligible to serve eight consecutive years.
The County Judge/Executive may also appoint alternate members who may serve in
the absence of a regular Hearing Board member. The terms and appointments of
the alternate members shall be the same as the regular members.
   (E)   Each member of the Hearing Board shall be compensated for his or her
services as authorized by the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. passed 8-23-2011)
§ 91.04 INITIATING NUISANCE COMPLAINT; ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE; SERVICE AND
CONTENTS.
   (A)   Generally. Enforcement of this chapter shall be administered by the
County Nuisance Hearing Board and Hearing Officer, and any citizen aggrieved,
including, but not limited to, any citizen owning property adjacent to the
property on which the alleged nuisance exists, may apply to the Board through
the office of the County Judge/Executive to obtain an investigation by the
Hearing Officer to determine whether a nuisance exists on the offending
premises. The County Judge/Executive shall, within ten days of receiving a
complaint, forward a copy of the complaint to the Hearing Officer and the
magistrate in whose district the property complained of is located.
   (B)   Investigating the complaint. Upon investigating the complaint, the
Hearing Officer shall determine whether a nuisance exists on the offending
premises. If the Hearing Officer determines that a nuisance exists on the
offending premises, the Hearing Officer shall proceed to provide notice of the
violation to the owner of the offending premises. The determination of the
Hearing Officer that a nuisance exists shall be final unless the owner of the
premises requests a hearing before the Hearing Board within 30 days of notice
being received by the owner of the premises.
   (C)   Provision of notice. 
      (1)   Notice shall be provided to the owner of premises on which the
nuisance exists by personal service or by sending the notice via certified mail
to the last known of address of such owner, and by posting the notice
conspicuously upon the offending premises.
      (2)   The notice shall include the following:
         (a)   The notice shall described the nuisance and demand that the
nuisance shall be abated within 30 days of the notice, unless such nuisance
constitutes an immediate danger to the health and well-being of the community,
or adjoining property owners, in which case the notice shall demand abatement
within 24 hours of the notice;
         (b)   A statement to the effect that a determination has been made
that a violation has been committed and that if the nuisance is not abated
within the prescribed time, the local government or any individual or entity
acting on its behalf may proceed to abate the nuisance;
         (c)   A statement to the effect that the Hearing Officer’s
determination shall be final if no appeal to the Hearing Board is filed by the
owner within 30 days of notice being provided by the Hearing Officer;
         (d)   A statement to the effect that the abatement costs constitute a
lien against the property in favor of the County Fiscal Court; and
         (e)   A statement to the effect that after the County Fiscal Court has
abated the nuisance, the County Judge/Executive will send an invoice for the
abatement costs, and if such invoice is not paid within 30 days following the
mailing of the invoice, that notice of a lien for the cost of the abatement
will be placed against the property.
   (D)   Commencement of notice period. The notice periods provided for in this
division (D) shall be determined to commence as follows:
      (1)   Where notice is personally served, on the day following service;
      (2)   Where notice is by mail, on the third day following mailing; and
      (3)   Where notice is by posting, on the third day following posting.
(Ord. passed 8-23-2011)
§ 91.05 ABATEMENT; LIEN.
   (A)   Creation of lien. The County Fiscal Court shall have a lien against
the property upon which the nuisance exists for its abatement costs incurred in
abating, correcting or remedying any violation of this chapter. The affidavit
of the County Judge/Executive, or Solid Waste Enforcement Officer, shall
constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of
the proceeding pursuant to this chapter, and shall be recorded in the office of
the County Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest thereafter until paid at the legal rate of
12% per annum. The lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent
liens, except ad valorem taxes due the commonwealth, the county and other
taxing district or municipalities, and may be enforced by the filing of an
action to enforce such lien in the County Circuit Court.
   (B)   Perfection of lien. The lien hereby created shall be evidenced by a
notice of lien filed in the County Clerk’s office, which notice shall include
the affidavit of the County Judge/Executive describing the subject property and
the amount of the Fiscal Court’s cost of abatement as provided herein. The
Fiscal Court shall invoice the property owner or occupant of such premises at
least once following abatement and no notice of lien claims shall be filed
against the property until 30 days have elapsed since such post-abatement
invoice is sent. A copy of the notice of lien claimed shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises at his or her last known address, and posted on the
property. The failure to mail the owner a copy of such notice or failure to
post same, or failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for such charges as provided herein above.
   (C)   Personal liability for lien. In addition to the lien remedy prescribed
herein or any other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a property upon
which a lien has been attached pursuant to this section shall be personally
liable for the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil penalties and
other charges. The Fiscal Court may bring a civil action against the owner and
shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
   (D)   Property to be sold. Any action to enforce the lien herein shall be
filed in the County Circuit Court by the Fiscal Court and shall name as
defendants all owners or other persons holding a recorded interest in the
subject property. Property subject to a lien for unpaid abatement charges
herewith may be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale
shall be applied to pay the abatement charges after deducting costs as is the
case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
   (E)   Release of lien. The County Attorney or his or her assistant is hereby
authorized and directed to execute a release of the lien provided for herein
upon payment in full of the abatement charges evidenced by the lien. The
release shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. passed 8-23-2011)
§ 91.06 APPEAL TO HEARING BOARD; PROCEDURE; DISTRICT COURT.
   (A)   Time for appeal to Hearing Board. Within 30 days of notice of a
violation being given to the property owner by the Hearing Officer, any owner
may appeal the Hearing Officer’s decision to be heard by the Hearing Board by
filing a notice of appeal at the County Judge/Executive’s office. Upon filing
of the appeal, no further abatement action shall be taken prior to the decision
of the Hearing Board.
   (B)   Notice of hearing, contents. The Board shall notify the alleged
offending party of the hearing before the Hearing Board by notice not less than
ten days in advance of the date set for the hearing.
      (1)   The notice shall be served on the parties by personal service or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address.
      (2)   The notice required by this section shall be in plain language and
shall include:
         (a)   A statement of the date, time, place and nature of the hearing;
         (b)   A statement of the issues involved in sufficient detail to give
the parties reasonable opportunity to prepare evidence and argument;
         (c)   A reference to the specific provision of this chapter which
relates to the issues involved;
         (d)   A statement advising the person of his or her right to legal
counsel; and
         (e)   A statement advising that any party who fails to attend or
participate as required at any stage of the administrative hearing process may
be held in default.
   (C)   Hearings.
      (1)   An officer or officers of the Nuisance Abatement Hearing Board
shall preside over the conduct of an administrative hearing and shall regulate
the course of the proceedings in a manner which will promote the orderly and
prompt conduct of the hearing.
      (2)   To the extent necessary for the full disclosure of all relevant
facts and issues, a Hearing Officer shall afford all parties the opportunity to
respond, present documentary or tangible evidence, conduct cross-examination,
and submit rebuttal evidence.
      (3)   Any party to an administrative hearing may participate in person
and/or be represented by counsel.
      (4)   If a party fails to attend or participate in a hearing, a Hearing
Officer may adjourn the proceedings and issue a default order.
      (5)   In an administrative hearing, findings of fact shall be based
exclusively on the evidence on the record. The strict rules of evidence
governing civil proceedings shall not apply.
      (6)   All testimony shall be made under oath or affirmation. Any part of
the evidence may be received in written format if doing so will expedite the
hearing without substantial prejudice to the interests of any party, or if such
practice is authorized by statute. Any party shall have the right to inspect
the documentary or tangible evidence relating to an administrative hearing
either in person or by counsel. Copies of documentary evidence may be obtained
upon the payment of a fee, except documents protected from disclosure by state
or federal law.
      (7)   Objections to evidentiary offers may be made by any party and shall
be noted in the record.
      (8)   A Hearing Officer may take official notice of any matter of which a
court of the commonwealth may take such notice.
      (9)   A Hearing Officer shall cause all testimony in a hearing to be
accurate completely recorded. Any person, upon request, may receive a copy of
the recording. A Hearing Officer may prepare a transcript of a hearing upon
request, but the party making the request shall be responsible for the cost
thereof.
   (D)   Orders and appeals.
      (1)   Within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the hearing, a
Hearing Officer shall issue a written order which shall include findings of
fact, conclusions of law, and disposition of the hearing, including penalties,
if any. A copy of the order shall be sent to each party.
      (2)   An appeal from the Hearing Board’s determination may be made to the
District Court of the county within 30 days of the Board’s determination. The
appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the
Board’s order in the same manner as any civil action under the Rules of Civil
Procedure. The action shall be tried de novo and the burden shall be upon the
local government to establish that a violation occurred. If the court finds
that a violation occurred, the owner shall be ordered to pay to the local
government all fines, fees, and penalties occurring as of the date of the
judgment. If the court finds a violation did not occur, the local government
shall be ordered to dismiss the notice and the plaintiff shall be authorized to
recover his or her costs.
      (3)   A judgment of the District Court may be appealed to the Circuit
Court in accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. passed 8-23-2011)
§ 91.07 DELEGATION OF ENFORCEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the County Judge/Executive, and/or the
County Sheriff, and/or the County Attorney, and/or the Hearing Board and
Hearing Officer as established herein.
(Ord. passed 8-23-2011)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner of premises who fails to abate the nuisance within 30 days
of receipt of notice from the Hearing Officer shall be subject to civil
penalties of not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each date that a violation
continues after 30 days has passed since the receipt of notice shall constitute
a separate offenses. This civil penalty shall apply in addition to the
abatement procedures provided for in this chapter, or in lieu thereof, where no
abatement procedures are performed by the County Fiscal Court.
   (B)   The procedures and remedies contained herein shall not be deemed to be
exclusive, and any party aggrieved by a public or private nuisance shall retain
all rights as granted elsewhere in common law and statutory law for the redress
of nuisances.
(Ord. passed 8-23-2011)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   Reimbursement; submission of improvement
   
92.02   County requirements
   
92.03   Responsibility
   
92.04   Completion of improvements
   
92.05   Speed bumps
§ 92.01 REIMBURSEMENT; SUBMISSION OF IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   Prior to submission of a street for maintenance and the street is
relative to a subdivision, either new or an extension of an existing street,
the developer, subdivider or builder of the street shall fully and completely
reimburse the county for any and all fees and costs paid to any engineer or
engineering firm retained by the county to review the construction techniques
of the street, and review of any associated plat.
   (B)   Prior to the acceptance by the Fiscal Court of maintenance of any road
or street, as described above, the developer, subdivider or builder shall have
fully, and completely reimbursed the county for any and all fees and costs paid
to any engineer or engineering firm retained by the county for the purpose of
construction inspection. It is the intent of this chapter that all costs
incurred by the county for any engineer or engineering firm shall be the
responsibility of the developer, subdivider or builder and the reimbursement
shall be a condition for approving any road or street as described above for
county maintenance.
(2001 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. passed 9-14-2000)
Statutory reference:
   County roads, see KRS Chapter 178
§ 92.02 COUNTY REQUIREMENTS.
   The county, by and through the Fiscal Court, or its authorized agents, may
require that one-inch bituminous surface course not be applied to any selected
subdivision streets or roads until after completion of at least 75% of
subdivision buildings in the associated subdivision. The Fiscal Court may, at
its option, accept streets or roads prior to the application of the surface
course provided that the Fiscal Court retains a maintenance and performance
guarantee to ensure that the existing road is properly maintained and to ensure
that the road is completed once the subdivision is fully developed.
(2001 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. passed 9-14-2000)
§ 92.03 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The developer, subdivider or builder shall be responsible for the
maintenance and repair of the improvements installed and shall be responsible
for any damage done to the improvements by construction traffic, local traffic
or by any other means and shall ensure accessibility to all occupied lots until
final acceptance for maintenance by the county. Upon completion of work and
before acceptance by the county for maintenance, the developer, subdivider or
builder shall clean up all ground occupied or affected in connection with the
work. Failure to maintain or repair improvements shall result in billing the
developer, subdivider or builder for the services performed by county
employees, or their agents. Payment for services shall be guaranteed by the
performance bond or other instrument used as the guarantee.
   (B)   An amount of 50% of the final cost of roads, streets and associated
gutters and curbs, shall be retained from the original instrument of
construction guarantee, or a new instrument posted, at the developer subdivider
or builder’s option, with the Fiscal Court at the time of public acceptance of
the road or street and 50% shall be retained for two years to guarantee the
quality of construction of the road, street and associated gutters and curbs.
(2001 Code, § 92.03) (Ord. passed 9-14-2000)
§ 92.04 COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the final submission of the road or street for county
maintenance, the developer, subdivider or builder shall complete all required
improvements to the satisfaction of the County Engineer and the appropriate
utilities who will certify their satisfactory completion in writing to the
Fiscal Court.
   (B)   (1)   The developer, subdivider or builder shall submit to the Fiscal
Court or the County Engineer an estimated cost calculated to be reasonably
necessary to complete all of the improvements required for their review and
approval. The Fiscal Court hereby establishes the bond amount at 125% of the
cost approved and deemed sufficient.
      (2)   The bond may be in the form of a surety bond, certified check,
irrevocable letter of credit or a cash bond or negotiable United States
Treasury certificates of the kind approved by law for securing deposits of
public money. The bond shall be executed by the developer, subdivider or
builder as principal, and if a surety bond, shall be executed by a corporation
authorized to act as a surety under the laws of the state, as surety. The bond
shall be a joint bond and several obligations, faithful performance of any and
all work and the construction and installation of all improvements required to
be done by the developer, subdivider or builder together with all engineering
and inspection costs and fees incurred by the county. The bond shall contain
further condition that should the developer, subdivider or builder fail to
complete all work and improvements to be done by him or her within 12 calendar
months of the point of beginning, or upon a mutually agreed to extension of
time not to exceed an additional 12 calendar months. The parties executing the
bond shall be firmly bound for the payment of all necessary costs therefor.
      (3)   Whenever the developer, subdivider or builder elects to deposit
cash, certified check or approved negotiable United States Treasury
Certificates, the Fiscal Court is hereby authorized, in the event of any
default on the part of the developer, subdivider or builder or the performance
of any work for which the cash or negotiable instrument or bond has been
deposited, to cause the required work to be done and to withdraw that amount
required for payment of all costs therefor.
(2001 Code, § 92.04) (Ord. passed 9-14-2000)
§ 92.05 SPEED BUMPS.
   (A)   Speed bumps, or equivalent traffic control device, shall be of the
type approved by the State Department of Transportation Specification for Road
and Bridge Construction, (latest edition), and shall be installed in a manner
that is consistent with the above.
   (B)   No speed bumps shall be installed unless 50% of the property owners on
the street on which the speed bumps are sought to be installed present a
written and signed petition to the Fiscal Court.
   (C)   Within 30 days thereafter, the Fiscal Court shall notify the County
Engineer or Road Superintendent of the request allowing for sufficient time to
review, and then hold a public hearing on the petition. Notice of the public
hearing shall be given by publication in the newspaper and a letter mailed to
all property owners on the street. (For purposes of this, the addresses listed
for the property owners in the County Property Valuation Administrator’s office
shall be used.) If the County Engineer and/or Road Superintendent approve of
the request and if 50% of the abutting property owners agree in writing to
accept the installation of speed bumps, the Fiscal Court may instruct the
County Road Department to install said speed bumps at their earliest
convenience in accordance with the above specifications.
(Ord. 01-11.24.09, passed 11-24-2009)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Policy
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Unlawful practice
   
93.04   Discrimination in sales or rentals
   
93.05   Discrimination in housing financing
   
93.06   Discrimination in brokerage services
   
93.07   Exemption
   
93.08   Administration and enforcement
   
93.09   Investigations; subpoena and evidence
   
93.10   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
93.11   Prevention of intimidation
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitations, for fair housing throughout the county.
(2001 Code, § 90.01) (Ord. passed 8-14-1990)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
93.04 through
93.06.
   DWELLING, Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families,
and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations,
labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint stock
companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. passed 8-14-1990)
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below and §
93.07, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
set forth herein shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below;
   (B)   Nothing in §
93.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner, provided that:
         (a)   The private individual owner does not own more than three
single-family houses at any one time;
         (b)   In the case of the sale of any single-family house by a private
individual owner not residing in the house at the time of the sale or who was
not the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the exemption
granted by this division (B)(1) shall apply only with respect to one sale
within any 24-month period;
         (c)   The bona fide private individual owner does not own any interest
in, nor is there owned or reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of more than three single-family houses any one time;
or
         (d)   The sale or rental of any single-family house shall be excepted
from the application of this chapter only if the house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesperson or of the facilities or services of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any broker, agent,
salesperson or person; or
            2.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
93.04, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other professional assistance
as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   He or she has, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence in providing
sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He or she is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(2001 Code, § 90.03) (Ord. passed 8-14-1990) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SALES OR RENTALS.
   As made applicable by §
93.03(A) and except as exempted by §§
93.03(B) and
93.07, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
to deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status or handicapped status;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status or handicapped status;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicapped
state, or an intention to make any preference, limitation or discrimination;
and
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, familial status or handicapped status that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale or rental when the dwelling is in fact so
available.
(2001 Code, § 90.04) (Ord. passed 8-14-1990) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING FINANCING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the amount,
interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of the loan or other
financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion or national origin
of the person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with
the loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of the loan or other
financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants
or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which the loan or
other financial assistance is to be made or given. Nothing contained in this
section shall impair the scope or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
93.03(B).
(2001 Code, § 90.05) (Ord. passed 8-14-1990) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DISCRIMINATION IN BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization
or other service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling
or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of access, membership or participation, on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicapped status.
(2001 Code, § 90.06) (Ord. passed 8-14-1990) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 EXEMPTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to the persons, unless membership in the
religion is restricted on account of race, color or national origin, nor shall
anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the
public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides
lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
(2001 Code, § 90.07) (Ord. passed 8-14-1990)
§ 93.08 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The authority for administering this chapter shall be in the
Judge/Executive.
      (2)   The Judge/Executive may delegate any of these functions, duties and
powers to employees of the county or to boards of the employees, including
functions, duties and powers with respect to investigating, conciliating,
hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or otherwise acting as to
any work, business or matter under this chapter. The Judge/Executive shall by
rule prescribe the rights of appeal from the decisions of his or her hearing
examiners to other hearing examiners or to other officers in the county to
boards of officers or to himself or herself, as shall be appropriate and in
accordance with law.
      (3)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their
programs and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Judge/Executive. The Judge/Executive shall commence educational and
conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of this chapter. He or she
shall call conferences of persons in the housing industry and other interested
parties to acquaint them with the provisions of this chapter and his or her
suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor with their advice to
work out programs of voluntary compliance and of enforcement.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by
a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereafter “person
aggrieved”) may file a complaint with the Judge/Executive. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall contain the information and be in the form as the Judge/
Executive requires. Upon receipt of a complaint, the Judge/Executive shall
furnish a copy of the same to the person or persons who allegedly committed or
about to commit the alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within 30 days
after receiving a complaint, or within 30 days after the expiration of any
period of reference under division (B)(3) below, the Judge/Executive shall
investigate the complaint and given notice in writing to the person aggrieved
whether he or she intends to resolve it. If the Judge/Executive decides to
resolve the complaints, he or she shall proceed to try to eliminate or correct
the alleged discriminatory housing practice by informal methods of conference,
conciliation and persuasion. Nothing said or done in the course of the informal
endeavors may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding
under this chapter without the written consent of the persons concerned.
      (2)   A complaint under division (B)(1) shall be filed within 180 days
after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be
in writing and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a
discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be reasonably and
fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to the complaint
against him or her and with the leave of the Judge/Executive which shall be
granted whenever it would be reasonable do so, may amend his or her answer at
any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
      (3)   If, within 30 days after a complaint is filed with the Judge/
Executive, the Judge/Executive has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance
with this chapter, the person aggrieved may, within 30 days thereafter, file a
complaint with the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development. The Judge/Executive will assist in this filing.
      (4)   If the Judge/Executive has been unable to obtain voluntary
compliance within 30 days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within 30
days hereafter commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as the rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is
about to occur, the court may enjoin the respondent from engaging in the
practice or order the affirmative action as may be appropriate.
      (5)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
      (6)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Judge/Executive shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary
compliance.
   (C)   (1)   The rights granted by §§
93.03 through
93.06 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within 180 days after the
alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred. The court shall continue the
civil case brought pursuant to this section from time to time before bringing
it to trial if the court believes that the conciliation efforts of the Judge/
Executive are likely to result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory
housing practice complained of in the complaint made to the Judge/Executive and
which practice forms the basis for the action in court. Any sale, encumbrance
or rental consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the
authority of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or
tenant without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or
civil action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
      (2)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any
permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order or other order,
any may award to the plaintiff’ actual damages and not more than $1,000
punitive damages, together with court costs and reasonable attorney fees in the
case of a prevailing plaintiff, if the plaintiff, in the opinion of the court,
is not financially able to assume the attorney’s fees.
(2001 Code, § 90.08) (Ord. passed 8-14-1990)
§ 93.09 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENA AND EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Judge/Executive shall have access
at all reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of persons as are
reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation. The Judge/
Executive first complies with the provisions of the Fourth Amendment relating
to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Judge/Executive may issue subpoenas
to compel his or her access to or the production of the materials, or the
appearance of the persons, any may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to
the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the
subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in
the United States District Court for the district in which the investigation is
taking place. The Judge/Executive may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Judge/Executive, a respondent shall be
entitled to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the same
of the Judge/Executive to the same extent and subject to the same limitations
as subpoenas issued by the Judge/Executive. Subpoenas issued at the request of
a respondent shall show on their face the name and address of the respondent
and shall state that they were issued at his or her request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Judge/Executive shall be
entitled to the same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings
in United States district courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a
subpoena issued at the request of a respondent shall be paid by him or her.
   (D)   Within five days after service of a subpoena upon any person, the
person may petition the Judge/Executive to revoke or modify the subpoena. The
Judge/Executive shall grant the petition if he or she finds that the subpoena
requires appearance or attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it
requires production of evidence which does not relate to any matter under
investigation, that it does not describe with sufficient particularity the
evidence to be produced, that compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other
good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Judge/
Executive or other person at whose request it was issued may petition for its
enforcement in the state court for the district in which the person to whom the
subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts business.
   (F)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify or to
answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents or other evidence,
if in his or her power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful order
of the Judge/Executive, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not
more than one year, or both. Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the
Judge/Executive shall make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of
fact in any report, account, record or other document submitted to the Judge/
Executive pursuant to his or her subpoena or other order, or shall willfully
neglect or fail to make or cause to be made full, true and correct entries in
the reports, accounts, records or other documents, or shall willfully mutilate,
alter or by any other means falsify any documentary evidence, shall be fined
not more than $1,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
   (G)   The County Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Judge/
Executive participates as a part or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 90.09) (Ord. passed 8-14-1990)
§ 93.10 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
persons in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
93.03 through
93.06. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(2001 Code, § 90.10) (Ord. passed 8-14-1990) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to inure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, familial status or handicapped status, and because he or she is or has
been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
the person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, familial status or handicapped status in any of
the activities, services, organization or facilities described herein; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection to so participate.
(2001 Code, § 90.11) (Ord. passed 8-14-1990)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any employee of the Judge/Executive who shall make public any
information in violation of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $1,000 or
imprisoned not more than one year.
(2001 Code, § 90.08) (Ord. passed 8-14-1990)
CHAPTER 94: CEMETERIES
Section
Preservation of Inactive and Private Family Cemeteries
   
94.01   Ownership of cemetery on tract proposed for development
   
94.02   Maintenance
   
94.03   Preservation; relocation and discovery procedures
   
94.04   County Cemetery Road
   
94.05   Land use regulations
PRESERVATION OF INACTIVE AND PRIVATE FAMILY CEMETERIES
§ 94.01 OWNERSHIP OF CEMETERY ON TRACT PROPOSED FOR DEVELOPMENT.
   In preserving a cemetery, while at the same time developing or dividing a
parcel, an applicant shall follow one of the following options:
   (A)   Transfer the existing cemetery as part of a buildable lot. Ownership
and maintenance of the cemetery would be left to the individual lot owner; and
   (B)   Make the existing cemetery a separate lot. Ownership and maintenance
of the cemetery would be assigned by written agreement with either the original
owner of the cemetery, the subdivision homeowners association, the developer of
a subdivision, or the County Historical Society.
(Ord. 02-02.28.11, passed 3-28-2011)
§ 94.02 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   These requirements shall be followed if a developer or property owner
wishes to preserve an existing cemetery, while at the same time developing or
dividing his or her property. The regulations outlined below apply only to
inactive and private family cemeteries. Any waiver of these regulations must be
requested from the Planning and Zoning Board. Transfer of responsibility of
cemetery maintenance to lot owner must be on the plat and deed restrictions.
   (B)   If a private cemetery exists on a parcel of land and the exact
location of grave sites is not able to be determined, or if a cemetery is
discovered during construction, a developer or property owner is advised to
follow the procedures and guidelines stated in §
94.03(B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3).
   (C)   Cemetery boundaries shall be established by the developer and
submitted to the County Planning and Zoning Board for approval. Request for
approval should include evidence of location such as fences, walls, grave
stones, natural features or recorded documents. If sufficient evidence for
location of cemetery boundary does not exist then the County Planning and
Zoning Board may require developer(s) to have a professional archeologist view
the site and make a determination as to the boundaries and potential number of
grave sites.
      (1)   No new structure or building addition shall be built within 30 feet
of an existing private family cemetery regardless of adjoining property lines
or land ownership. This 30-foot limitation is also required regardless of
whether the cemetery is part of a building lot or is conveyed as a separate
lot. The 30-foot limitation shall be in the form of an exclusive cemetery
easement.
      (2)   No grading, excavating, paving or land disturbance shall be allowed
within 30 feet of a cemetery.
         (a)   Developer shall repair or replace any existing cemetery fences
or walls. Stone or masonry fences shall be replaced with the same type or
suitable material. Existing cemetery fences or walls shall be repaired or
replaced at the time of development or prior to the final plat or final
development plan approval.
         (b)   Developer shall be required to construct a new fence if one does
not exist at the time of establishment of cemetery boundary. Fence material
shall fit with the character of the proposed development. The following
materials are acceptable: stone, brick, ornamental iron, pressure treated wood
(picket or plank constructed) with a quality of workmanship and material that
guarantees a life expectancy of 20 years.
         (c)   At the time of construction of new fence, dead or decaying trees
and heavy underbrush shall be removed from the cemetery. Remaining trees shall
be pruned to a height to create a clear vertical view of eight feet. Ground
cover shall also be established at this time.
         (d)   A statement by the property, owner, applicant or developer shall
be made on the development plan or division plat regarding cemetery ownership
and maintenance.
         (e)   A certificate of land use restriction, cemetery easement and a
deed restriction shall be recorded in the County Clerk’s office acknowledging
the location, size, ownership and maintenance of a cemetery. This information
shall also be recorded on the final development plan, and the final plat for a
subdivision if not yet recorded.
         (f)   Public or controlled access shall be provided by the developer
or owner to the existing cemetery with a minimum five-foot wide recorded
ingress/egress pedestrian cemetery access easement accessible from a public or
private street within the development. The recording of the cemetery access
easement shall follow the same guidelines in this division (C)(2)(f).
(Ord. 02-02.28.11, passed 3-28-2011)
§ 94.03 PRESERVATION; RELOCATION AND DISCOVERY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In order to assist property owners or developers in their cemetery
preservation or relocation work, the following procedures and guidelines shall
be followed. These procedures or guidelines are to be followed by each property
owner or developer and shall be enforced by the County Planning and Zoning
Board and the Administrative Official.
   (B)   The procedures are based upon either cemetery preservation or
relocation plans.
      (1)   Preservation of existing cemetery. If a property owner desires to
preserve an existing cemetery while developing or dividing his or her own
property, then the property owner shall state his or her intent to the County
Planning and Zoning Board in writing and follow the lot and maintenance
requirements as stated in the regulations.
      (2)   Relocation of existing cemetery. If a property owner desires to
relocate an existing cemetery with the advice from the County Planning and
Zoning Board, then the property owner shall state his or her intent to said
Commission in writing and follow the requirements for relocation per state
statutes and Kentucky Administrative Regulations. Copies of all required state
and local applications and permits during the relocation procedure shall be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Board. The County Coroner’s Office shall
be involved in the relocation of a cemetery.
      (3)   Discovery of an unknown cemetery. If a property owner or developer
unintentionally discovers a cemetery during construction, which was previously
unknown, all work in the area shall cease immediately. The property owner or
developer shall be responsible to report this disclosure to the County Planning
and Zoning Board. As a result, the following steps should be taken.
         (a)   The property owner or developer has the option of stating in
writing to the Planning and Zoning Board whether he or she will preserve the
cemetery in accordance with these and state regulations or relocate the
cemetery in accordance with state law. Either option will result in a submittal
to the Planning Commission a revised subdivision plat, development plan and/or
permit to be reviewed and approved by the Planning and Zoning Board. The
Planning and Zoning Board shall be available to advise the property owner or
developer of the benefits of cemetery preservation versus relocation.
         (b)   If a property owner or developer decides not to report the
presence of a cemetery that is previously unknown and attempts to conceal any
evidence that a cemetery ever existed and discovery of this fact is presented
to the Planning and Zoning Board or Fiscal Court, then the Planning and Zoning
Board shall notify the property owner or developer in writing to stop
construction work in the area surrounding the cemetery. At the next regularly
scheduled Planning and Zoning Board meeting, the property owner or developer
must present to discuss the matter and offer a solution. This solution shall
include the following:
            1.   The boundaries of the cemetery shall be identified by a
professional (Kentucky registered) archaeologist at the expense of the owner or
developer.
            2.   The cemetery fence (if it exists) shall be repaired, replaced
or reconditioned at the owner or developer’s expense. The cemetery’s condition
shall be returned to its natural state and maintained per §
94.02 and ownership shall be established per §
94.01(B).
            3.   Inspection of the cemetery preservation work shall be done
periodically by the Planning and Zoning Board to ensure the work is completed
in a reasonable amount of time.
(Ord. 02-02.28.11, passed 3-28-2011)
§ 94.04 COUNTY CEMETERY ROAD.
   (A)   A county acting under this chapter will create a County Cemetery Board
that may apply to the Department for Local Government for grants to restore and
maintain nonprofit cemeteries that do not receive perpetual care funds.
   (B)   This Board shall consist of five volunteer members that shall meet
three times annually with no more than three representing the same political
party. Members shall be appointed by the County Judge/Executive with approval
of the fiscal court, and shall have demonstrated an interest in cemetery
preservation, genealogy, local history or a related area.
   (C)   The appointment term of each County Board member shall be four years,
except for initial appointment terms. Initial appointment terms shall be as
follows: two members appointed to one-year term; two members appointed to two-
year terms; and one member appointed to a three-year term.
(Ord. 02-02.28.11, passed 3-28-2011)
§ 94.05 LAND USE REGULATIONS.
   The land use regulations for the county shall reference this subchapter in
Section ___.
(Ord. 02-02.28.11, passed 3-28-2011)
CHAPTER 95: ADDRESS NUMBERING
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Governing bodies
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   All properties in the county shall be assigned a numbered address, in
order to provide adequate and prompt fire, police and emergency medical
services to the residences of the county. It is necessary for all such
emergency personnel to readily identify residential, commercial and industrial
structures by the assigned street number at all times during the day and night.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a uniform system of street
naming and addressing throughout the county and to remove conditions causing
difficulty in locating properties and buildings.
(Ord. 011-3-91, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 95.02 GOVERNING BODIES.
   (A)   The process of planning, mapping and addressing the county shall be
directed by the 911 Board and the 911 Executive Director or their designee.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the term “the county” shall exclude
all property within the city limits of Stanford.
      (1)   The 911 Board may alter the name of any existing or newly
established street at any time if deemed necessary.
      (2)   New street names shall not be the same as or relatively similar to
street names already assigned within the county. Confusing or unusual street
names spellings shall not be permitted. Private streets with more than two
dwellings shall be named.
      (3)   Structures must have frontage or an entrance to the road on which
their address is assigned. Vanity addresses that do not meet the addressing
criteria are unacceptable.
      (4)   Preliminary subdivisions, plats and site development for review,
shall have the proposed street name, identified for each street. Street address
numbers shall be assigned by the 911 Board or its designee.
      (5)   All streets must have signs displaying the name of said street at
each intersection.
      (6)   All signs shall conform to uniform traffic control guidelines.
      (7)   A uniform system of numbering properties and building is hereby
adopted. All property or parcels of land within the limits of the county shall
be identified by reference to the uniform numbering system. Buildings which
house multi-family dwelling units, multiple offices or businesses, shall have
one address for each principal entrance and a unit, apartment or suite number
to identify each separate unit related to the principal entrance address (ex.,
410 Maple Ave. Apt b). Street numbers shall be uniformly assigned as indicated
by the county’s uniform address system. The U.S. postal service address
standards will be followed. The buildings will be numbered following guidelines
for number sequence assignment and directional considerations that are used in
the uniform addressing system.
      (8)   The use of reflective numbers for addressing purposes is required.
The numbers shall be a minimum of three inches in height and located two feet
off the main road, close to the driveway of the house. The numbers can be
located on the house or structure as long as they are visible and legible from
the street. The owner/occupant must post their assigned address number in a
manner as to be legible and distinguishable from the road on which the property
is located.
      (9)   No utility company operating in the county shall furnish its
utility services to any new structure or mobile home, including a mobile home
that is moved from one location to another, until it has been issued a valid
address. A new structure is defined as a commercial building, house or
apartment newly constructed, being occupied by the applicant for the first time
and requiring installation to obtain utility service. The subscriber will be
required to provide proof that an address notification form has been obtained
or that an address has been issued.
      (10)   Addresses can be obtained by visiting the 911 center or by calling
them on the telephone.
      (11)   If the structure is not visible from the street or road on which
it is located, and no mailbox is beside the driveway leading to the structure,
a sign or number post shall be erected which will allow the numbers to be
displayed either vertically or horizontally.
(Ord. 011-3-91, passed 6-23-2009)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The 911 Director, along with the County Sheriff’s Department, shall be
responsible for the enforcement of this chapter, including the issuance of
violations and any other appropriate action. In the event that the owner/
occupant of any house or building refuses to comply with this chapter by
failing to affix the number assigned within 60 days after notification he or
she will be fined not less that $10 or more than $25 per offense. Each day
during which the violation exists may be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who unlawfully defaces, removes, moves or causes to be
moved any road or street sign in such a way that it is not visible shall be
subject to a fine of $150 for each offense.
(Ord. 011-3-91, passed 6-23-2009)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
      
111.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
      
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required; fees
   
110.03   Collection of fees; administration
   
110.04   Duty of employers
   
110.05   Duty of owners
   
110.06   Duty of employees
   
110.07   Compensation; fees
   
110.08   Records required
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. An official administrator of the occupational tax, to be
appointed by the Fiscal Court.
   COUNTY. Lincoln County, Kentucky.
   GROSS RECEIPTS or COMPENSATION. When applied to a person employed by others,
the gross amount of all salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses or other money
payments of any kind, or other considerations having a monetary value, which a
person receives or becomes entitled to, or is given credit for by an employer,
without deduction for withholding taxes, Social Security benefits, any form of
insurance or retirement benefits or other deductions made by all employers in
calculating “take home pay.” Any traveling expenses actually incurred and paid
by the employer and gratuities such as “tips” paid by someone other than the
employer shall be exempt from the operation of this chapter.
   LICENSE FEE. A tax imposed for the privilege of exercising the right to
engage in trade, occupation or profession for compensation paid by others or
the right to engage in trade, occupation or profession for oneself, for profit
or gain, within the county.
   NET PROFIT. Gross receipts less ordinary business deductions, recognized as
such, and allowed by the laws of the state, in computing tax liability, but
without deductions for taxes based on income.
   PERSON. All natural partnerships, firms, associations, governmental bodies
and agencies, and corporations and whenever used in any interpretation.
   TRADE, OCCUPATION or PROFESSION. Any and all activities and the rendering of
any and all services of all kinds or other remuneration, or net profit or gain
of any kind when applied to persons so engaged for themselves whether the
person be a resident of the county or not.
(2001 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. passed 6-8-1999)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   All persons engaged in any trade, occupation or profession within the
county, when employed by another, shall pay a license fee measured by and equal
to 1% of gross receipts paid for the service.
   (B)   (1)   All persons engaged in any trade, occupation or profession
within the county, for themselves, for profit or gain, shall pay a license fee
measured by and equal to 1% of the net profit realized from the activity.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any trade,
occupation or profession within the county, without withholding, reporting and
paying the license fees herein provided and required. Portions of the order
prescribing a penalty in the form of fine or imprisonment shall mean and
include the individual members of a firm, partnership or association and the
officers of any governmental body or agency or any corporation.
(2001 Code, § 110.02) (Ord. passed 6-8-1999) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 COLLECTION OF FEES; ADMINISTRATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Administrator to collect all license fees and
deposit the same in the county’s General Fund, to be used to defray the general
expenses of the county government. The Administrator shall have the power and
it shall be his or her duty to enforce the rules and regulations adopted by the
Fiscal Court, as may be necessary to administer this chapter, and to provide
printed forms, as may be required for reporting, paying and receipting for all
license fees and for all other requirements in the proper and efficient
administration of this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 110.03) (Ord. passed 6-8-1999)
§ 110.04 DUTY OF EMPLOYERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person engaged in any trade, occupation
or profession, within the county, who employs or engages the services of others
in connection therewith, to withhold from the compensation of the employee, the
license fees herein provided, at the time the compensation is paid or credited.
The person shall report and pay the same to the Administrator on or before
April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31 of each year, for the license fees
accrued during the preceding three months, except as provided in divisions (B)
and (C) below. Failure on the part of the employer to withhold, report and pay
the license fees shall not relieve the employee from the liability therefor.
   (B)   A person engaged in agriculture business (raising crops and livestock)
who employs less than five employees on a regular time basis, 450 hours during
a quarter, or a federal employee or postal worker, may file a return and pay
the withholding tax at the end of the taxable year.
   (C)   Any person may elect to estimate and pay in advance, the withholding
tax that may become due from compensation to be paid employees for a taxable
year. This procedure shall exempt the person from filing quarterly returns. The
penalty for underpayment shall be as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   All license fees not paid when due shall draw interest at the rate of
6% per annum from due date until paid, and upon failure to pay any license fee
when due, a penalty of 10% is hereby imposed which penalty shall draw interest
from due date.
(2001 Code, § 110.04) (Ord. passed 6-8-1999)
§ 110.05 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person engaged in any trade, occupation
or profession for themselves, for gain or profit, within the county, to file
with the Administrator a return showing the net profit or gain from the
activity realized during the preceding year as determined by the licensee’s
method of accounting or keeping books, and shall pay the license herein
provided, calculated on the net profit for the preceding fiscal year. Within
105 days after the end of the licensee’s fiscal year, the persons shall file a
report with the Administrator showing the net profit or gain for the preceding
license period.
   (B)   The license period shall extend from July 1 until the end of the
licensee’s fiscal year and the license fee for the period shall be calculated
on a prorated basis as of the end of the licensee’s fiscal year. The licensee
shall be permitted to adopt any fiscal year period which corresponds with his
or her system of accounting or bookkeeping or the period adopted for income tax
purposes.
(2001 Code, § 110.05) (Ord. passed 6-8-1999)
§ 110.06 DUTY OF EMPLOYEES.
   In the event an employer fails to withhold, report or pay license fees for
which any employee liable, then it shall be the duty of the employee to report
and pay the same when due and to file reports showing total gross receipts for
the period from July 1 to December 31. The reports shall be made upon forms
furnished by the Administrator and shall be filed not later than April 30 of
each year. In the event the licensee has not paid the full amount of license
fees due for any period, the deficit, together with interest and penalties,
shall be paid when the reports above provided for are filed or the amount
legally determined by the Administrator. In the event of over-payment, the
county shall make prompt refund.
(2001 Code, § 110.06) (Ord. passed 6-8-1999)
§ 110.07 COMPENSATION; FEES.
   (A)   Whenever an employee receives compensation for services or activity
performed within and without the county, the license fee required under this
chapter shall be computed and paid upon the basis of the proportion of
compensation earned for services performed within the county.
   (B)   Whenever the net profit or gain from any trade, occupation or
profession is derived from activity or business done both within and without
the county, the license fee required under this chapter shall be computed and
paid upon the proportion of net profit or gain derived from the activity within
the county. In all cases of license fees computed upon the basis of
apportionment of compensation or net profit or gain, as herein provided, the
apportionment may be shown by sworn statements of the licensee or employer, but
shall not be binding upon the county. The apportionment shall be subject to
verification and determination by the Administrator or his or her agents or
employees through examination and audit of the books and records of the
licensee or employer, or both, as required by the Administrator.
(2001 Code, § 110.07) (Ord. passed 6-8-1999)
§ 110.08 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The reports required by this chapter shall be in form prescribed by
the Administrator and shall contain all essential information, date and
figures, upon which the license fees required by this chapter are computed.
Every person required to pay any license fee provided by this chapter shall be
required to make all books, records and accounts upon which information
required by this chapter is based, available to the Administrator, his or her
agents or employees, for the purpose of examination, audit or verification. If
any license or employer subject to the provisions of this chapter shall
voluntarily submit copies of income tax returns for examination, then case no
further examination or audit will be required until and unless there is re-
examination or audit made by the taxing authority to whom the return was made.
The Administrator may dispense with examination of the books, records, accounts
or tax returns of the licensee in any case where the Administrator is furnished
with a certificate of an attorney at law, a licensed public accountant or the
sworn statement of any other accountant or bookkeeper of the licensee stating
that the amount of tax reported conforms to the income tax return filed by the
licensee for the applicable period.
   (B)   Nothing shall prevent or preclude the Administrator from conducting an
examination and audit of the books, records and accounts, as herein provided at
any time he or she may have reasonable grounds to believe that the licensee has
not correctly reported and paid the license fees due under the provisions of
the chapter.
   (C)   All information obtained by the Administrator or any of his or her
agents or employees, or any other official or employee of the county, from any
reports, examination or audit of books, accounts, income tax returns or any
other source, in the administration of this chapter, shall be treated and
considered as confidential and privileged except for official purposes, unless
otherwise treated by judicial decree or specific provision of law, and shall
not be open to inspection by the public.
   (D)   It is further provided that the Administrator or any county official
or employee shall have the right to disclose to the commonwealth’s Commissioner
of Revenue, or his or her duly authorized agent or employee, any of the
information protected herein, provided reciprocal right to information
concerning any person liable for license fees under the provisions of this
chapter is made available to the county by the state authorities. The county
may publish statistics based upon information obtained in the administration of
this chapter so long as the published statistics do not reveal the identity of
any licensee.
(2001 Code, § 110.08) (Ord. passed 6-8-1999)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, by
failing to pay any license fee when due, failing to withhold and pay any
license fee when due or failing to file any report or submit to any examination
required by this chapter, or in any other manner fails or refuses to comply
with any of the terms or provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$500, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days or both. The penalties shall be
in addition to other penalties imposed by this chapter. Each failure or refusal
to comply with any of or the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense, and each day that the failure or refusal continues without
compliance shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any official, agent or employee of the county who divulges any
information obtained under the provision of this chapter, except for the
purposes of administrating this chapter, as herein provided, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $500 or punished by confinement for not more than 30 days or both.
(2001 Code, § 110.99) (Ord. passed 6-8-1999)
CHAPTER 111: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License application required
   
111.03   Occupational license fee payment required
   
111.04   Apportionment
   
111.05   Employers to withhold
   
111.06   Returns required
   
111.07   Extensions
   
111.08   Refunds
   
111.09   Federal audit provisions
   
111.10   Administrative provisions
   
111.11   Information to remain confidential
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings incomes
or receipts of such unit, group or association, inures to the benefit of any
private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions or any other form of remuneration
paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an employee, which are
required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and adjusted as
follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under I.R.C. §§
401(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h) or 457; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or other
payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to,
I.R.C. §§ 125 and 132.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   COUNTY. The county of Lincoln County, Kentucky.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term employer. The person having control of the payment of such wages; and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means such
person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. Fiscal year as defined in I.R.C. § 7701(a)(24).
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31 of
the year in which the tax is due, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent
to that date, other than amendments that extend provisions in effect on
December 31, of the year in which the tax is due, that would otherwise
terminate.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in I.R.C. § 61, minus all the deductions
from gross income allowed by I.R.C. Chapter 1, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carry back or
carry forward allowed under I.R.C. § 172;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or nonresident of the
county. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form
statement, certification, declaration or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the county.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease or rental of goods, services or
property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any county with the authority to levy net profits or
occupational.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue only within the county, means net profit as defined herein.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sale
revenue both within and without the county, means net profit as defined herein,
and as apportioned under §
111.04.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
   RENTAL UNIT. Any room or rooms connected or other structure or portion
thereof constituting a separate, independent establishment of premises for
rent, lease or sublease to the occupant thereof.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 111.02 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person or business entity engaged in any trade, occupation or
profession, or other activity for profit or anyone required to file a return
under this chapter in the county shall be required to complete and execute the
questionnaire prescribed by the occupational fee office. Each person shall be
required to complete a separate questionnaire for each separate business before
the commencement of business or in the event of a status change, other than
change of address. Licensees are required to notify the occupational fee office
of changes of address, or the cessation of business activity, and of other
changes which render inaccurate the information supplied in the completed
questionnaire.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 111.03 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, every person or business
entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business entity
that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or the
State Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the county an
occupational license fee for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the county. The occupational license that shall be measured by 1% of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the county for work
done or services performed or rendered in the county by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee; and
      (2)   The net profit from business conducted in the county by a resident
or nonresident business entity.
         (a)   If the amount to be remitted is less than $25, the entity shall
instead remit the sum of $25 for the calendar year.
         (b)   That any entity that submits a net profit return which reflects
zero net profit, or a loss shall still be required to submit the minimum sum as
set forth herein.
   (B)   All partnerships, S corporations and all other entities where income
is “passed through” to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license fee imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
“passed through” these entities to the owners.
   (C)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate or withdraws from
the county during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license fee for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the county.
   (D)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license fee shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
   (E)   The occupational license fee imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking and title business organized and doing business in this state,
any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the State National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county and local primary, regular or
special elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the State Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.20. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the county;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their net profits derived from the manufacturing or trafficking alcoholic
beverages;
      (6)   Commonwealth of Kentucky, except as provided in KRS 91A.080;
      (7)   Any profits, earnings, distributions of an investment fund which
would qualify under KRS 154.20-250 to 154.20-284 to the extent any profits,
earnings or distributions would not be taxable to an individual investor; and
      (8)   Compensation received for the renting or leasing of only one
residential rental unit shall be exempt from the occupational license fee.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005; Ord. 9.22.20.2, passed 9-22-2020)
§ 111.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, net profit shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) below, and the denominator of which
is two;
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sale factor as set forth in
division (C) below; and
      (3)   The purpose of this section business entities shall file an
appropriate form provided by the occupational license fee administration.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the county during the tax period by the business
entity for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation
paid or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the county based on the time the
individual’s service is performed within the county.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the county during the tax period, and
the denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease or rental of tangible personal property is in the
county if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
county regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory or other place of storage in the county and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenue from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the county based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the county and
the denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-
producing activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the county, the
business entity may petition the county or the county may require, in respect
to all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the county; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the county, the
license fee shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the county.
      (1)   The license fee shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which
the compensation for work performed or services rendered within the county
bears to the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the
county to verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentage under this
subsection, the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records to establish
apportionment.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (E), businesses shall file an
appropriate form provided by the occupational license fee office.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 111.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold upon the payment of the compensation any fee imposed
against the compensation by the county. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the
county in accordance with §
111.03.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold fee under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the county, and pay to the county, the fee
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the county.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the county any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the county for any sum or sums withheld or required to
be withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The county shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the county sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the county, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the county. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
county.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold fees under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the county a reconciliation of the occupational
license fee withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the county, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license fee deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the county during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the fee required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this chapter shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any fee required to be withheld from compensation paid to one or
more employees of any business entity, and neither the corporate dissolution or
withdrawal of the business entity from the county, nor the cessation of holding
any corporate office, shall discharge that liability of any person; provided
that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each or every person
holding the corporate office at the time the fee becomes or became obligated.
No person shall be personally and individually liable under this division (H)
who had no authority to collect, truthfully account for, or pay over any fee
imposed by this chapter at the time that the fees imposed by this chapter
become or became due.
   (I)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) above, every employee receiving
compensation in the county subject to the fee imposed under §
111.03 shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all cases where the
employer does not withhold the fee levied under this chapter from the employee,
such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with the county each
quarter in the same manner as if he, she or they were the employer. If an
employer fails to or is not required to withhold, report or pay the license fee
it shall become the duty of the employee to file with the county. The only
employer that is not required to withhold, report and pay the occupational
license fee is the federal government, including the United States Postal
Service. The payment required to be made by an employee, can be made quarterly,
for the periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each
year, or at any time the employee wishes to make an estimated payment for the
year in which wages are earned. All license fees must be received by February
28 for the preceding calendar year, together with a copy of the employee’s W-
2 form.
   (J)   Employers not required to withhold, report or pay the license fee must
annually during the month of January of each year, make a return to the
Occupational Fee Administrator, in which is set forth the name and social
security number of each employee of the employer during the preceding calendar
year, giving the amount of salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation
earned during such preceding year by each such employee. This list shall
include all current full time employees, part time employees, temporary
employees and terminated employees whether it be voluntary or involuntary.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 111.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
county.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license fee return with the county. Whenever, in the opinion of
the county, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any
business entity in order to audit the return, the county may compel the
business entity to produce for inspection a copy of any statements and
schedules in support thereof that have not been previously filed. The county
may also require copies of reports of adjustments made by the federal
government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license fee governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns and comply with rules as the county from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the county deems it necessary, the county may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the county deems sufficient
to determine the fee liability of the business entity.
   (D)   The county may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the
correctness of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the
taxable income of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of
the business entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid fee payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the county at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license fee return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of persons who make Federal Form 1099
“non-employee compensation” payments to natural persons other than employees
for services performed within the county, to maintain records of such payments
and to report such payments to the county. Said payments must be reported on by
remitting Federal Form 1099 by February 28 of the year following the close of
the calendar year in which the non employee compensation was paid. If a
business entity or person is not required to remit Federal Form 1099 to the
IRS, including, but not limited to, payments less than $600, he, she or they
are still liable to remit the equivalent information to the county. The
information required to be reported by said licensee shall include:
      (1)   Payer’s name, address, Social Security and/or federal
identification number;
      (2)   Recipient’s name and address;
      (3)   Recipient’s Social Security and/or federal identification number;
      (4)   Amount of non employee compensation paid in the calendar year; and
      (5)   Amount of non employee compensation earned in the county for the
calendar year.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 111.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The county may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the county and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license fee, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its fee.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business entity shall
pay, as part of the fee, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on
the fee shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time
the fee was due until the return is actually filed and the fee paid to the
county. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
   (C)   Every business entity, other than a sole proprietorship, subject to a
net profits or occupational license fee levied by the county, shall make
quarterly estimated fee payments on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth,
sixth, ninth and twelfth month of each taxable year if the fee liability for
the taxable year exceeds $5,000.
   (D)   The quarterly estimated fee payments required under division (C) above
shall be based on the lesser of:
      (1)   Twenty-two and one-half percent of the current taxable year fee
liability; and
      (2)   Twenty-five percent of the average fee liability for the three
preceding full year taxable years’ fee liabilities if the fee liability for any
of the three preceding full taxable years exceeded $20,000.
   (E)   (1)   Any business entity that fails to submit the minimum quarterly
payment required under division (D) above by the due date for the quarterly
payment shall pay an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the
amount of the quarterly payment required under division (D) above from the
earlier of:
         (a)   The due date for the quarterly payment until the time when the
aggregate quarterly payments submitted for the taxable year equal the minimum
aggregate payments due under division (D) above; or
         (b)   The due date of the annual return.
      (2)   A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any business
entity’s first full or partial taxable year of doing business in the county or
any first taxable year in which a business entity’s fee liability exceeds
$5,000.
   (G)   At the election of the business entity, any installment of the
estimated fee may be paid prior to the date prescribed for its payment.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 111.08 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of fee under §
111.07, a refund or credit shall be make to the employer only to the extent
that the amount of the overpayment was not deducted and withheld under §
111.07 by the employer.
   (B)   Unless written application for refund or credit is received by the
county from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was
made, no refund or credit shall be allowed.
   (C)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the county, based on time spent outside the county, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this county, the occupational license fee on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the county, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the county may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the county and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the county prior to approval of
the refund.
   (D)   In the case where the fee computed under this chapter is less than the
amount which has been declared and paid as estimated tax for the same taxable
year, a refund shall be made upon the filing of a return.
   (E)   (1)   Overpayment resulting from the payment of estimated fees in
excess of the amount determined to be due upon the filing of a return for the
same taxable year may be credited against the amount of estimated fee
determined to be due on any declaration filed for the next succeeding taxable
year or for any deficiency or non payment of tax for any previous taxable year.
      (2)   No refund shall be made of any estimated fee paid unless a complete
return is filed as required by this chapter.
   (F)   At the election of the business entity, any installment of the
estimated fee may be paid prior to the date prescribed for its payment.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 111.09 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the county may
examine and audit the return. If the amount of fee computed by the county is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional fee
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the county within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
      (1)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional fee may be assessed at any time.
      (2)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional fee may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
      (3)   In the case of an assessment of additional fee relating directly to
adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional fee may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A)(3), or six months from the date the county receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (4)   The times provided in this division (A)(4) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the county. For the purposes of this
division (A)(4), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for
filing the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension
granted for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last
day prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The county may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional fee within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 111.10 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the fee levied by this chapter.
   (B)   Any fee collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be
refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the county, whichever is
the later, except that:
      (1)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
111.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
county the limitation contained in this division (B shall be extended
accordingly.
      (2)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to adjustments
resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a claim for
refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B) or six
months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (3)   For the purposes of this division (B) and division (C) below, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of fees collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the county.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 111.11 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of the county shall intentionally and
without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or her
of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns or reports required to be filed with the county or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business.
      (1)   This prohibition does not extend to information required in
prosecutions for making false reports or returns for taxation, or any other
infraction of the tax laws, or in any way made a matter of public record, nor
does it preclude furnishing any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized
agent with information respecting his or her own return.
      (2)   Further, this prohibition does not preclude any employee of the
county from testifying in any court, or from introducing as evidence returns or
reports filed with the county, in an action for violation of the county fee
laws or in any action challenging the county laws.
   (B)   The county reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of
Revenue of the commonwealth or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the county if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the commonwealth grants to the county the
reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and records of the State
Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the information
so furnished; provided, further, that the county may publish statistics based
on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data respecting net
profits or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the county is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity,
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this chapter. Said agreements shall require all other taxing
entities to keep all information exchanged confidential.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to fees on net profits may be subject
to a penalty equal to 5% of the fee due for each calendar month or fraction
thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the county; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the fee computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (A) shall not
exceed 25% of the total fee due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the fee on or before
the date prescribed under §
111.05 may be subject to a penalty in an amount equal to 5% of the fee due for
each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied pursuant to
this division (B) shall not exceed 25% of the total fee due; however, the
penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the fee, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the fee shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the fee was due until the fee is paid to the county. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every fee imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the fee is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the county.
   (E)   The county may enforce the collection of the occupational fee due
under division (C) above and any fees, penalties and interest as provided in
divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) above by civil action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the county shall be entitled to
recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in
enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any person,
business entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return, willfully
makes a false return, or who willfully fails to pay fees owing or collected,
with the intent to evade payment of the fee or amount collected, or any part
thereof, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim or other
document, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration or form prescribed the county and required to be filed with
the county by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the county or
by written request for information to the business entity by the county.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.11 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 2-02-08-05, passed 2-8-2005)
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose and findings
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Classification
   
112.04   General restrictions, requirements and conditions for sexually
oriented businesses
   
112.05   Exhibition of sexually explicit films, videos or live entertainment in
viewing rooms
   
112.06   Inspection
   
112.07   Live performances
   
112.08   Record-keeping requirements
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the county, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
relating to sexually oriented businesses. The provisions of this chapter have
neither the purpose nor the effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on
the content of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor the effect of this chapter
to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected
by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor the effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution
of obscene material.
   (B)   Findings. Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects
of adult uses on the community presented in reports made available to the
Fiscal Court, and on findings incorporated in the case of Renton vs. Play Time
Theaters, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young vs. American Mini Theaters, 426 U.S.
50 (1976), and Barnes vs. Glen Theater. Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991), and on
studies in other communities, including, but not limited to, Phoenix, Arizona,
Minnesota; Houston, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana; Amanita, Texas; Garden Grove,
California; Los Angeles, California; Whittier, California; Austin, Texas;
Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont,
Texas; as well as on findings from the report of Attorney General’s Working
Group on the regulation of sexually oriented businesses (June 6, 1989, State of
Minnesota), the Fiscal Court finds the following.
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of
such establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to ensure that
the owners of those establishments for the activities that occur on their
premises.
      (2)   Certain employees of sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter as adult theaters and cabarets engage in higher incidents of certain
types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments.
      (3)   Sexual acts occur at sexually oriented businesses, especially those
which provide private or semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films,
videos or live sex shows.
      (4)   Offering and providing space for such activities encourages
occurrences thereof and thereby unhealthy conditions.
      (5)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses.
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses.
      (7)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been an increasing,
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States; and, through December, 2001,
there have been 1,284,059 reported cases of AIDS in the United States.
      (8)   As of December 31, 2003, there have been 4,071 reported cases of
AIDS in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      (9)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
like syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
      (10)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the
failure of the owners and operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities.
      (11)   Numerous studies and reports have been determined that semen is
found in the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view adult
oriented films.
      (12)   The findings noted in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(12) above raise
substantial governmental concerns.
      (13)   Sexually oriented businesses, especially premises with adult
booths, have operational characteristics which engender substantial government
concerns.
      (14)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advance a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters.
      (15)   The general welfare, health and safety of the citizens of the
county will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT AMUSEMENT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin operated, slug operated or for any form of consideration,
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or laser disk players, or other image producing
devices are regularly maintained to display images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. 
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be characterized as ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE, so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishments which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude;
      (2)   Live performances characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions, characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way
advertising the availability of such adult-type photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of less than ten
hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown and characterized by the
dominant depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT STAGE SHOW THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or semi-nude, or live performances characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   COUNTY. The County of Lincoln, Kentucky.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not
said person is paid a salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of
said business. EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises
for repair or maintenance of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for
the delivery of goods to the premises.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides sexually oriented entertainment in a
sexually oriented business, whether or not an employee of the business and
whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for such entertainment.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any sexually oriented business, whether existing or the
opening of such business; the conversion of an existing business, whether or
not a sexually oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; and the
addition to any sexually oriented business.
   MANAGER. Any person who manages, directs, administers or is in charge of the
affairs and/or the conduct of a sexually oriented business.
   NUDE, NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. A consistent or substantial course of
conduct such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business
of the sexually oriented business.
   SEMI-NUDE or in a SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress, blouse,
skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing apparel provided the areola is
not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Depiction of human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation, active human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy, or
holding or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or
breasts.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult amusement arcade, adult book store,
adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult
motion picture theater, adult stage theater, escort agency or sexual encounter
center.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005)
§ 112.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult amusement arcades;
   (B)   Adult book stores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult stage theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies; and
   (H)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005)
§ 112.04 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS FOR SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   All sexual oriented businesses classified under §
112.03 shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by laws, which may be more restrictive,
no owner or operator of an establishment shall knowingly permit a person under
18 years of age to be employed by or to enter the establishment.
   (B)   An establishment must have an employee on duty at all times the
business is open and must be positioned at a station in the premises located in
such a manner that the entrance can be monitored at all times. Any person who
reasonably appears to be under the age of 18 discovered in the establishment
shall be immediately escorted from the premises.
   (C)   No establishment, except for an adult motel, shall remain open at any
time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005)
§ 112.05 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS, VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN
VIEWING ROOMS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film,
videocassette, live entertainment or other video reproduction which depicts
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with
the following requirements.
      (1)   Any wall or partition which is situated so as to create a viewing
area in which any amusement device or viewing screen is located shall be
constructed of not less than one hour fire-restriction material and shall
contain no hole or other perforation.
      (2)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there shall be an unobstructed view from a manager’s or cashier’s station
of every area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose, excluding restrooms. The view required in this section must be by
direct line of sight from the manager or cashier’s station.
      (3)   No viewing room or booth shall be obstructed by any doors,
curtains, partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials. No
patron shall be permitted access to any area of the premises which has been
designated as an area to which patrons are not permitted.
      (4)   No viewing room or booth shall be occupied by more than one person
anytime. No owner, operator or employee shall knowingly permit any viewing room
or booth to be occupied by more than one person anytime.
      (5)   No restroom shall contain any video reproduction devices or
equipment.
      (6)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than ten footcandles as measured at floor
level.
      (7)   It shall be the duty of the owner, operator or employee to ensure
that the illumination described above is maintained at all times any patron or
customer is present in the premises.
      (8)   No owner, operator or employee shall allow openings of any kind to
exist between viewing rooms or booths.
      (9)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind to
exist between viewing rooms or booths.
      (10)   The owner and/or employees shall, during each business day, cause
the walls between the viewing booths to be regularly inspected to determine if
any openings or holes exist.
      (11)   All floor coverings in viewing rooms or booths shall be nonporous,
easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      (12)   There must be at least one employee on duty and situated at the
manager’s station at all times any patron is present inside the premises.
   (B)   All sexually oriented businesses in operation in the county on the
effective date of this chapter shall comply with the configuration requirements
of divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above within 120 days after the effective date
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 INSPECTION.
   All live performances in any sexually oriented businesses shall permit
representatives of the county, including representatives of the Sheriffs
Department, Fire Department or other county departments or agencies, to inspect
the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the law.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 LIVE PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   All live performances in any sexually oriented business shall be on a
designated performance area consisting of a stage or platform at least 18
inches above the immediate floor level and removed at least six feet from any
area in which patrons are permitted.
   (B)   No person shall appear nude or in a state of nudity while engaged in
any live performance on the premises of any sexually oriented business.
   (C)   No person shall appear semi-nude or in a semi-nude condition while
engaged in any live performance on the premises of any sexually oriented
business except on the state or platform described in division (A) above.
   (D)   No entertainer or employee shall be permitted to have any physical
contact with any patron during any performance.
   (E)   No entertainer or employee shall be visible from any public place
outside the premises during any performance.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 RECORD-KEEPING REQUIREMENTS.
   Each sexually oriented business shall maintain and retain for a period of
two years beyond the last date of employment, the date of birth, last known
address, date of determination and Social Security number of all persons
employed by the sexually oriented business.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $500, or
be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 12 months, or both.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2005)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   AM, CP, JWH AND HU CANNABINOIDS
CHAPTER 130: AM, CP, JWH AND HU CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
130.01   Purpose
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Prohibition of possession or sale of AM, CP, JWH or HU cannabinoids
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to stop the possession or sale of AM
cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids and HU cannabinoids. These
substances are harmful if consumed and present a significant public health
danger that can result in hospitalization or death.
(Ord. 1-2-28-12, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AM CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids created by Alexandras
Makriyannis or his research group including, but not limited to, AM-087; AM-
251; AM-281; AM-356; AM-374; AM-381; AM-404; AM-411; AM-630; AM-661; AM-678;
AM-679; AM-694; AM-855; AM-881; AM-883; AM-905; AM-906; AM-919; AM-926; AM-938;
AM-1116; AM-1172; AM-1220; AM-1221; AM-1235; AM-1241; AM-1248; AM-2201; AM-
2212; AM-2.213; AM-2232.; AM-2233; AM-2102; AM-4030. The term shall not include
synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration, and are dispensed in accordance with state
and federal law.
   CP CANNABINOIDS. CP-47,497; (C6)-CP-47,497; (C7)-CP-47,497; (C8)-CP-47,497;
(C9) -CP-47,497; CP-50,556-1; CP-55,244; CP-55,940; CP-945,598. The term shall
not include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by
the United States Food and Drug Administration, and are dispensed in accordance
with state and federal law.
   HU CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids synthesized at the Hebrew
University, including but not limited to, HU-210; HU-211; HU-243; HU-308; HU-
320; HU-331; HU-336; HU-345. The term shall not include synthetic cannabinoids
that require a prescription, are approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration, and are dispensed in accordance with state and federal law.
   JWH CANNABINOIDS. Any synthetic cannabinoids created by John W. Huffman or
his research group, including, but not limited to, JWH-007; JWH-015; JWH-018;
JWH-019; JWH-030; JWH-047; JWH-048; JWH-051; JWH-057; JWH-073; JWH-081; JWH-
098; JWH-116; JWH-120; JWH-122; JWH-133; JWH-139; JWH-147; JWH-148; JWH-149;
JWH-161; JWH-164; JWH-166; JWH-167; JWH-171; JWH-175; JWH-176; JWH-181; JWH-
182; JWH-184; JWH-185; JWH-192; JWH-193; JWH-194; JWH-195; JWH-196; JWH-197;
JWH-198; JWH-199; JWH-200; JWH-203; JWH-205; JWH-210; JWH-213; JWH-229; JWH-
234; JWH-249; JWH-250; JWH-251; JWH-253; JWH-258; JWH-300; JWH-302; JWH-307;
JWH-336; JWH-350; JWH-359; JWH-387; JWH-398; JWH-424. The term shall not
include synthetic cannabinoids that require a prescription, are approved by the
United States Food and Drug Administration, and are dispensed in accordance
with state and federal law.
   PERSON. Individual, corporation, government or governmental subdivision or
agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, or any other
legal entity.
   POSSESSION. To have actual physical possession or otherwise to exercise
actual dominion or control over a tangible object.
   TRAFFIC. To manufacture, distribute, dispense, sell, transfer or possess
with intent to manufacture, distribute, dispense or sell a controlled
substance.
   TRANSFER. To dispose of a controlled substance to another person without
consideration and not in furtherance of commercial distribution.
(Ord. 1-2-28-12, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 130.03 PROHIBITION OF POSSESSION OR SALE OF AM, CP, JWH OR HU CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   Trafficking in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or
HU cannabinoids. A person is guilty of trafficking in AM cannabinoids, CP
cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU cannabinoids when he or she knowingly and
unlawfully traffics in AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU
cannabinoids.
   (B)   Possession of AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU
cannabinoids. A person is guilty of possession of AM cannabinoids, CP
cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU cannabinoids when he or she knowingly and
unlawfully possesses AM cannabinoids, CP cannabinoids, JWH cannabinoids or HU
cannabinoids.
(Ord. 1-2-28-12, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
130.03(A) or (B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not more than $500, or imprisonment for not more than
12 months, or both, for each offense. If current or future state law(s) (KRS
and the like) prohibits any substance(s) contained in this chapter, the state
law(s) (KRS and the like) shall be applied instead of this chapter for both
prosecution and penalty.
(Ord. 1-2-28-12, passed 2-28-2012)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
150.01   Roads in compliance; subdivisions
   
150.02   Agricultural operations; nuisance
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ROADS IN COMPLIANCE; SUBDIVISIONS.
   Any developer or builder of three or more housing units on a given road
shall provide to those purchasing from him or her, or through him or her, a
copy of this section, and obtain a signed receipt from the purchaser that a
copy has been provided them, and maintain said receipts.
(Ord. passed 5-13-2003) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS; NUISANCE.
   (A)   No agricultural operation or any of its appurtenances shall be or
become a nuisance or trespass, private or public, or be in violation of any
zoning ordinance, or be subject to any ordinance that would restrict the right
of the operator of the agricultural operation to utilize normal and acceptable
practices, by any changed conditions in or about the locality thereof after the
same has been in operation for more than one year, when the operation was not a
nuisance at the time the operation began, the only exception to this section
being whenever a nuisance, trespass or zoning violation results from the
negligent operation of an agricultural operation or its appurtenances.
   (B)   The term AGRICULTURAL OPERATION includes any facility for the
production of crops, livestock, equine, poultry, livestock products,
horticultural products, timber and any generally accepted, reasonable and
prudent method for the operation of a farm to obtain a monetary profit that
complies with applicable laws and administrative regulations, and is performed
in a reasonable and prudent manner customary among farm operators. Agricultural
practices protected by this section shall include, but not be limited to,
fertilizer application, the application of pesticides or herbicides that have
been approved by a public authority, planting, cultivating, mowing, harvesting,
land clearing and constructing farm buildings, roads, lakes and ponds
associated with a farming operation. An agricultural operation shall not lose
its status by reason of a change of ownership, a cessation of operation for any
period of time, nor shall it lose its status by reason of changes of crops or
methods of production.
   (C)   Any builder or developer of homes for sale to the public, which homes
are adjacent to agricultural operations, provide purchasers and potential
purchasers a copy of this section, copies of which shall be maintained at the
County Judge/Executive’s Office, County Courthouse, Stanford, Kentucky.
(Ord. 1-1.8.02, passed 1-8-2002) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any misrepresentation of the county’s regulations regarding roads, or
the developers’ responsibility regarding bringing a road into compliance with
the county’s minimum standards upon which a purchaser relies to their material
detriment shall be considered a violation of §
150.01, punishable through the District Court in the maximum amount of $500.
   (C)   Any person or persons who violates any division of §
150.02 shall be subject to a fine of $500.
(Ord. 1-1.8.02, passed 1-8-2002; Ord. passed 5-13-2003)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of Building Code
   
151.02   Building inspection procedure
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The State Building Code, including the 2007 edition of the State
Residential Code Book, as promulgated in 815 KAR7:125 by the Board of Housing,
Buildings and Construction, is hereby adopted for full application on all
building construction in the county as if set out at length herein.
      (1)   A copy of the code, together with a copy of all other regulations
of NFPA pamphlets adopted or referred to thereunder, is on file in the County
Clerk’s office, and the Clerk shall at all times keep a copy of the building
code for reference.
      (2)   An attested copy of the code shall be transmitted to the Department
of Housing, Buildings and Construction of the commonwealth.
   (B)   The Building Construction Inspector, or his or her employees, shall be
designated as the local enforcement agents for the code. All inspections shall
be performed by persons certified by the State Department of Housing, Buildings
and Construction.
   (C)   The application of the code is hereby extended to require permits,
inspections and certificates of occupancy for the construction or alteration
(new additions where electrical or sewer is needed on existing dwellings) of
all single-family dwellings to be constructed in the county.
   (D)   The fee for the construction inspection will be $200. The fee shall
cover the cost of plan review and inspection and issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
   (E)   As to fees for commercial buildings, any such fee charged shall match
the fee charged by the Level III Building Inspector.
(2001 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. passed 9-23-1999; Ord. passed 2-11-2003; Ord.
passed 9-9-2003; Ord. passed 1-29-2009)
§ 151.02 BUILDING INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   No dwellings shall be served through a non-occupancy electrical service
hook-up for more than 60 days from date of electrical inspection, without an
extension of time authorized by the Construction Inspector.
(2001 Code, § 150.02) (Ord. passed 12-14-1999)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Authorization, Findings, Purpose and Definitions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Objectives
   
152.05   Definitions
General Provisions
   
152.20   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.21   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.22   Establishment of development permit
   
152.23   Compliance
   
152.24   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.25   Interpretation
   
152.26   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.27   Enforcement, violation notice
Administration
   
152.40   Designation of Local Administrator
   
152.41   Establishment of development permit
   
152.42   Duties and responsibilities of the Local Administrator
   
152.43   Appeals and variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.55   General construction standards
   
152.56   Specific standards
   
152.57   Standards for streams without established base flood standards
(unnumbered A zones) and/or floodways
   
152.58   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
152.59   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.60   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
152.61   Critical facilities
 
   
152.99   Penalty
AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the commonwealth has in KRS 67.084 delegated to local
government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the
Fiscal Court of the county, hereby adopts the following floodplain management
ordinance, as follows.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood
damage.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential home buyers are on notice that property is in a
special flood hazard area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principle source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination
of both. In A ZONES, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are
usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of 100-year flood, base
flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principle structure, the use of which is incidental
to the use of the principle structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should constitute a
minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use, which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   A1-30 AND AE ZONES. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 1% annual
chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are shown.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
shown.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator’s ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1, A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO AND AR/A ZONES. Special flood hazard areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   A99 ZONE. The part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   B AND X ZONES (SHADED). Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood,
areas subject to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot
or with contributing drainage area less than one square mile, and areas
protected by levees from the base flood.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood, which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the 100-YEAR FLOOD). BASE FLOOD is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH and AR/AO
that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a 1%
or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all four sides.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other human-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated or qualified community
official) from available technical studies, historical information and other
available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic inundation by
floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated aboveground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter walls,
piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and nonresidential structures.)
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure’s elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFXP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. The portion of a structure below the base flood elevation (BFE)
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage or access to the
structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to
as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the county based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate to
low risk of flooding.
   FLOOD, FLOODING or FLOODWATER.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e., mudflows). See MUDSLIDES.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See FLOOD-
RELATED EROSION.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) and/or the flood boundary
floodway map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by floodwaters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a nonresidential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional hydraulic and/
or hydrologic analysis.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. FREEBOARD must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components and the like.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §
152.43, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the Fiscal Court
will consider the fact that every newly constructed structure adds to
government responsibilities and remains a part of the community for 50 to 100
years. Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood
elevation are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from
floods, while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are
subject to all the costs, inconvenience, danger and suffering that those
increased flood damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the
property, unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be
insured only at very high flood insurance rates.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e., county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The HAZARD POTENTIAL classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Increased cost of compliance coverage
provides for the payment of a claim for the cost to comply with state or
community floodplain management laws or ordinances after a direct physical loss
by flood. When a building covered by a standard flood insurance policy under
the NFIP sustains a loss and the state or community declares the building to be
substantially or repetitively damaged, ICC will help pay up to $30,000 for the
cost to elevate, floodproof, demolish or remove the building. ICC coverage is
available on residential and nonresidential buildings (this category includes
public or government buildings, such as schools, libraries and municipal
buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   KRS 151.250. Plans for dams, levees and the like to be approved and permit
issued by cabinet (Environmental and Public Protection Cabinet).
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the cabinet and a permit
issued; however, the cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions, which are not of such size or type as to require
approval by the cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county or other political subdivision of the state
shall commence the filing of any area with earth, debris or any other material,
or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building, barrier or
obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or stream or in
the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising or obstruction will in
any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the floodway of the
stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been submitted to and
approved by the cabinet and a permit issued as required in division (1) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this definition is intended to give the cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch or system
established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the same
except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by the
cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water resources
in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control thereof so
notified. The Department for Natural Resources through KRS Chapter 350 shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the regulation of
dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills or other obstructions across
or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which structures are
permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining operations.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps and flood insurance studies. LOMCs include the following
categories.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION. FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. 
      (1)   A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
      (2)   For a LEVEE SYSTEM to be recognized, the following criteria must be
met.
         (a)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
         (b)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or
state agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a
community participating in the NFIP.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood-resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support or
basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion of
construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure’s foundation
system.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
“recreational vehicle.” (See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.)
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) or the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (actual cash value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community’s FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) 1929 or NORTH
AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD) 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVP). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRMs. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the county’s floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the county’s adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos); pool houses; clubhouses;
recreational structures; mercantile structures; agricultural and industrial
structures; warehouses and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months’ duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRMs and digitally referenced FIRMs
(DFIRMs). Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (see BASE FLOOD). The flood that has
a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to the 100-YEAR FLOOD. Over
the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of experiencing such a flood
with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of PROBATION, each insurance
policy is subject to a $50 surcharge.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 C.F.R. §§
60.3, 60.4, 60.5 and/or 60.6.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is: built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community’s participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of
noncompliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten-year period where the value of damages
equals or exceeds an average of 50% of the current value of the structure,
beginning on the date when the damage first occurred, or, four or more flood
losses of $1,000 or more over the life of the structure, or, three or more
flood losses over the life of the structure that are equal to or greater than
the current value of the structure.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AO or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns or any work beyond
the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on the
property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground,
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other human-made
facilities or infrastructures. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Any damage to a building for which the cost of repairs
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the building prior to the damage
occurring. This term includes structures that are categorized as repetitive
loss.
      (1)   For the purposes of this definition, “repair” is considered to
occur when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure.”
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of reconstruction, alteration or
improvement to a building, taking place during a one-year period in which the
cumulative percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the current
market value of the building.
      (1)   For the purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when the
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure;” or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets, utilities
and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets, utilities and
pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   UTILITIES. Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in fee floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake
or underlying aquifer.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% probability of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood) in any year. Unshaded X ZONES (C zones on older
FIRMS) designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is
less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or a flood
insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.20 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated or qualified community official as determined by
the Fiscal Court of the county from available technical studies, historical
information and other available and reliable sources, areas within the
jurisdiction of the Fiscal Court of the county which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare of the citizens of the county.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.21 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the flood insurance study (FIS) for the county,
dated September 17, 2010 with the accompanying flood insurance rate maps
(FIRMS), other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations.
This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this
chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the Fiscal Court by
the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by the Fiscal Court pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are
permanent records of the county and are on file and available for review by the
public during regular business hours at County Building Inspection Office.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.22 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
152.41 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.23 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the Fiscal Court from taking such lawful action as is necessary
to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.24 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions; however, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.25 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.26 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the Fiscal Court of the county, any
officer or employee, the commonwealth, the Federal Insurance Administration or
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.27 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See division (C)
below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.40 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Fiscal Court of the county hereby appoints the Judge/Executive or
designee to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter by
granting or denying development permits in accordance with its provisions, and
is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.41 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or
other development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
152.21. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of local
administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
         (b)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure will be floodproofed;
         (c)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure will meet
the floodproofing criteria in §§
152.56(B) and
152.58(B)(2); and
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or floodproofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation, as built, in relation to mean sea level. In AE, A1-30, AH and A
Zones where the Community has adopted a regulatory base flood elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
         (b)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.42 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following.
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data.  When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
152.21, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
152.55 through
152.61. Any such information shall be submitted to the Fiscal Court for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the State Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
152.56(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
elevation certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.41(B)(2)(b);
         (b)   Certification required by §
152.56(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
a completed and certified floodproofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
152.41(B)(2)(b);
         (c)   Certification required by §
152.56(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
152.59(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
152.56(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §§
152.27 and
152.99.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
152.43(C)(2).
         (b)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
152.21, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.55 through
152.61.
         (c)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
152.56(B) a floodproofing certificate.
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he or she shall
first present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure
or premises are unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate
the owner or other persons having charge or control of such request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Administrator shall have recourse to
every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
      (7)   Stop-work orders. Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be
resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee or member of the Floodplain
Administrator’s staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render himself or herself personally liable, and is hereby relieved
from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties. Any suit brought against any officer, employee or member because
of such act performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter shall be defended by the Department of Law until the final termination
of the proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within 180 calendar days from the date of its issuance by the Floodplain
Administrator.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.43 APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Nature of variances. The variance criteria set forth in this section
of the ordinance are based on the general principle of zoning law that
variances pertain to a piece of property and are not personal in nature.
      (1)   A variance may be granted for a parcel of property with physical
characteristics so unusual that complying with the requirements of this chapter
would create an exceptional hardship to the applicant or the surrounding
property owners. The characteristics must be unique to the property and not be
shared by adjacent parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain to the land
itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of the Fiscal Court to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
   (B)   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board. The Fiscal Court of the
county shall establish an Appeal Board consisting of members of the Fiscal
Court.
   (C)   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board.
      (1)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from
the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the local Circuit Court, as provided in
the state statutes.
   (D)   Appeals/variance procedures. In passing upon such applications, the
Appeal Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
all standards specified in other sections of this chapter, and the:
      (1)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
      (2)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the
proposed facility;
      (5)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case
of functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
      (10)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      (11)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets and bridges.
   (E)   Conditions for variances. Upon consideration of the factors listed
above and the purposes of this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. MINIMUM NECESSARY means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the Fiscal Court need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the Fiscal Court believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the “minimum necessary” to afford relief considering the flood
hazard. In the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be
made that the variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not
destroy the historic character and design of the structure.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under “public safety and nuisance”), cause fraud or victimization of
the public (as defined in the definition section) or conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances.
      (5)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (6)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
      (7)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of divisions (D)(1)
through (D)(11) above are satisfied and that the structure or other development
is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
does not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a
public nuisance.
   (F)   Variance notification. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted
shall be given written notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land;
and
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Historic structures. Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of “historic structures” (see definition) upon determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as an historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (H)   No impact certification within the floodway. Variances shall not be
issued within any mapped or designated floodway if any increase in flood levels
during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.55 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said nonconformity is not furthered, extended or replaced.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.56 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
152.21, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor; including basement, mechanical equipment and ductwork elevated no lower
than at or above the base flood elevation.
      (1)   Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with standards of division (C)
below.
         (a)   In an AO Zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
         (b)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated at or above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data can be produced.
Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
states as a part of the technical requirements for a state floodplain permit:
The applicant shall provide cross-sections for determining floodway boundaries
(and thereby base flood elevations) at any proposed construction site where
FEMA maps are not available. All cross-sections shall be referenced to mean sea
level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no more than five-tenths
foot. Cross-sections elevations shall be taken at those points which represent
significant breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of
the base floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend across the entire
base floodplain and shall be in the number and at the locations specified by
the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant flood damage will not
occur, the cabinet may require additional cross-sections or specific site
elevations which extend beyond those needed for making routine regulatory
floodway boundary calculations.
         (c)   In all other zones, elevated at or above the base flood
elevation.
      (2)   Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community Building Inspection
Department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure
(including manufactured homes used for nonresidential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with division (A) above or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation at or above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment and
ductwork, elevated no lower than at or above the level of the base flood
elevation;
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
152.41(B)(2)(a);
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in division (D) below;
and
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials below an
elevation at or above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical Bulletin I-
93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base flood
elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to
allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)    All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH and AE on the community’s flood insurance
rate map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction, including
elevation and anchoring.
         (a)   Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; or
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as the result
of a flood.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than at or above the
level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage as
a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that the
manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, so that either the:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than at or above the level of the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH and AE on the community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for “manufactured
homes.”
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the state motor vehicle regulations, is
on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.21, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and has erosion potential, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge.
      (2)   If this division (E) is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements and other proposed new development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
152.55 through
152.61.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.57 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD STANDARDS
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.21, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or floodproofed to elevations established in accordance with §
152.21.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
§ 152.58 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.21 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
   (B)   These areas have flood hazards associated with base flood depths of
one to three feet, where a clearly defined channel does not exist and the water
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following
provisions apply.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above either the base flood elevation or, in Zone AO, the flood depth specified
on the flood insurance rate map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO,
if no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or, in Zone AO, the flood depth specified on
the flood insurance rate map, above the highest adjacent grade, in Zone AO, if
no flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade; and
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
152.56(B).
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.59 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is
the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.60 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER “A.”
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A,”
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot above grade,
total openings are to be one square inch per one square foot of floor area, at
least two openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood-resistant materials below a level one foot above the
base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.61 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the floodway; however,
they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined no less than $100 or imprisoned for not more than ten days, or both, and
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case, Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the Floodplain Administrator from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 01-05.25.10, passed 5-27-2010)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Authority
   
153.03   Jurisdiction
   
153.04   Definitions
Administrative Procedures
   
153.15   Applicability
   
153.16   Pre-application meeting with Planning Commission
   
153.17   Minor plat approval
   
153.18   Preliminary plat approval
   
153.19   Construction plans
   
153.20   Final plat approval
   
153.21   Enforcement
   
153.22   Amendment
   
153.23   Effective date
Design Standards
   
153.35   Purpose
   
153.36   Street design standards
   
153.37   Block design standards
   
153.38   Lot design standards
   
153.39   Easement design standards
   
153.40   Community facilities design standards
   
153.41   Soil erosion/sediment control/stormwater management
   
153.42   Suitability of the land for subdivision development
   
153.43   Landscaping standards
   
153.44   Department of Highways may review plats
 
   
153.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Forms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Land subdivision is the first step in the process of community
development. Once land has been divided into streets, blocks, lots and open
spaces, a pattern has been established which usually determines how well
community needs for residence, business and industry will be met. It also
determines to a great extent how well the community will be able to handle its
traffic circulation problems, how well it will be able to meet the demands for
home sites and how efficiently and economically it will be able to provide the
many services demanded of it. Land development and divisions in relationship to
the county is anticipated to be somewhat different than traditional urban land
divisions and development. The Comprehensive Plan anticipates primarily large
lot rural residential and limited commercial development. These regulations are
also implemented in order to ensure development that occurs in the Cedar Creek
Lake Watershed occurs in an effective and efficient manner which protects the
water quality and quantity of the lake and preserves the scenic rural nature of
the area.
   (B)   Once land has been subdivided and officially recorded, it is difficult
and costly to correct defects and deficiencies in subdivision layout and in the
facilities provided. Additionally, a subdivided area eventually becomes a
public responsibility in that roads and streets must be maintained and public
services customary to residential developments must be provided. The welfare of
the entire community is thereby affected in many important respects. The
guidance of land development in harmony with community objectives is therefore
a matter of serious public concern, and it is in the interest of the public,
the developer and the future owners that subdivisions be conceived, designed
and developed in accordance with sound rules and proper minimum standards.
   (C)   These subdivision regulations, copies of which are filed in the office
of the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission, and the County Judge/
Executive, are designed to provide for the harmonious development of the
subdivided area; for a coordinated layout; for the proper arrangement of
streets, for adequate and convenient open spaces; for traffic, utilities,
recreation, light, air and access of firefighting equipment; for avoidance of
population congestion through requirements for minimum lot widths and lot
areas; for adequate provision of water, sanitary and storm sewer, and other
sanitary facilities; and for reducing erosion and flood damage potentials to
the greatest extent possible.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.02 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   These subdivision regulations were adopted under the authority granted
by the KRS 100.273 through 100.307. The Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning
Commission, which was established in accordance with the KRS 100.117, has
fulfilled the requirements set forth in the applicable sections of the state
statutes as necessary for the adoption of such regulations.
   (B)   These regulations provide a procedure and minimum standards of design
and construction by which the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission
can equitably appraise all proposed plats for land subdivision plat
preparation, review and approval requirements. These regulations shall also be
applied to all development and construction on existing undeveloped lots. All
proposed development must comply with these regulations, especially in relation
to the design of the proposed roads and other improvements and provisions for
erosion control and best management construction practices, and other
development standards to ensure compliance with the design standards
established by these subdivision regulations. These design standards must be
met prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit.
   (C)   The applicant for the subdivision, at the time of the filing of the
application for the subdivision, may elect to have any variance for the same
development heard and decided by the Planning Commission in conjunction with
the subdivision plat review as per KRS 100.281(7b).
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.03 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern all subdivisions of land within the of the
unincorporated areas of the county, as established at the formation of the
Commission and in the adopted Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the singular include the plural; the word PERSON includes
association, firm, partnership, trust, governmental body, corporation,
organization, as well as an individual; the word STRUCTURE includes building;
the word OCCUPIED includes arranged, designed or intended to be occupied; the
word USED includes arranged, designed or intended to be used; the word SHALL is
always mandatory and not merely directive; the word MAY is permissive. Other
words and terms shall have the following respective meanings.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. Any department, employee or advisory, elected or
appointed body which is authorized to administer any provision of the zoning
regulations, subdivision regulations and if delegated, any provision of any
housing or building regulation or any other land use control regulation.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of any tract of at least five contiguous acres for
the production of agricultural or horticultural crops, including, but not
limited to, livestock, livestock products, poultry, poultry products, grain,
hay, pastures, soybeans, tobacco, timber, orchard fruits, vegetables, flowers
or ornamental plants, including provision for dwellings for persons and their
families who are engaged in the above agricultural use on the tract, but not
including residential building development for sale or lease to the public.
   AS-BUILT PLANS: Engineering plans of public facilities, particularly water
and sewage systems, prepared after construction to show the exact location and
dimensions of the system as it has actually been installed.
   BIKEWAY. A way or portion of a way intended and designated primarily for
bicycle traffic.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line in the interior of a lot which is generally
parallel to and a specified distance from the street right-of-way line or
lines. No building shall then be placed in the space between the BUILDING
SETBACK LINE and the right-of-way lines.
   CHAIRPERSON. The elected Chairperson of the Planning Commission, or, in his
or her absence, the Vice Chairperson or other delegate.
   COMMISSION. The Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission formed by the
County Fiscal Court for the purpose of developing land use plans and
regulations within the boundary of the county and charged with administering
these regulations.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan, or portion thereof, adopted by the Planning
Commission in accordance with KRS 100.183 through 100.197, showing the general
location and extent of present and proposed physical facilities including
housing, commercial and industrial uses, major streets, parks, schools and
other community facilities. This plan also establishes the goals, objectives
and policies of the community which are also adopted by the Fiscal Court.
   COUNTY. The territory of Lincoln County, Kentucky.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. The engineer employed or contracted by the county for the
purpose of administering the operation of public facilities and inspecting the
plans and construction of these public facilities.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, firm, association, corporation, government,
agency or any other legal entity commencing proceedings under these
regulations, to carry out the development of land as defined herein, for
himself or herself or for another.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A presentation in the form of sketches, maps and drawings
(plans and profiles) of a proposed use and/or structure by the owner of the
land which sets forth in detail the intended development (see site plan). At a
minimum, a DEVELOPMENT PLAN shall include the same information required for
preliminary plats in the county subdivision regulations, unless otherwise
waived by the Planning Commission. DEVELOPMENT PLANS shall be required by the
Planning Commission for all zone change requests and shall be required for all
industrial developments consisting of one building or more and all other
developments consisting of two or more principal buildings. The subdivision
preliminary and final plat process shall satisfy the DEVELOPMENT PLAN
requirements for all single-family residential developments.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by others, of any
designated part of his or her property, for a specified purpose and time as
described in the conveyance of land by such easement.
   FINAL SUBDIVISION PLAT. The final map, drawing or chart upon which the
subdivider’s plan of subdivision is presented to the Planning Commission for
approval and which, if approved, will be submitted to the County Clerk for
recording.
   GRADE. This inclination from the horizontal of a road, unimproved land and
the like, and is expressed by stating the vertical rise or fall as a percent of
the horizontal distance.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The chief body of a city or a county with legislative
power, whether it is the Board of Aldermen, the General Council, the Common
Council, the Board of Commissioners or the County Fiscal Court.
   LOT or PARCEL. A portion of land in a subdivision or plat of land, separated
from other lots or portions of land by description as on a subdivision or
record of survey map or by metes and bounds; for the purpose of sale, lease or
separate use. All LOTS shall front on a public street.
   LOT AREA. The amount of surface land contained within the property lines of
a lot, including the land within easements on the lot, but excluding any land
within the street right-of-way or public open space.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets. A lot
abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear
property lines of a lot.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot is that portion nearest to the street. For
the purpose of determining yard requirements for corner and through lots, all
sides of a lot adjacent to a street shall be considered FRONTAGE.
   LOT-OF-RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Clerk, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has also been recorded.
   LOT, THROUGH OR DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot of which the opposite ends abut on
streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the two side property lines of a lot
measured along the building setback line. The width between side property lines
along the right-of-way line should not be less than 60% of the LOT WIDTH for
residential lots.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN (OR TRANSPORTATION PLAN). The portion of the Comprehensive
Plan pertaining to transportation and existing and proposed streets.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAT. See §
153.17.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land available to the public in which two or
more mobile home lots are occupied or intended for occupancy by mobile homes
and includes any service building, structure, enclosure or other facility used
as a part of the park.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS. A tract of land subdivided for residential
development limited to the use of mobile homes wherein the parcels subdivided
are intended for sale or lease.
   OFFICIAL PUBLIC PROPERTIES MAP or OFFICIAL MAP. A map prepared in accordance
with KRS 100.293 through 100.317 and adopted by the Planning Commission and/or
the legislative body, showing the location and extent of the existing and
proposed public streets, including right-of-way, watercourses, parks and
playgrounds, public schools and building sites, and other public facility
needs.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, corporation, governmental agency
or any other legal entity whose name last appears on the tax roles as owner of
the land proposed to be subdivided.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of land in which a variety of housing
types and/or related commercial and industrial facilities are accommodated in a
pre-planned environment under more flexible standards, such as lot sizes and
setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under these
regulations.
   PLAT. A map or layout of a subdivision indicating the location and
boundaries of individual properties.
   SKETCH PLAT. A preliminary sketch indicating the subdivider’s general
objectives and desires in regard to the future development of his or her land,
presented to the Planning Commission for its informal consideration.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The drawings and supplementary material indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision and its public facilities to be submitted to
the Planning Commission for its consideration.
   PUBLIC FACILITY. Any use of land, whether publicly or privately owned, for
transportation, utilities or communications, or for the benefit of the general
public, including, but not limited to, libraries, streets, schools, fire or
police stations, county buildings, municipal buildings, recreational centers
including parks and cemeteries.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land used generally for streets, sidewalks, alleys, easements
or other public uses. RIGHT-OF-WAY also refers to the distance between lot
property lines which generally contains not only the street pavement, but also
sidewalks, grass area and underground and aboveground utilities.
   SETBACK LINE. See BUILDING SETBACK LINE.
   SIDEWALK. A way or portion of a way intended primarily for pedestrian
traffic.
   SIGHT DISTANCE. A straight line of unobstructed view measured between a
point four feet above the finished surface of a road, at the centerline of each
traffic lane, and a point at a given minimum specified distance away from the
first point, located one foot above the finished surface at the centerline of
the same traffic lane.
   SITE PLAN. A development plan of one or more lots on which is shown the
existing and proposed topography of the lots, the location of all existing and
proposed buildings, drives, parking spaces, means of ingress and egress,
drainage facilities, landscaping, structures and signs, lighting, screening
devices and any other information that may be reasonably required in order to
make an informed decision.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which provides a public means of vehicular and
pedestrian access to abutting property. The term street shall include avenue,
drive, circle, road, parkway, boulevard, highway, thoroughfare or any other
similar term. The right-of-way limits of any STREET shall include the street
pavement, curb and gutter (or open ditches) and may provide space for the
location of utilities. The right-of-way limits of any STREET shall be
coincidental to the property line of the adjacent or the abutting lot. STREETS
are classified specifically herein as follows (see
Exhibit 8-1).
      (1)   ARTERIALS. ARTERIAL STREETS rank second in the classification of
streets, and are primarily for vehicular movement. Access to abutting
properties, if permitted, should be provided by means of a marginal access
street in order to serve several abutting properties, rather than by providing
each abutting property its own individual access thereto. ARTERIAL STREETS are
the link between expressways and collector streets, and generally rank next to
expressways in traffic volume, speed limit control and right-of-way limits.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREETS. COLLECTOR STREETS rank third in the
classification of streets, and they are principally used for vehicular
movement; however, access to abutting properties is planned and controlled so
that minimum disturbance is made to the traffic flow on said collector street.
COLLECTORS are the link between arterial and minor streets, and generally rank
next to minor streets in right-of-way lengths and speed control.
      (3)   EXPRESSWAYS. EXPRESSWAYS rank first in the classification of
streets and are used only for vehicular movement without access to abutting
properties. Interchange of traffic between expressways and other streets (only
arterial streets when possible) is accomplished by grade separated interchange
with merging deceleration and acceleration lanes. This class of streets are
typically constructed with state and/or federal funds.
      (4)   LOCAL STREETS (MINOR STREETS). LOCAL STREETS rank fourth in the
classification of streets and are used primarily for providing access to
abutting properties. Vehicular movement on LOCAL STREETS should have an origin
or destination in the immediate vicinity, whereas all types of through-traffic
should be eliminated. LOCAL STREETS are the primary link between generator
points (homes, offices, stores and the like) and collector streets. LOCAL
STREETS may be further classified to include the following.
         (a)   ALLEYS. ALLEYS are streets generally having two open ends with
each end connecting to different streets. Such streets generally provide
service and access to the rear of abutting properties on both sides.
         (b)   CUL-DE-SACS. CUL-DE-SACS are minor streets having only one open
end providing access to another street, and a closed end providing a turn-
around circle for vehicular movement. No streets of this type shall dead-end at
the closed end without provisions for a turn-around circle. Temporary turn-
around circles may be required when a street is proposed to be continued in the
future or when otherwise deemed necessary by the Commission.
         (c)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS are minor
streets generally having two or more access points to the major street system
by connecting to a street of higher classification. Property abuts only one
side of such a street whereas the other side thereof should generally be
parallel and adjacent to a street of higher classification. MARGINAL ACCESS
STREETS are sometimes called ACCESS OR FRONTAGE ROADS.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm association, corporation, governmental
agency or any other legal entity commencing proceedings under these
regulations, to create a subdivision of land as defined herein for himself or
for another.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into three or more lots or
parcels for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease or
building development, or if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel
of land; providing that a division of land for agricultural purposes into lots
or parcels of five acres or more and not involving a new street shall not be
deemed a SUBDIVISION. The term includes RESUBDIVISION and, when appropriate to
the context, shall relate to the process of subdivision or to the land
subdivided. Any request to divide more than one tract per year from any parent
tract shall imply the intent to create a SUBDIVISION and such proposal will be
required to comply with all the major plat requirements of these subdivision
regulations. A single lot division may be considered a minor plat as determined
by the Planning Commission.
   UNIT. A portion of a subdivision selected for development as one of a series
of stages.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 153.15 APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations and standards shall apply to the subdivision of any tract
of land into two or more parcels, counting the original tract; the
consolidation of two or more parcels of land into a fewer number of parcels;
and to the amendment of any subdivision plat previously approved by the
Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.16 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING WITH PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Before preparing a plat and subletting it to the Planning
Commission for approval, the subdivider should meet and consult informally with
the Planning Commission for the purpose of ascertaining the locations of
proposed and major streets, parks, playgrounds, school sites and other planned
projects, which may affect the property being considered for subdivision. At
the pre-application meeting, the subdivider should review with the Planning
Commission the minimum standards of subdivision design set forth in §§
153.35 through
153.44. This informal review should prevent unnecessary and costly revisions in
the layout and development of the subdivision. Formal application or filing of
a plat with the Planning Commission is not required for this informal advisory
meeting; however, it is helpful if a sketch plat as detailed in division (B)
below is prepared.
      (2)   At the pre-application conference the proposed subdivision will be
classified as a major or minor subdivision and the subdivider advised
accordingly of the proper procedure to follow. Major subdivisions shall be
processed in accordance with §§
153.18 through
153.20. Minor subdivisions shall be processed in accordance with §
153.17.
   (B)   Sketch plat. 
      (1)   The subdivider may submit a sketch plat containing the information
specified below. This plat may be in pencil, on a sheet of paper or other
suitable material of adequate size to show the subdivided area at a scale of
100 feet per inch or other suitable scale. The sketch plat does not have to be
prepared or certified by a registered professional surveyor or engineer.
      (2)   A well prepared sketch plat includes the proposed name of
subdivision, date, north arrow, scale; name and address of property owner and
developer; a generalized vicinity sketch showing existing roads and their
names, the subject property, and major streams; generalized shape of the
subject property at scale of 100 feet per inch with boundary dimensions and
total acreage; existing physical features including natural drainageways,
existing structures, wooded areas, ponds, sink holes; generalized topographic
contours at 20-foot intervals; generalized layout of proposed streets and lots;
names of adjacent land owners or subdivisions; existing and proposed zoning;
information about available utilities and proposed methods of service for water
supply, sanitary sewer, storm water drainage; relationship to community
services including shopping, schools, parks; and the proposed land use for all
parcels.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.17 MINOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   At the pre-application meeting (§
153.16), the Commission will determine whether the proposed subdivision
constitutes a major or minor subdivision; and in the case of minor subdivision,
the lesser significance on the long range development of the community is
considered justification for simplifying and expediting the processing of such
plats.
   (A)   Minor plat criteria. To qualify for consideration as a minor
subdivision plat, a subdivision must meet one of the following situations:
      (1)   A single lot multi-lot division, where a subdivision contains a
total of two three lots, including the remainder of the original tract;
provided both lots front on an existing public street; and the division
involves no opening, widening or extension or streets or utilities;
      (2)   Consolidation plats where the division provides for the transfer of
land between adjacent property owners and does not involve the creation of any
new lots or building sites;
      (3)   Consolidation plats where up to and including five lots of record
are consolidated to create a lesser number of parcels and involved no new
public improvements; or
      (4)   Plats of correction where there is a need to make technical
revisions to a recorded final plat of an engineering or drafting nature or
similar small discrepancy, but not including the altering of any property lines
or public improvement requirements.
   (B)   Minor plat requirements. 
      (1)   The following information shall be included on any minor plat
presented for review by the Commission unless accompanied by a request for
waiver:
         (a)   Name of subdivision and portion thereof, date, label “minor
plat,” graphic scale, north arrow;
         (b)   Total site data including acreage, number of lots, area and lot
number of the smallest lot, square feet of area or acres in parks and other
public uses, zone districts that apply to subdivision;
         (c)   Name and address of property owner, subdivider (if other than
owner);
         (d)   Name, address and seal of the licensed professional land
surveyor responsible for preparation of the plat and certification that the
plat represents a survey made by him or her and that all monuments shown
actually exist, and their location, size and material are correctly shown;
         (e)   Names and adjacent property owners or subdivisions and abutting
streets;
         (f)   Vicinity map at a scale of 2,000 feet per inch or greater
showing the subject property and surrounding land within one-half mile existing
street systems and their connections with proposed streets;
         (g)   All exterior plat boundary lines with lengths of courses and
bearings as determined by an accurate survey in the field. The plat shall be
prepared at a scale of not smaller than 100 feet per inch;
         (h)   Bearing and distance to nearest established street lines or
other recognized permanent monuments;
         (i)   Exact location, right-of-way and names of all streets adjoining
the plat;
         (j)   Location and dimensions of all easements or right-of-way when
provided for or owned by public utilities, with the limitations of the easement
rights definitely stated on the plat;
         (k)   Location of lots and blocks showing dimensions to nearest one
hundredth foot, bearings of lot lines building setback and identification by
consecutive lot number or letter designation;
         (l)   Lot width at building setback line and front lot line for lots
located on curves;
         (m)   All permanent monuments, witness monuments or pins set to be set
shall be shown and described on the minor plat. Such monuments shall be set at
the intersections of property lines, the intersection of street centerlines,
and at angles along the subdivision boundary. Any required monument or pin
destroyed before acceptance of improvements shall be replaced by the subdivider
or developer; and
         (n)   Subdivision plats being submitted for industrial and commercial
development shall also show buildings including entrances, loading areas and,
when possible, the number of establishments to be contained within.
      (2)   The following items of supplementary information shall be submitted
with and included as part of the minor subdivision plat:
         (a)   Copy of completed subdivision application form for minor plat
review and payment of subdivision processing fees;
         (b)   Deed restrictions and protective covenants shall either be
placed on the minor plat or attached thereto in form for recording (if recorded
separately, reference to the restrictions shall be made on the minor plat);
         (c)   Certificates
1, 2 and
3 as indicated in the
Appendix; and
         (d)   If any portion of the proposed development lies within any 100-
year floodplain, the boundaries of such floodplain shall be shown on the plat.
   (C)   Minor plat procedure.
      (1)   Upon the determination that a proposed subdivision meets the minor
plat criteria of divisions (A) and (B) above, the subdivider shall proceed
directly with the preparation of the plat for the Chairperson’s signature and
recording.
      (2)   An application for review of the minor plat and five copies of the
plat shall be submitted at least 21 days prior to a regularly scheduled
Commission meeting to the Chairperson or his or her designee. The Chairperson
or his or her designee may decide at this time to waive the required public
review of the minor plat upon the determination that all plat requirements are
met. If he or she so chooses, the Chairperson may sign the plat thus certifying
its approval for recording by the County Clerk and not require it to be
presented at a Commission meeting.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.18 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   If the proposal is determined to be a major subdivision, after the pre-
application meeting with the Planning Commission, the subdivider shall have a
preliminary plat prepared and submitted to the Planning Commission for its
approval prior to making of any street improvements or the installation of any
utilities.
   (A)   Preliminary plat data. The preliminary plat shall meet with the
standards of design as set forth in §§
153.35 through
153.43, and shall show the following information:
      (1)   Graphic scale of 200 feet to one inch or larger; label “preliminary
plat”; north arrow; vicinity sketch map (one inch equals 2,000 feet); date;
      (2)   Name of subdivision, names and addresses of the owners, the
licensed professional land surveyor and the owners of adjacent property;
      (3)   Acreage of land to be subdivided;
      (4)   Contours at an interval of not greater than five feet or at a
lesser interval if deemed necessary by the Planning Commission;
      (5)   Boundary lines of area to be subdivided and their bearings and
distances;
      (6)   Existing and proposed easements and their locations, widths and
distances;
      (7)   Streets on and adjacent to the tract and their names, widths,
approximate grades, profiles (one inch equals 20 feet), and other dimensions as
may be required;
      (8)   Utilities on and adjacent to the tract showing proposed connections
to existing utility systems; plans and profiles for all proposed utilities;
existing culverts and watercourses. General location and size of proposed
stormwater facilities including retention/detention facilities and swales. Rear
easements for utility poles and wires shall be required wherever possible;
      (9)   Lot lines and lot numbers;
      (10)   Sites and their acreages, if any, to be reserved or dedicated for
parks, playgrounds, schools or other public uses. Sites, if any, for non-
single-family use;
      (11)   Minimum building setback lines;
      (12)   Copies of proposed deed restrictions, if any, shall be attached to
the preliminary plat;
      (13)   Clearly indicate or discuss proposed erosion control methods
during construction;
      (14)   Certificates
1, 2, 4, 6, 7 and
8 as indicated in the
Appendix; and
      (15)   See
Exhibit 8-2, Typical Sample Preliminary Plat.
   (B)   Procedure. These procedures shall be adhered to in all cases; and no
hearings or plat reviews shall be considered without compliance to the
procedures identified below.
      (1)   Fifteen copies of the complete preliminary plat and supplementary
material specified (see preliminary plat data requirements) shall be submitted
to the Planning Commission Administrative Officer/Planning and Zoning Office at
least 21 days prior to the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission
meeting.
      (2)   The Administrative/Enforcement Officer for the Planning Commission
shall notify the subdivider of the time and place of the meeting at which the
plat will be discussed.
      (3)   Within 60 days after the review of the preliminary plat, the
Planning Commission shall approve, disapprove or approve subject to
modification the said plat. If a plat is disapproved, reasons for such
disapproval will be stated in writing. If approved subject to modifications,
the nature of the required modifications shall be indicated in writing. The
action of the Planning Commission shall be noted on two copies of the
preliminary plat with any notations made at the time of approval or disapproval
of the specific changes required. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider
and the other retained by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Approval of the preliminary plat shall not constitute acceptance of
the final plat. Upon approval of the preliminary plat, the developer may
proceed with improvements to the land at his or her own risk and subject to
development standards set forth in this chapter. Prior to final plat approval
all improvements must be complete or have adequate bonding in place. No lots
may be sold until the final plat is approved and properly filed in the County
Clerk’s office. The approval of the preliminary plat shall lapse one year from
the date of such approval. An extension of time may be applied for by the
subdivider and granted by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Subdivision of a portion of a larger tract. When part of a tract is
proposed to be subdivided and the subdivider intends to subdivide additional
parts of the tract in the future, a sketch plan or a conceptual development
plan for the entire tract shall be submitted to the Planning Commission at the
same time the preliminary plat for the first part of the tract to be platted is
submitted. The sketch or conceptual plan is non-binding except in conformance
with the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.19 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   The preliminary plat is not considered officially approved until such time
as the construction plans for the streets and other public improvements, if
necessary, have been approved by the appropriate legislative body or agency.
   (A)   Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Commission, such
plat shall be forwarded to the County Engineer, along with the construction
plans for all public improvements for their approval.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, Fiscal Court or their authorized agent will
then forward said preliminary plat, construction plans and other material to a
selected and proper engineer or engineering firm, who shall examine said
preliminary plat and construction plans and determine whether or not the
construction design aspects of said plat comply with these regulations. Said
engineer or engineering firm shall then certify by letter to the Planning
Commission or the Fiscal Court its findings. The Planning Commission or Fiscal
Court shall then make an order either approving or not approving the
construction design aspects of said preliminary plat as it relates to these
regulations. If said construction design aspects of the preliminary plat is
ordered approved according to these regulations, the Planning Commission or
Fiscal Court, or its authorized representative shall execute a certificate or
letter showing such approval.
   (C)   Approval of the construction plans shall authorize the subdivider to
proceed with construction according to the terms of division (D) below and/or
to construct the minimum improvements required and submit a final plat with the
balance of the improvements bonded in accordance with the requirement of these
regulations.
   (D)   Prior to the beginning of any construction of any road and/or street
as regulated by these regulations, the County Judge/Executive or his or her
designated agent shall be given notice of the beginning date of said
construction. Said notice shall be reasonable in time, but no less than two
weeks prior to the beginning of said construction. The Fiscal Court and/or its
authorized agent shall notify the selected engineer or engineering firm and
they shall inspect all construction within these regulations as the
construction and work is being done. Said engineer or engineering firm shall be
known as a Resident Engineer and shall enforce compliance with these
regulations and the approved construction plans and then shall certify to the
legislative body that such construction was done pursuant to said approved
construction plans and these regulations.
   (E)   Upon approval by the Planning Commission of the final plat of said
subdivision, a copy of said final plat shall also be forwarded to the County
Engineer.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.20 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, and it may constitute only a portion of the preliminary plat which
the subdivider proposes to record and develop.
   (A)   Final plat data. The final plat shall give the following information:
      (1)   Scale of 100 feet to one inch or larger; graphic scale; north
arrow;
      (2)   Name of subdivision, names and addresses of owner(s), the licensed
professional land surveyor and adjacent property owners;
      (3)   Acreage of land to be subdivided;
      (4)   All dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall
be tied to permanent benchmarks. These benchmarks shall be U.S.G.S. survey
benchmarks, the nearest established control points, other official monuments or
witness monuments as standard. Locations and descriptions of said benchmarks
shall be given;
      (5)   Tract boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets, easements and
other rights-of-way, and property lines of residential lots and other sides
with accurate dimensions to the nearest one hundredth of a foot; bearings of
deflection angles, radii, arcs and central angles of all curves with dimensions
to the nearest second. Landscaping requirements shall be indicated to comply
with design standards;
      (6)   Name and right-of-way width of each street, easement or other
right-of-way;
      (7)   Lot numbers and addresses;
      (8)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots are dedicated
or reserved;
      (9)   Minimum building setback lines in accordance with zoning ordinance
(
Chapter 154); in no case shall it be less than 35 feet from the right-of-way
line;
      (10)   Location and description of monuments, including benchmarks,
existing streams or other bodies of water, significant trees and tree stands,
sinkholes and the like;
      (11)   Names and location of adjoining subdivisions and streets, the
location of adjoining unplatted properties, and the names and addresses of the
owners of adjoining unplatted properties;
      (12)   Certification on plat of title showing that the applicant is the
owner and a statement by such owner dedicating streets, right-of-way and other
sites for public use (
Form 1);
      (13)   Certification on plat by licensed professional land surveyor as to
the accuracy of survey and plat (
Form 2);
      (14)   Certification by the County Health Officer of individual
subsurface sewage disposal or approval by the applicable sewer district of
acceptance of relevant improvements (
Form 8);
      (15)   Certification (
Form 5) that the subdivider has complied with one of the following
alternatives:
         (a)   All the improvements have been installed in accordance with the
requirements of these regulations; or
         (b)   A security bond, irrevocable letter of credit or certified check
has been posted with the county in sufficient amount to assure such completion
of all required improvements in compliance with division (C) below.
      (16)   Cross-sections, profiles and grades of streets, curbs, gutters
showing the locations of in-street utilities and drawn to county
specifications, and elevations shall be attached to the final plat. Road
profiles and roadway design shall be signed by a licensed engineer. Plats shall
bear the seal and signature of such engineer. The engineer shall be licensed to
do business in the commonwealth;
      (17)   Protective covenants shall either be placed directly on the final
plat or attached thereto in form for recording;
      (18)   Certification on plat by the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission that the plat has been approved for recording in the office of the
County Clerk (
Form 3); and
      (19)   See
Exhibit 8-3, Typical Final Plat.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Fifteen copies of the final plat, together with any street profiles
or other plans that may be required shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission Administrative Officer/Planning and Zoning Office by the subdivider
at least 21 days prior to the meeting, at which time it is reviewed. At least
three copies of the plat shall contain all original signatures.
      (2)   The final plat shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission who
will check said plat as to computations, certifications, monuments and the
like, and determine that all the required improvements have been completed to
the satisfaction of the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission. A
security bond, irrevocable letter of credit or certified check may be posted in
sufficient amount to cover the cost of the required improvements if such
improvements are not complete. The Planning Commission shall establish the
amount deemed sufficient if this option is elected.
      (3)   One copy shall be transmitted to the County Health Department
Officer or the appropriate sewer district. If the plat meets the approval of
the appropriate agency, three copies must be signed by the appropriate
authority.
      (4)   One copy shall be transmitted to the County Fire Department, as
appropriate, for review and approval of fire safety compliance.
      (5)   Within the 60 days after review of the final plat, the Planning
Commission shall approve or disapprove the said plat. Failure of the Planning
Commission to act upon this final plat within 60 days shall be deemed approval
of the plat. If the plat is disapproved, the grounds for disapproval shall be
stated in the records of the Planning Commission.
      (6)   Approval by the Planning Commission shall not constitute acceptance
by the public of the dedication of any street, other public way or ground.
      (7)   When the final plat has been approved by the Planning Commission,
two copies shall be returned to the subdivider, with the approval of the
Planning Commission certified thereon, one copy for proper filing with the
County Clerk as an official plat record and one for the subdivider’s records.
Another copy certified by the Planning Commission will be retained by the
Planning Commission and Fiscal Court for their records and any necessary action
on any proposed dedication.
   (C)   Construction guarantees.
      (1)   Prior to the submission of the final plat to the Commission for
approval, the developer shall complete all required improvements to the
satisfaction of the County Engineer and/or the appropriate utilities who will
certify their satisfactory completion in writing to the Commission.
      (2)   The developer may execute and file guarantees of construction with
the Planning Commission in lieu of completion of some of the required
improvements when requesting approval of the final plat. The developer shall
install all soil erosion and sedimentation controls, street construction
(except for the final course of blacktop), and stormwater retention facilities
to the satisfaction of the County Engineer prior to the submission of the final
plat. In addition to the final course of blacktop, water and sewer utilities,
and clean-up may have guarantees of construction submitted in accordance with
these regulations.
      (3)   The developer shall submit to the Planning Commission, Fiscal Court
or the County Engineer an estimated cost calculated to be reasonably necessary
to complete all of the improvements required for their review and approval. The
Planning Commission or Fiscal Court shall establish the bond amount at 125% of
the cost approved and deemed sufficient.
      (4)   The bond may be in the form of a surety bond, certified check,
irrevocable letter of credit or a cash bond or negotiable United States
Treasury certificates of the kind approved by law for securing deposits of
public money. The bond shall be executed by the developer as principal, and if
a surety bond, shall be executed by a corporation authorized to act as a surety
under the laws of the commonwealth, as surety. The bond shall be a joint bond
and several obligations, faithful performance of any and all work and the
construction and installation of all improvements required to be done by the
developer together with all engineering and inspection costs and fees incurred
by the county. The bond shall contain the further condition that should the
developer fail to complete all work and improvements required to be done by him
or her within 12 consecutive calendar months of the date of approval of the
final plat, or within a mutually agreed upon extension not to exceed 12
consecutive calendar months, the Planning Commission or Fiscal Court may, at
their option, cause all required work to be done and improvements constructed.
The parties executing the bond shall be firmly bound for the payment of all
necessary costs therefore. Whenever the developer elects to deposit cash,
certified check or approved negotiable United States Treasury certificates, the
Planning Commission or Fiscal Court shall be authorized, in the event of any
default on the part of the developer or the performance of any work or
construction of any improvements for which the cash or negotiable bonds has
been deposited, to cause the required work to be done and to withdraw that
amount required for payment of all costs therefor.
      (5)   At such time that the developer has completed such improvements
specified in the bond guarantee, the developer shall notify the County Engineer
or the appropriate utility who will inspect the improvements and, if all are in
conformance with the requirements, will notify the Commission or Court in
writing and recommend the release of the relevant portion of the bond or other
instrument used as the guarantee of performance.
      (6)   The Fiscal Court shall not accept any road and/or street for county
maintenance unless and until the following is completed.
         (a)   Prior to submission to the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning
Commission of the Final Plat relative to a subdivision, the developer or
subdivider has fully and completely reimbursed the Court for any and all fees
and costs paid to the selected engineer or engineering firm charged with the
plat review.
         (b)   Prior to the acceptance by the Fiscal Court of maintenance of
any road and/or street, the developer or subdivider has fully and completely
reimbursed the Court for any and all fees and costs paid to the selected
engineer or engineering firm charged with construction inspection. It is the
intent of these regulations that all costs incurred by the Court for the
engineering or engineering firm shall be the responsibility of the developer
and/or subdivider and reimbursement shall be a condition for approval of the
final plat.
            1.   The Fiscal Court and/or its authorized agents may require that
the one-inch bituminous surface course not be applied to any or selected
subdivision streets and/or roads until after completion of at least 75% of the
subdivision buildings. The Fiscal Court may, at its option, accept streets and/
or roads prior to the application of the surface course provided that the
Planning Commission or the Court retains a maintenance and performance
guarantee to ensure that the existing road is properly maintained, and to
ensure that the road is completed once the subdivision is fully developed.
               2.   The developer shall be responsible for the maintenance and
repair of the improvements installed. The developer shall be responsible for
any damage done to the improvements by construction traffic, local traffic or
by any other means and shall ensure the accessibility to all occupied lots
until final acceptance for maintenance by the county. Upon completion of work
and before public acceptance, the developer shall clean up all ground occupied
or affected in connection with the work. Failure to maintain or repair
improvements may result in withholding approval of subsequent units of the
subdivision or the billing of the developer for such service performed by the
county. Payment shall be guaranteed by the performance bond or other instrument
used as the guarantee.
      (3)   An amount of 50% of the final cost of streets, gutters and curbs
shall be retained from the original instrument of construction guarantee, or a
new instrument posted, at the developer’s or subdivider’s option, with the
Fiscal Court at the time of public acceptance of the street(s) for two years to
guarantee the quality of construction of the street, gutters and curbs.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No plat or plan of a subdivision of land located within the
jurisdiction of the Planning Commission shall be admitted to the records of the
county or received or recorded by the County Clerk until said plat has received
final approval in writing by the Planning Commission as provided in the KRS
100.277. Admission to the records shall not be construed as approval.
   (B)   No board, public officer or authority shall accept, lay out, improve
or authorize utilities to be laid in any street within the territory for which
the Planning Commission has adopted subdivision regulations unless the street
has been approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.22 AMENDMENT.
   Any amendment to these subdivision regulations shall occur at a regularly
scheduled or specially called Planning Commission meeting and shall require a
majority vote of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.23 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These subdivision regulations shall take effect and be in force immediately
upon their adoption and publication of a notice of such adoption.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.35 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the basic and minimum
design standards which will be required for lots, streets and other physical
elements in the subdivisions.
   (B)   These standards shall be the minimum which shall be observed by
developers.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.36 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All streets which are designed primarily for the movement of vehicular
traffic shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   Classification of streets and required pavements.
      (1)   Five basic street classifications shall be observed by developers:
 
Arterial streets, separated pavements, each 22 feet
Collector streets (commercial/industrial)   26 feet
Collector streets (rural/residential)       22 feet*
Local streets (commercial)                  24 feet
Local streets (rural/residential)           22 feet
*Where it is determined that a turn lane(s) is necessary by state or local
officials, a minimum of 9 feet of pavement shall be provided for each turn
lane, in addition to the travel lanes
 
      (2)   All streets shall have the following roadway construction
standards.
         (a)   The alignment on all streets should have a centerline run,
profile taken and grade figured to construct finished pavement and to establish
drainage facilities.
         (b)   Tangent section of roadway shall have roadway crown of three-
sixteenths per foot of roadway and curved sections of roadway to have super
elevation in roadway not to exceed 0.01 per foot, depending on length,
sharpness of curve and traffic flow. This super elevation to be transitioned
from tangent sections to curved section and vice versa, with runoff of curve
being of such distance as not to create any water pockets or bumps in roadway.
These requirements of constructing roadway to be made in each phase of
construction, sub-grade base and finished surface.
         (c)   The roadway sub-grade should be stripped of all debris, sod,
grass, roots and the like. Sub-grade to be finished with suitable materials,
soil free of foreign matter, to finished sub-grade elevation, then compacted
with rollers and water if needed, to establish suitable sub-grade, prior to
adding any base material.
         (d)   Base material should consist of a packed base consisting of
eight inches of dense grade rock. This material should be laid in two equal
layers and compacted with at least one 10-ton roller until density of desired
percentage is reached for each layer. Water should be added to dense grade
aggregate at approximately 7% at point of delivery and additional water added
at roadway if so needed for smooth compacted sub-grade. Sub-grade finished
elevation should be uniformly maintained as to grade alignment for desired
thickness over entire roadway. Results of a compaction test shall be submitted
the County Road Supervisor and County Judge/Executive for review and approval
         (e)   Roadway surface to be Class I surface made according to State
Highway Department specifications at a minimum two-inch bituminous base and a
one-inch surface to comply with county road ordinance thickness. Surface to be
laid in two equal widths of roadway to maintain crown in center of roadway.
         (f)   The entrance pipe in private entrances to be 15-inch minimum,
cross drain or storm sewer to be a minimum of 18 inches. Drainage calculations
may be required where roadways/entrances cross natural area drainageways. Such
calculations shall be provided by a licensed engineer and shall show flow and
drain pipe sizes for specific conditions.
         (g)   Typical section of roadway should consist of a minimum of 11-
foot pavement, three- foot shoulders, two-foot ditch, and four-foot concrete
sidewalks built on 3:1 slope each side of centerline. Back slope of ditch in
cut section should be so shaped to blend into existing grade or 4:1 slope when
practical.
   (B)   Miscellaneous street standards. The following standards shall apply to
miscellaneous street design elements.
      (1)   Relation to topography. Streets shall be logically related to the
topography so as to produce the most usable and properly situated lots, provide
the most drainage for storm water and proper grades.
      (2)   Street continuity. Streets in proposed subdivisions shall generally
provide for the continuation of existing or dedicated streets in adjoining or
nearby tracts, and provide for connection to adjoining unsubdivided tracts,
especially those which would otherwise be landlocked.
      (3)   Street names. Streets which are obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall generally bear the names of the existing streets. Street
names shall not duplicate or closely approximate the names of existing streets
in the county. Verify street naming with 911 personnel.
      (4)   Partial subdivision. Where the plan to be submitted includes only a
part of the tract owned or intended for development by the developer, a sketch
plan of the proposed street system for the unsubdivided portion shall be
prepared by the developer and submitted to the Planning Commission.
      (5)   Planning for conflicting traffic or land use. Whenever the proposed
subdivision contains or is adjacent to a railroad right-of-way, arterial street
right-of-way, other major rights-of-way or conflicting changes in land uses,
the Planning Commission may require marginal access streets, reverse frontage
lots, lots with rear service alleys, lots with additional depth, or other such
treatment as may be necessary for protection of abutting properties and afford
separation of conflicting types of traffic or land use.
      (6)   Cul-de-sacs. Shall not be longer than 500 feet including the
turnaround which shall be provided at the closed end with a right-of-way radius
of 50 feet and a transition curve radius of 75 feet for connecting the
turnaround with the rest of the street. Longer cul-de-sacs may be permitted
because of unusual topographic or other conditions. Temporary turnarounds may
be required at the end of stub streets as long as it is retained within the
street right-of-way. If temporary turn-arounds are approved for stub streets
intended for future extension in conjunction with future adjacent development,
each developer shall extend the roadway to the property line within the
approved easement.
      (7)   Oversize improvements. Whenever street rights-of-way or other
improvements are required in excess of what is needed to meet the demands of
the subdivision plat being considered, the Commission should require dedication
or improvement costs of the developer only to the extent of what his or her
subdivision needs, and then encourage the other appropriate authorities to
finance the acquisition or cost of the additional improvements.
      (8)   Cuts. In cuts, all tree stumps, boulders, organic material, soft
clay, spongy material and other objectionable materials shall be removed to a
depth of at least two feet below the graded surface. Rock, when encountered,
shall be scarified to a depth of at least 12 inches below the grade surface.
      (9)   Fills. In fills, all tree stumps, boulders, organic material, soft
clay, spongy material and other objectionable material shall be removed to a
depth of at least two feet below the natural ground surface. This objectionable
matter as well as similar matter from cuts shall be removed from the right-of-
way area and disposed of in such a manner that it will not become incorporated
in fills or hinder proper operation of the drainage system.
   (C)   Street rights-of-way and grades. Street rights-of-way and grades shall
be as follows:
Street Classification Min. R.O.W.* Min. Grade
                      Max. Grade**
Street Classification Min. R.O.W.* Min. Grade
                      Max. Grade**
Arterials             80'          4%
                     7%
Collectors            60'          4%
                     10%
Local (minor)         50'          5%
                     10%
*Additional right-of-way may be required whenever a proposed subdivision
abuts or contains an existing road of inadequate width, or to provide parking
space in high density residential districts or nonresidential areas, or to
provide drainage easements where streets parallel streams or drainage areas,
or for other reasons to promote public safety and convenience.
**The Commission may increase these maximum grades whenever they feel special
topographic or other conditions justifies such increase.
 
   (D)   Street alignment. The minimum horizontal and vertical alignment on all
streets shall be as determined by accepted engineering practice and/or as
follows:
Street         *Horizontal Curve **Stop Sight Distance Crest Curves
Classification Radius Sag Curves                       ***Vertical Curves
Street          *Horizontal Curve **Stop Sight Distance Crest Curves
Classification  Radius Sag Curves                       ***Vertical Curves
Alleys          100'              NA                    NA
               NA
Arterials       53'               275'                  L-50A
               L=50A
Collectors      500'              175'                  L=21A; 100' min.
               L=30A; 125'min.
Cul-de-sac      50'               90'                   L=7A; 75' min.
               L=12A; 100' min.
Local (minor)   250'              90'                   L=7A; 75' min.
               L=12A; 100' min.
Marginal access 150'              90'                   L=7A; 75' min.
               L=12A; 100' min.
*Whenever street centerlines are deflected in excess of one degree,
connection shall be made by horizontal curves with a minimum radius at the
centerline as noted (a 50 mph design speed was assumed for expressways,
and 40 mph for arterials — based on AASHO 1957 policy).
**A minimum safe stopping sight distance, measured from driver’s eye level
of four and one-half feet above road surface along centerline of driver’s
path to top of object four inches high above road surface, shall be
provided as noted in “A Policy on Arterial Highways in Urban Areas,”
AASHO, 1957.
***All changes in street grades, having an algebraic difference exceeding
0.5%, shall be connected by vertical curves of a minimum length as noted.
In the formula L = minimum length of vertical curve; A = algebraic
difference in grades in percent; 100' minimum means minimum acceptable
length of curve.
 
   (E)   Street intersections. The following standards shall be the minimum for
intersection designs.
      (1)   Number of approaches. Intersections involving more than four basic
street legs or approaches shall be prohibited. Merging lanes, deceleration
lanes, “Y” intersections and the like, are not included in this prohibition,
but are considered as being parts of one street leg or approach.
      (2)   Angle of street intersection. For a tangent distance of at least
100 feet, measured from the intersection of right-of-way lines, all streets
shall intersect at an angle of 90 degrees, where practical, but in no case
shall be less than 75 degrees.
      (3)   Intersection offset. Streets entering opposite sides of another
shall be laid out either directly opposite one another or with a minimum for
minor and collector streets, consideration should be given to “T” intersections
as opposed to four-way intersections.
      (4)   Intersection spacing. All minor streets intersecting with, and
entering the same side of, arterial and collector streets shall be located at
least 800 feet apart, measured between centerlines, except that in plans for
entire neighborhoods such intersections may be placed at closer intervals. All
minor streets intersecting with, and entering the same side of minor streets
shall be located at least 200 feet apart, measured between centerlines. Access
points from marginal access streets onto arterials and collectors also shall
observe the 800-foot separation. When through streets pass through marginal
streets and enter a collector or arterial, the marginal access road may be
required to be bowed outward at the intersection in order to provide storage
space of 400 feet or more to the arterials or collector streets.
      (5)   Excessive grades at intersections. Where the grade of any street at
the approach to an intersection exceeds 3%, a leveling for a distance of 50
feet from the intersection of street centerlines shall occur. Vertical curves
shall then be used to connect the intersecting grades.
      (6)   Intersection sight triangle for crossing. At all intersections,
sight triangles shall be provided which will permit vehicles on the designated
“Stop” street to safely cross, or turn into, the through street The sight
triangles shall be formed by measuring along, and from the intersection of, the
street centerlines, and connecting the measured points. The resulting triangles
must lie wholly within the street rights-of-way. The following distances shall
be measured along the centerlines:
 
Street Classifications   Distance Along Through Distance Along Stop Streets
                         Streets
All minors, except below 250'                   25'
Alleys                   NA                     NA
Arterials                625'                   35'
Collectors               500'                   30'
Cul-de-sacs              200'                   25'
Marginal access          200'                   25'
 
      (7)   Minimum property line radii. For street intersections, the minimum
radius at property line shall be 20 feet for all streets, unless sound
engineering practice dictates otherwise.
   (F)   Street extensions.
      (1)   The street layout of the proposed subdivision shall provide for the
continuation or projection of streets already existing in areas adjacent to the
area being subdivided unless the Planning Commission deems such continuation or
extension undesirable for specific reasons of topography or design. The
responsibility for these extensions remains with the developer of the dedicated
right-of-way filed with his or her plat. At such time that the development
right-of-way and street is accepted by the county, the developer shall be
absolved from further responsibility of that road and right-of-way.
      (2)   Where, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, it is desirable
to provide street access to adjoining properties, proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundaries of such properties. Where the Planning
Commission deems it necessary, such dead-end streets shall be provided with a
temporary turn-around having a radius of at least 50 feet.
      (3)   The street system for the proposed subdivision shall provide for
extending existing streets at the same or greater width, but in no case shall a
street extension be of less width than the minimum width required in these
regulations for a street in its category.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.37 BLOCK DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following shall be the required standards to be observed for the design
of blocks.
   (A)   Residential block length. In general, intersecting streets which
determine block length shall be provided at such intervals as necessary and to
meet existing street patterns, topography and requirements for safe and
convenient vehicular and pedestrian circulation. Blocks, however, normally
shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length, nor be less than 40 feet in length.
   (B)   Residential block width. The width of blocks shall be sufficient,
generally, to allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth.
   (C)   Pedestrian mid-block sidewalks. Pedestrian mid-block sidewalks may be
required within blocks where necessary to improve pedestrian circulation by
providing more convenient access to schools, shopping and the like than is
possible with the sidewalks within the street right-of-way. Such crosswalks
shall have a right-of-way width of at least ten feet.
   (D)   Sidewalks. For all developments consisting of ten or more houses, the
subdivider shall build Portland cement concrete sidewalks on both sides of the
street which shall be four feet wide and four inches thick. Sidewalk
construction shall be performed by the developers as part of the required
improvements and shall be completed prior to final plat approval or shall be
bonded. This requirement may be waived by the Planning Commission for
developments in which all lots are greater than two acres and in which no road
frontage is less than 250 feet. Alternatively, if all building lines are set at
least 100 feet from the right-of-way, the sidewalk requirement may also be
waived by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   In conventional developments, sidewalks shall be placed in the
right-of-way, parallel to the street, unless an exception is permitted to
preserve topographical or natural features or to provide visual interest.
Alternate paved pedestrian systems located away from the road system may be
appropriate in some types of planned developments allowing links between
dwelling units, streets and recreation areas. Additionally, the Planning
Commission may require the provision of a pedestrian way access easement to
adjacent subdivisions or the Cedar Creek Lake buffer area if appropriate to a
development. Such access easement shall be a minimum of ten feet and may be
unpaved. Provisions for maintenance of the easement should be noted on the
plat.
      (2)   All commercial development shall have sidewalks provided by the
developer. Such sidewalks shall be of portland cement concrete and shall be
eight feet wide and four inches thick.
   (E)   Nonresidential blocks. Blocks intended for nonresidential uses shall
be of such length, width and other design as the Commission finds necessary for
the prospective use, including adequate provisions for off-street parking,
loading and unloading of trucked goods, and limitation and control of vehicular
access points to adjacent streets.
   (F)   Infill. Development of blocks of land between existing development
shall provide harmonious infill of these areas.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.38 LOT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following shall be required standards to be observed for the design of
lots in a subdivision.
   (A)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential uses shall be of sufficient
width to permit compliance with the required minimum building setback line on
all property lines which abut upon streets. In order to comply with the
additional width requirements and continue the same size homes as are on
adjoining lots, corner lots shall be increased to whatever width is necessary.
   (B)   Lot lines. Side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street
centerlines, and radial to curved street centerlines. Rear lot lines should
consist of straight lines with a minimum number of deflections. Front lot lines
shall front on a public street.
   (C)   Lot shape. Excessive depth in relation to width shall be avoided with
a proportion of two and one-half to one normally being considered as a
desirable maximum, for lot widths of 60 feet or greater. Pointed or very
irregular shaped lots shall be avoided where possible. Additional depth may be
required on lots which back up to railroads, major streets or other conflicting
land uses.
   (D)   Access. All lots shall abut a public street in accordance with the
minimum lot frontage specified for that zone in the zoning ordinance (
Chapter 154). If no other frontage requirement exists, a minimum of 50 feet of
road frontage shall be required. All lots shall have readily apparent physical
means of pedestrian and vehicular access from the lot onto the street (paved
sidewalks and driveways). Each lot shall be permitted one vehicular entrance
except as permitted by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage lots shall be prohibited except
where employed to prevent excessive vehicular driveway access to streets, or to
separate residential areas from other areas of conflicting land or traffic use.
Rear access to an alley shall not be considered double frontage.
   (F)   Land remnants. If remnants of land exist after subdividing, and have
no apparent future use which can be properly controlled, they shall be
incorporated into the lots of the proposed lotting scheme.
   (G)   Lot area, width and minimum building setback line. Lots for
residential or nonresidential use shall meet the minimum standards as required
by the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.39 EASEMENT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following shall be the required standards to be observed for the design
of easements in a subdivision.
   (A)   Utilities. An easement for utilities, at least ten feet wide, shall be
required along each side of a rear or side property line, or 20 feet wide
across lots, wherever necessary to form a continuous right-of-way, at least 20
feet in width. Easements of greater width may be required along lot lines or
across lots wherever necessary for the extension of water or sewer lines or
other utilities. These easements are subject to the review, amendment and
approval of the appropriate utility companies.
   (B)   Slope easement for grading right-of-way. Whenever a proposed
subdivision affects an existing or proposed road in such a way that present or
future grading of such road’s full right-of-way width will necessitate cuts and
fills in adjoining property, a slope easement on such adjoining property shall
be required.
   (C)   Stormwater drainage easement or right-of-way. See §
153.41 for stormwater management and sedimentation/erosion control regulations
and requirements. Wherever a subdivision is required to have a drainage
easement or a drainage right-of-way; it shall be provided. This drainage right-
of-way or easement shall have adequate width for workmen, with necessary
equipment, to install, maintain or repair drainage facilities. When required
for creeks or streams, drainage calculations may be required to ensure proper
draining of such easements. Such drainage easement or right-of-way shall be
maintained by a homeowner’s association duly formed and charged with such
responsibly. Such association shall require dues adequate to provide required
maintenance.
   (D)   Stream easements. If the property being subdivided is traversed by a
blue line stream, a 75-foot conservation easement on either side of the
centerline of the stream shall be provided. No cut, fill or building
construction shall occur within the 100-year floodplain.
   (E)   Connection to existing easements. Where necessary, utility and
drainage easements shall connect with easements already established in
adjoining properties.
   (F)   Landscape easement. Landscape easements shall be incorporated into
development design as part of existing easements or separate easements as may
be required to comply with development standards (i.e., separate landscape
easement between different adjoining zoning classifications).
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.40 COMMUNITY FACILITIES DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following shall be the required standards to be observed for the design
and provision of community facilities and related elements.
   (A)   Assessing needs for community facilities. In reviewing subdivision
plats, the Planning Commission shall consider the adequacy of existing or
proposed community facilities which must serve the additional population to be
housed in the proposed subdivision. Where appropriate, subdividers shall also
give earnest consideration to dedicating or reserving land for those facilities
which will be needed by the people who buy homes in his or her subdivision,
such as public buildings, recreational areas and shopping centers.
   (B)   Adequacy of such areas. Areas provided or reserved for such community
facilities should be adequate for building sites, landscaping and off-street
parking as appropriate to the proposed use. Prior to preparation of final
plans, subdividers of large tracts should review with the Planning Commission
the minimum standards for various community facilities applicable to the
proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Site acquisition. Where master plans or implementation devices adopted
by the Commission have proposed that the location of parks, schools or other
public uses be within the proposed subdivision, or where such sites appear
desirable, the Commission may require their reservation for acquisition by
public agencies for an 18-month time period.
   (D)   Preservation of existing physical assets. Existing features which are
existing assets to the community and subdivision area shall be preserved as
much as possible through harmonious design of the subdivision. Example of such
features are farm fences of stone or wood, groupings of trees, isolated but
outstanding trees, watercourses, vacant historical buildings and similar
irreplaceable physical assets.
   (E)   Development of hazardous open areas. Whenever a subdivision contains
land which is, or appears to be, subject to flooding, subsidence or other
hazards injurious to the health and safety of potential users; and when such
hazards cannot be eliminated or adequate safeguards provided to protect the
health and safety of potential users, the Commission may declare such land to
be unsuitable for subdivision and disapprove such plans or portions thereof.
   (F)   Utility availability.
      (1)   Based on the number of housing units, residential subdivisions
shall be connected to existing public water and sewerage systems, if public
service is available within the following distance of any portion of the parent
tract:
 
Size of Development Distance
1-2 units           400 feet
3-4 units           800 feet
5-10 units          1,000 feet
10-20 units         1/2 mile
over 20 units       1 mile
 
      (2)   In areas where property proposed to be subdivided is more than one-
mile from a public water supply, if the water or sewer district or the city
providing water or sewer service to the area has plans within a five-year
period to provide service to the area, the Planning Commission, may, after
consultation with the service provider, require the installation of a capped
system, or dry lines, within the road right-of-way.
      (3)   If water service is not available within the distances noted above,
the minimum lot size shall be increased to five acres and 250 feet of road
frontage.
      (4)   If sewer service is not available within the distances noted above,
all on-site sewage disposal systems shall be approved by the County Health
Department and shall, at a minimum, comply with lot sizes and dimensional
requirements of the zoning ordinance.
      (5)   Any commercial development requiring over 400 gallons of water per
day shall not be permitted if public water supply is not available to the
property.
      (6)   Where water lines are capable of providing firefighting water
pressure, fire hydrants shall be provided as recommended by the County Fire
Chief.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.41 SOIL EROSION/SEDIMENT CONTROL/STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Finding of fact. Significant erosion results from rainfall and runoff
over unprotected soil. Erosion is increased by intense rainfalls, long slopes,
steep slopes and lack of adequate vegetative cover. These conditions are in
part caused by or aggravated by improper construction, grading or excavation
which results in removal of natural ground cover without taking appropriate
steps to control erosion problems.
      (1)   All land use activities occurring within the county must make every
effort to protect the water quality and quantity of the county. All
agricultural activities must conform with individually adopted state mandated
Agricultural Water Quality Management Plans. Assistance in the development of
these plans can be obtained from the County Natural Resources and Conservation
District. Additionally, all forestry activities must comply with the
requirements of the Kentucky Forest Practice Guidelines for Water Quality
Management.
      (2)   All development activities, whether involving a minor or major
subdivision plat, or a development plan, shall comply with the recommendations
of the Kentucky Best Management Practices for Construction Activity. Detailed
stormwater management plans, erosions control plans and/or grading permits
shall be required as noted in division (B) below.
   (B)   Purposes and objectives. The intent of this section is to:
      (1)   Control stormwater quantity and quality in the county;
      (2)   Reduce soil erosion in the county; and
      (3)   Provide procedures for submission, review and approval of erosion
control plans to be submitted prior to soil disturbance.
   (C)   Scope of coverage. The following are included within the scope of this
chapter:
      (1)   Stormwater management plans. Stormwater management plans are
required in the following circumstances:
         (a)   Stormwater management plans shall be required for all major
subdivision plats and/or development plans. Developments involving five acres
or more within the Cedar Creek Lake Watershed shall submit stormwater plans to
the State Division of Water and shall submit a letter of approval from the
Division of Water to the Planning Commission with the plat approval request.
All others will be reviewed by the Resident Engineer;
         (b)   All stormwater management plans must include the determination
of two parameters: runoff peak rate of discharge and runoff volume. Peak rate
of discharge calculations should be used to determine the configurations and
sizes of pipes, channels and other routing or flow control structures. Runoff
volume calculations shall be used to determine the necessity for and sizing of
detention and retention facilities.
            1.   Peak rate of runoff for areas up to one-half of a square mile
shall be calculated by the rational method or derivatives. The analysis shall
also consider the procedure outlined in the NRCS Method (Technical Release No.
55), Urban Hydrology for Small Watersheds.
            2.   Runoff volume shall be calculated utilizing the NRCS method
for drainage areas of less than five square miles. For drainage areas of less
than five acres, the Rational Method triangular hydrography approximation may
be used as an alternative.
            3.   Where detention facilities are necessary, they shall be
designed to accommodate storms generated by calculations which shall include
one-hour/two-year, one-hour/ten-year, 24-hour/25-year and one-hour/100-year
storms. Wherever possible, all storm detention facilities shall be located
outside of the 100-year floodplain. Water quality as well as quantity
provisions shall be considered in the design of the detention facilities. Best
management practices shall be incorporated into the design of all stormwater
facilities.
            4.   The post development total rate of runoff shall not exceed the
predevelopment rate of runoff. Any additional volume created by the development
shall be effectively detained in a stormwater facility that ensures the rate of
runoff does not exceed predevelopment rate.
         (c)   Provisions for the maintenance of all facilities and easements
shall be included in notes on the final plat.
      (2)   Erosion control plans. Erosion control plans are required in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   All persons submitting to the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek
Planning Commission major subdivision plats or development plans shall include
a note on the preliminary plat or development plan staring that: “No grading,
excavating, stripping, filling or other disturbance of the natural ground cover
shall take place prior to approval of an erosion control plan.” An erosion
control plan shall be submitted after a preliminary plat or development plan
has been approved.
         (b)   Any persons disturbing the natural ground cover in an area for
which there is an approved erosion control plan shall conform to the
requirements of such plan without exception.
      (3)   Grading permits. Grading permits shall be required in the following
circumstances: all persons doing any grading, stripping, excavating, filling or
otherwise disturbing the natural ground cover in an area for which no erosion
control plan has been approved, must obtain a grading permit prior to
commencing such work, unless exempted under division (C)(4) below. For any work
or developments not requiring a fully developed erosion control plan, a grading
plan addressing at a minimum the handling of topsoil and off-site runoff during
grading must be submitted in conjunction with the grading permit application.
      (4)   Exceptions. No grading permit or separate erosion control plan
shall be required for the following: (Each division of this section shall
constitute a separate, independent exception.)
         (a)   Finished grading and excavation below finished grade
            1.   For basements and footings of a single-family or duplex
residential structure authorized by a valid building permit;
            2.   For accessory structures related to single-family residences
or duplex structures authorized by a valid building permit;
            3.   For retaining walls 18 inches or less;
            4.   For swimming pools; or
            5.   For cemeteries for human or animal burial, provided the
disturbed material or fill is handled in such a manner as to conform to the
approved erosion control plan for the area or where no such erosion control
plan is in effect such work must be done in a manner which presents no
significant erosion hazard.
         (b)   An excavation or fill provided it meets all of the following:
            1.   Is less than four feet in vertical depth at its deepest point
as measured from the natural ground;
            2.   Does not result in a total quantity of more than 100 cubic
yards of material being removed from, deposited on or disturbed on any lot,
parcel or subdivision thereof;
            3.   Does not impair existing surface drainage, constitute a
potential erosion hazard, or act as a source of sedimentation to any adjacent
land or watercourse;
            4.   Has no final slopes steeper than one foot vertical in three
feet horizontal;
            5.   Has proper vegetative cover reestablished as soon as possible
on all disturbed areas; and
            6.   Has no fill placed on a surface having a slope steeper than
five feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
         (c)   Accepted agricultural land management practices such as plowing,
cultivation, construction of agricultural structures, ponds, waterways, nursery
operations, such as the removal and/or transplanting of cultivated sod, shrubs
and trees, tree cuttings at or above existing ground level, and logging
operations leaving the stump, ground cover and root mat intact. Non-
agricultural uses permitted in an Agricultural Zone are not excepted from the
requirements of soil erosion and sediment control.
         (d)   Grading, on existing developed lots or parcels, provided it
meets all of the following:
            1.   The aggregate area(s) affected, or stripped at any one time
does not exceed 8,000 square feet, and is not within a natural drainageway
(i.e., designated floodplain);
            2.   The grade change does not exceed 18 inches at any point and
does not alter the drainage pattern;
            3.   Proper vegetative cover is reestablished as soon as possible
on all disturbed areas; and
            4.   The grading does not involve a quantity of material in excess
of 100 cubic yards.
      (5)   Installation of systems and the like. Installation of approved
subsurface sewage treatment systems, lateral sewer lines, geothermal systems,
telephone lines, electricity lines, gas lines or other public service
facilities.
   (D)   Procedures and standards for stormwater management plans. Stormwater
calculations and management plans shall be submitted as a part of the
construction plans as detailed in §
153.19. No soil shall be disturbed either through cut or fill unless and until
all construction plans have been approved as well as all other requirements of
the soil erosions control and sedimentation provision of these regulations.
   (E)   Procedures and standards for approving soil erosion control plans and
for issuing grading permits.
      (1)   Administrative procedure. Applications for approval of erosion
control plans and grading permits shall be submitted to the Administrative
Officer of the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission as specified in
this division (E). The application shall contain the applicant’s name and
address and other relevant information requested on the application forms. It
shall also contain a proposed erosion control plan containing the information
required by division (E)(2) below. The application must be signed by the owner
of the property or an authorized agent, and the erosion control plans must be
certified by a registered professional engineer or licensed landscape architect
if submitted in association with a major subdivision plat or development plan.
         (a)   Request for approval of erosion control plans associated with a
major subdivision or development plan. All erosion control plans shall be
reviewed by the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission which shall
approve or disapprove the erosion control plan as a part of the construction
plans submitted for all major subdivision plats or development plans under the
standards set by this chapter. Such an approved erosion control plan shall have
the same status and effect as a grading permit and a separate grading permit
shall not be required. Upon completion of the work required under an approved
erosion control plan, the Administrative/Enforcement Officer shall certify on
such plan that the work has been completed.
         (b)   Application for approval of grading permit. Applications for
approval of grading permits shall be filed with the Administrative Officer. The
Administrative Officer shall review such plans and a grading permit shall be
issued or denied by the Administrative Officer. Review of the decision of the
Administrative Officer is available through the Board of Adjustment. Upon
completion of the work required under an approved grading permit, the
Enforcement Officer shall certify on the permit that the work has been
satisfactorily completed.
         (c)   Extension of time. Every approved erosion control plan or
grading permit shall expire six months from the issuance of a grading permit or
approval of an erosion control plan. If work is not completed within the terms
of the permit, or work is not commenced within six months after issuance, the
permit holder may request an extension. The Administrative Officer may extend
the deadlines contained in the plan or permit respectively upon a showing by
the applicant:
            1.   There is sufficient justification for the delay;
            2.   delay will not create a new erosion hazard or permit an
existing one to continue; and
            3.   A new completion date has been set.
      (2)   Contents of the soil erosion plan. For purposes of obtaining a
grading permit or for coordination with a major subdivision plat or development
plan, an erosion control plan containing the following information must be
submitted unless such information is available to the Administrative Officer in
an acceptable form. This information must be supplied for the entire tract of
land whether or not the property will be developed in stages. If the
development occurs in stages the erosion control plan shall be approved as a
whole; however, after construction has begun on the initial stage the
Administrative Officer or the Enforcement Officer must inspect the site prior
to granting approval for the issuance of building permits for any other stage
of construction.
         (a)   The erosion control plan shall be drawn at a scale of one inch
equals 100 feet (or less) indicating:
            1.   The site location as well as the adjacent properties; and
            2.   Identification of any structure or natural feature on the land
adjacent to the site and within 250 feet, which has a significant impact on
drainage or siltation controls.
         (b)   Property boundary bearings and distances for the site on which
the work is to be performed;
         (c)   A soil survey or a description of the main soil types (available
from the County Conservation District);
         (d)   The anticipated time of exposure of each area prior to the
completion of effective erosion and sediment control measures;
         (e)   Existing topography at contour intervals not exceeding five
feet;
         (f)   Proposed topography at contour intervals not exceeding five
feet;
         (g)   Elevation, dimension, location, extent and the slope of all
proposed grading;
         (h)   Location and identification of all site features (either human-
made or natural) which have a significant impact on drainage or siltation
controls;
         (i)   Plans and specifications for all drainage provisions, retaining
walls, cribbing, planting, anti-erosion devices or other protective devices
(whether temporary or permanent) to be constructed in connection with, or as a
part of the proposed work, together with a map showing the drainage area of
land tributary to the site and a statement explaining the amount of estimated
runoff used to determine the design characteristics of any drainage device.
Upstream drainage must be considered and explained if any adverse effect is
possible;
         (j)   Plans for removal, recontouring or other final disposition of
sediment basins or other structural improvements or devices included in the
plan; and
         (k)   If a sedimentation basin is required, it should be designed by a
registered engineer.
      (3)   Factors which shall be considered in reviewing applications for
erosion control plans and/or grading permits.
         (a)   The development should relate to the specific site conditions.
         (b)   The plan should keep land grading and land disturbance to a
minimum under the circumstances.
         (c)   Both surface and storm water drainage systems should be
integrated to accommodate the increased runoff incurred during land grading.
         (d)   To prevent soil erosion, existing temporary and future
protective vegetative cover should be emphasized.
         (e)   The plan shall coordinate grading operation and sediment control
measures so as to minimize land exposure to erosion.
         (f)   Sediment basins below high sediment producing areas should be
planned, installed and maintained as safety devices to catch and trap excessive
sediment from the development site.
         (g)   The plan should utilize available technology to keep soil
erosion to a minimum level.
         (h)   Retaining walls shall be planned, installed and maintained where
slope is steeper than one foot vertical in two-foot horizontal on excavated
slopes, cuts or fills greater than four-foot vertical.
         (i)   Fill areas shall be engineered to be appropriate for intended
use. Plan should include method for placement of large material such as
concrete slabs or rock boulders with dimension greater than two feet in any
direction. Method of placement should be designed to prevent voids in fill
which may cause shifting, sliding or settling of material.
   (F)   Failure to complete work or comply with terms of plan. In the event of
failure to complete the work or failure to comply with all the requirements,
conditions and terms of the permit or plan, the Administrative Officer or
Enforcement Officer may order stoppage of work. The Planning Commission may
instruct the Administrative Officer to refuse to issue any additional building
permits and/or it may order work authorized by plan or permit to be completed.
   (G)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Violations. Whenever, by the provisions of these regulations, the
performance of any act is required, or the performance of any act is
prohibited, a failure to comply with such provisions shall constitute a
violation of these regulations.
      (2)   Correction of violations. All violations shall be corrected within
a time period as specified by written notice issued by the Administrative
Officer or Enforcement Officer, but in no case shall such period be less than
24 hours. The time period determination shall be at the discretion of the
Administrative Officer or the Enforcement Officer and dependent upon weather
and soil conditions, and the type and scope of off-site damages being induced
by the violation, but in no case shall the time period impose unrealistic
requirements under prevailing weather and working site soil conditions. If the
violation is not corrected as specified in the written notice, the
Administrative Officer or Enforcement Officer may issue an order to the
violator to cease all work; they may refuse to issue any additional building
permits. The Planning Commission may initiate prosecution in District Court or
initiate civil compliance procedures.
      (3)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation who violates, neglects,
omits or refuses to comply with any provision of this chapter, or any permit or
exceptions granted hereunder, or any lawful requirement of the Lincoln County/
Cedar Creek Planning Commission, shall be fined on conviction in accordance
with §
153.99. Each day that a violation is maintained shall be deemed a separate
offense. The time of violation shall be measured from the time written notice
to correct is given to the permittee. The imposition of any penalty shall not
exempt the offender from compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
   (H)   Definitions related to stormwater/erosion control/sedimentation. For
the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EROSION. The process by which the ground surface is worn away by the
action of wind or water.
      EXCAVATION or CUT. Any act by which soil or rock is cut into, dug,
quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced or relocated, and shall include the
conditions resulting therefrom.
      FILL. A deposit of soil, rock, concrete or asphalt to replace or
supplement the original soil or subsoil.
      GRADING. Any stripping, excavating, filling, stockpiling of soil or any
combination thereof, and shall include the land in its excavated or filled
condition.
      NATURAL FEATURES. Shall include but not be limited to, existing
watercourses, soils, vegetation (including grasses, shrubs, legumes and the
like) and tree stands having trees five inches or greater in diameter or 15
feet or greater in height, whichever is less.
      NATURAL GROUND SURFACE. Any ground surface in its original state before
any grading, excavation or filling, and shall be established by the
Administrative Officer or Enforcement Officer when there is any question of its
location.
      SEDIMENT. Any solid material, both mineral and organic that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site or origin by
air, water or gravity as a product of erosion.
      SLOPE. Any inclined, exposed surface of a fill, excavation or natural
terrain.
      SOIL. All earth material of whatever origin that overlies bedrock, and
may include the decomposed zone of bedrock which can be readily excavated by
mechanical equipment.
      STRIPPING. Any activity which removes or significantly disturbs the
vegetative surface cover including clearing and grubbing operations.
   (I)   Grading permit. A grading permit shall be subject to the same
dimensional limitations and fee structure as a building permit.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.42 SUITABILITY OF THE LAND FOR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Land determined to be unsuitable. If the Planning Commission finds
that land proposed to be subdivided is unsuitable for subdivision development
due to flooding, bad drainage, steep slopes, rock formations and other such
conditions as may increase the danger of health, life or property or aggravate
erosion or flood hazards; and, if from adequate investigations, conducted by
all the public agencies concerned, it has been determined that in the best
interest of the public the land should not be platted and developed for the
purpose proposed, the Planning Commission shall not approve the land for
subdivision unless adequate methods are formulated by the subdivider for
meeting the problems that will be created by the subdivision and development of
the land.
   (B)   Prematurity clause. The Planning Commission may refuse to approve what
it considers to be scattered or premature subdivision of land which would
involve danger or injury to the public health, safety, welfare or prosperity by
reason of lack of adequate water supply, schools, proper drainage, good roads
and transportation facilities, or other public services, or which would
necessitate an excessive expenditure of public funds for the supply of such
services (such as undue maintenance costs for adequate roads).
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.43 LANDSCAPING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Landscaping shall be provided as part of site plan and subdivision
design. It shall be conceived in a total pattern throughout the site,
integrating the various elements of site design, preserving and enhancing the
particular identity of the site, and creating a pleasing site character.
      (2)   Landscaping may include plant materials such as trees, shrubs,
ground covers, perennials and annuals, and other materials such as rocks,
water, sculpture, art, walls, fences, paving materials and street furniture.
The use of native plant materials is strongly encouraged. The Planning
Commission reserves the right to prohibit inappropriate plantings.
      (3)   The plan shall identify existing and proposed trees, shrubs and
ground covers; natural features such as rock outcroppings; and other
landscaping elements. The plan shall show where they are or will be located and
planting and/or construction details. Where existing plantings are to be
retained, the applicant shall include in the plans proposed methods of
protecting them during construction.
   (B)   Site protection and general planting requirements.
      (1)   Topsoil preservation. Topsoil moved during the course of
construction shall be redistributed on all regraded surfaces so as to provide
an even cover to all disturbed areas of the development and shall be stabilized
by seeding or planting.
      (2)   Removal of debris. All stumps and other tree parts, litter, brush,
weeds, excess or scrap building materials or other debris shall be removed from
the site and disposed of in accordance with the law. No tree stumps, or
portions of tree trunks or limbs shall be buried anywhere in the development.
All dead or dying trees, standing or fallen, shall be removed from the site. If
trees and limbs are reduced to chips, they may be used as mulch in landscaped
areas, subject to approval by the Municipal Engineer.
      (3)   Protection of existing plantings. Maximum effort should be made to
save significant trees.
      (4)   Slope plantings. Landscaping of all cuts and fills and/or terraces
shall be sufficient to prevent erosion, and all roadway slopes steeper than one
foot vertically to three feet horizontally shall be planted with ground cover
appropriate for the purpose and for soil conditions, water availability and
environment.
      (5)   Plant specifications. Deciduous trees shall have at least a two-
inch caliper at planting. Size of evergreens and shrubs shall be allowed to
vary depending on setting and type of shrub. Only nursery-grown plant materials
shall be acceptable, and all trees, shrubs and ground covers shall be planted
according to accepted horticultural standards. Dead and dying plants shall be
replaced by the developer during the following planting season.
      (6)   Plant species. The plant species selected should be hardy for the
central Kentucky area and appropriate in terms of function and size. Native
plant species are strongly encouraged.
   (C)   Buffering.
      (1)   Function and materials. Buffering shall provide a year-round visual
screen in order to minimize adverse impacts between varying land uses and
zones. It may consist of fencing, evergreens, berms, rocks, boulders, mounds or
combinations thereof to achieve the same objectives
      (2)   When required. Every development shall provide sufficient buffering
when topographical or other barriers do not provide reasonable screening and
when the Planning Commission determines that there is a need: to shield
neighboring properties from any adverse external effects of a development; or
to shield the development from negative impacts of adjacent uses such as
streets or railroads. Single family residential developments are not typically
required to provide buffering; however, higher density residential, commercial,
industrial and recreational/resort development shall be required to buffer. In
these types of developments, when building design and siting do not provide
privacy, the Planning Commission shall require landscaping, fences or walls to
screen dwelling units for privacy. Buffers shall be measured from side and rear
property lines, excluding driveways.
      (3)   Amount required.
         (a)   Where more intensive land uses abut less-intensive uses, a
buffer strip 15 feet in width shall be required. Any proposed or required
vegetative buffer shall be a minimum of 15 feet in width.
         (b)   Parking lots, garbage collection and utility areas, and loading
and unloading areas should be screened around their perimeters by a buffer
strip a minimum of five feet wide.
      (4)   Design. Arrangement of plantings in buffers shall provide maximum
protection to adjacent properties and avoid damage to existing plant material.
      (5)   Planting specifications. Plant materials shall be sufficiently
large and planted in such a fashion that a year-round screen at least eight
feet in height shall be produced within three growing seasons. All plantings
shall be installed according to accepted horticultural standards.
      (6)   Maintenance. Plantings shall be watered regularly and in a manner
appropriate for the specific plant species through the first growing season,
and dead and dying plants shall be replaced by the applicant during the next
planting season. No buildings, structures, storage of materials, or parking
shall be permitted within the buffer area; buffer areas shall be maintained and
kept free of all trash, debris, weeds and tall grass.
   (D)   Parking lot landscaping.
      (1)   Amount required. In parking lots, at least 5% of the interior
parking area shall be landscaped with plantings, and one tree for each ten
spaces shall be installed. Parking lot street frontage screening and perimeter
screening shall be a minimum of five feet wide. Planting required within the
parking lot is exclusive of other planting requirements, such as for shade
trees planted along the street
      (2)   Location. The landscaping should be located in protected areas,
such as along walkways, in center islands, at the ends of bays, or between
parking stalls. All landscaping in parking areas and on the street frontage
shall be placed so that it will not obstruct sight distance.
      (3)   Plant type.
         (a)   A mixture of hardy flowering and/or decorative evergreen and
deciduous trees shall be planted. Native plant species are strongly encouraged.
         (b)   Evergreens should be used along the perimeter of the lot for
screening, and deciduous trees for shade within the lot. The area between trees
shall be mulched, planted with shrubs or ground cover, or covered with paving
material. Any area that will be under the overhang of vehicles shall be mulched
or covered with paving material.
   (E)   Walls and fences.
      (1)   Walls and fences shall be erected where required for privacy,
screening, separation, security, erosion control or to serve other necessary
and reasonable functions.
      (2)   The design and materials used shall be functional and compatible
with existing and proposed site architecture.
      (3)   No fence or wall shall be so constructed or installed as to
constitute a hazard to traffic or safety.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.44 DEPARTMENT OF HIGHWAYS MAY REVIEW PLATS.
   The State Department of Highways may file with the Planning Commission of
any planning unit exercising subdivision jurisdiction, a map of the territory
within one mile on either or both sides of any existing or proposed highway.
After receipt of the map by the Planning Commission, no preliminary plats shall
be approved by the Commission until one copy of such preliminary plat has been
referred to the designated office of the Department of Highways for its review.
If the Department of Highways desires to make any recommendations on the plan,
it shall communicate such to the Planning Commission within 15 days after the
receipt of the plat.
(KRS 100.287) (Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any Court Clerk, person or entity who receives, files or records a
plat in violation of the provisions of these regulations shall be fined not
less than $100 or more than $500, as provided in KRS 100.991.
   (B)   Any person who transfers or negotiates to transfer any lot in a
subdivision before the Final Plat of said subdivision has been approved by the
Planning Commission and recorded in the County Clerk’s office, or attempts the
description of land by metes and bounds in violation of these regulations,
shall pay to the county a penalty of $100 for each parcel of land so
transferred as provided in the KRS 100.991. The county may, by action in the
Circuit Court, enjoin the transfer or agreement to transfer land as provided in
the KRS 100.991.
(Ord. passed 4-1-2003)
APPENDIX A: FORMS
§ 1   Application for minor plat
§ 2   Minor plat checklist
§ 3   Application for preliminary plat
§ 4   Preliminary plat checklist
§ 5   Application for final plat
§ 6   Final plat checklist
§ 7   Forms for plat certification
Form 1   Certificate of Ownership and Dedication
Form 2   Certificate of Accuracy
Form 3   Certificate of Approval for Recording
Form 4   Certificate of Availability of Water Supply
Form 5   Certificate of Approval of Streets
Form 6   Prohibited Transactions
Form 7   Certificate of Approval of Roadway System
Form 8   Subsurface Sewage Disposal Note
§ 8   Exhibits
EX. 8-1   Classification of Thoroughfares
EX. 8-2   Typical Preliminary Plat
EX. 8-3   Typical Final Plat
EX. 8-4   Typical Road Section
§ 9   201 KAR 18:150: Standards of Practice, Professional Land Surveyors
§ 1   APPLICATION FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
DATE _______________________________
APPLICATION NO. _____________________________
THE UNDERSIGNED APPLIES FOR MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF
SECTION 340 OF THE SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF THE LINCOLN COUNTY/CEDAR CREEK
PLANNING COMMISSION.
SIGNATURE   ___________________________________________
ADDRESS      ___________________________________________
PHONE      ___________________________________________
MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL IS REQUESTED UNDER THE FOLLOWING PROVISIONS
(INDICATE ONE):
A. A SINGLE LOT DIVISION, WHERE A SUBDIVISION CONTAINS A TOTAL OF TWO (2) LOTS,
INCLUDING THE REMAINDER OF THE ORIGINAL TRACT; PROVIDED BOTH LOTS FRONT ON AN
EXISTING PUBLIC STREET; AND THE DIVISION INVOLVES NO OPENING, WIDENING, OR
EXTENSION OR STREETS OR UTILITIES.
B. CONSOLIDATION PLATS WHERE THE DIVISION PROVIDES FOR THE TRANSFER OF LAND
BETWEEN ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS AND DOES NOT INVOLVE THE CREATION OF ANY NEW
LOTS OR BUILDING SITES.
C. CONSOLIDATION PLATS WHERE UP TO AND INCLUDING FIVE (5) LOTS OF RECORD ARE
CONSOLIDATED TO CREATE A LESSER NUMBER OF PARCELS AND INVOLVED NO NEW PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENTS.
D. PLATS OF CORRECTION WHERE THERE IS A NEED TO MAKE TECHNICAL REVISIONS TO A
RECORDED FINAL PLAT OF AN ENGINEERING OR DRAFTING NATURE OR SIMILAR SMALL
DISCREPANCY, BUT NOT INCLUDING THE ALTERING OF ANY PROPERTY LINES OR PUBLIC
IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
***********************************************************************************
FOR OFFICIAL USE & PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW
DATE RECEIVED   __________________________________________
ACTION   ______________________________
COMMENTS   _____________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
______________________      _____________________
CHAIRPERSON            DATE
§ 2 MINOR PLAT REQUIREMENTS AND CHECK LIST
                                                                     YES  NO
Five (5) copies submitted 10 days prior to Planning Commission        ____ ____
meeting
Plat contents per §                                                       
153.17(B) as follows:
A. Name of subdivision and portion thereof
   Date
   Label “Minor Plat”
   Graphic scale
   North arrow                                                     ____ ____
B. Total site data including the following:
   Acreage
   Number of lots
   Area and lot number of the smallest lot
   Square feet of area or acres in parks and other public uses
   Zone districts that apply to subdivision                        ____ ____
C. Name and address of property owner, Subdivider (if other than      ____ ____
owner)
D. Name, address and seal of the registered licensed professional
land surveyor responsible for preparation of the plat and
certification that the plat represents a survey made by him or her    ____ ____
and that all monuments shown actually exist, and their location, size
and material are correctly shown
E. Names and adjacent property owners or subdivisions and abutting    ____ ____
streets
F. Vicinity map at a scale of 2,000 feet per inch or greater showing
the subject property and surrounding land within one-half mile        ____ ____
existing street systems and their connections with proposed streets
G. All exterior plat boundary lines with lengths of courses and
bearings as determined by an accurate survey in the field. The Plat   ____ ____
shall be prepared at a scale of not smaller than one hundred (100)
feet per inch
H. Bearing and distance to nearest established street lines or other  ____ ____
recognized permanent monuments
I. Exact location, right-of-way and names of all streets adjoining    ____ ____
the plat
J. Location and dimensions of all easements or right-of-way when
provided for or owned by public utilities, with the limitations of    ____ ____
the easement rights definitely stated on the plat
K. Location of lots and blocks showing dimensions to nearest one-
hundredth foot, bearings of lot lines, building setback and           ____ ____
identification by consecutive lot number or letter designation
L. Lot width at building setback line/front lot line for lots located ____ ____
on curves
M. All permanent monuments or pins set to be set, such monuments or
witness monuments shall be set at property corners, the intersections
of property lines, the intersection of street centerlines (as         ____ ____
applicable), and at angles along the subdivision boundary. Any
required monument or pin destroyed before acceptance of improvements
shall be replaced by the subdivider or developer
N. Subdivision plats being submitted for industrial and commercial
development shall also show buildings including entrances, loading
areas and, when possible, the number of establishments to be
contained within
O. Deed restrictions and protective covenants (if applicable)         ____ ____
P. Applicable Certificates found in Appendix:                         ____ ____
   FORM 1 Certificate of Ownership and Dedication                  ____ ____
   FORM 2 Certificate of Accuracy                                  ____ ____
   FORM 3 Certificate of Approval For Recording                ____ ____
Q. If any portion of the proposed development lies within any 100-
year floodplain the boundaries of such floodplain shall be shown on
the plat
 
§ 3 APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL
DATE                   ___________________________________________________
APPLICATION NO.             ___________________________________________________
1.   NAME OF APPLICANT      ___________________________________________________
ADDRESS      ___________________________________________________
PHONE      ___________________________________________________
2.   NAME OF
SURVEYOR                                                                                             
ADDRESS       ___________________________________________________
PHONE      ___________________________________________________
3.   NAME OF
SUBDIVISION      ___________________________________________________
4.   LOCATION DESCRIPTION (TAX LOT OR OTHER IDENTIFICATION)
___________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
(IN ADDITION, PLEASE ATTACH COPY OF LEGAL DESCRIPTION)
5.   PROPOSED USE          ___________________________________________________
6.   PRESENT ZONING
DISTRICT   ____________________________________________________
7.   PROPOSED ZONING CHANGES
___________________________________________________
8.   NUMBER OF
LOTS         __________________________________________________  _
AREA OF TRACT          _________________________________________   __________
9.   DO YOU PROPOSE DEED RESTRICTIONS? YES ____ NO ____
(IF YES, PLEASE ATTACH A COPY) _______________________________________________
10.   WHAT TYPE OF SEWAGE DISPOSAL DO YOU PROPOSE? ___________________________
IF AN “ON LOT” TYPE OF SEWAGE DISPOSAL IS PROPOSED, INCLUDE A LETTER FROM THE
COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT APPROVING SUBSURFACE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
11.   LIST ALL PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS AND UTILITIES AND STATE YOUR INTENTION TO
INSTALL OR    POST A GUARANTEE PRIOR TO ACTUAL INSTALLATION.
   IMPROVEMENT   INSTALLATION   GUARANTEE (COST)
A. ____________   _______________   ____________________
B. ____________   _______________   ____________________
C. ____________   _______________   ____________________
D. ____________   _______________   ____________________
E. ____________   _______________   ____________________
12.   VARIANCES REQUESTED FROM PLAT OR DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   SECTION NUMBER   ITEM
A.__________________   _________________
B.__________________   _________________
C.__________________   _________________
D.__________________   _________________
E.__________________   _________________
13.   LIST OTHER MATERIALS SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION.
   ITEM            NO. COPIES
A. ____________________   _________________
B. ____________________   _________________
C. ____________________   _________________
D. ____________________   _________________
E. ____________________   _________________
___________________       _      _________________________________
APPLICANT                  SURVEYOR
*************************************************************************************
FOR OFFICIAL USE — PRELIMINARY PLAT
DATE RECEIVED ____________________________________
DATE OF MEETING OF PLANNING COMMISSION ___________
ACTION BY PLANNING COMMISSION:
(1) APPROVED: (DATE) _______________________________to proceed to final plat.
Subject to the following modifications:
___________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
Variances granted:
_____________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________, OR
(2) DISAPPROVED: (DATE) ___________________________
For the following reasons:
_____________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________               ___________________
CHAIRPERSON                           DATE
Note: The Commission shall have 60 days after the review of this plat to
approve, disapprove or approve subject to modifications, said plat, per §
153.18(B)(3).
§ 4 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS AND CHECK LIST
                                          YES   NO
Fifteen (15) copies submitted 21 days prior to
hearing                     ____   ____
Notification of hearing to subdivided and adjoining property
owners               ____   ____
Copies sent to Resident/County Engineer (or appropriate official) and County
         
Health Department for recommendation                           ____   ____
Plat contents, per §
153.18(A), as follows:
A. Date                                       ____   ____
Label “Preliminary Plat;”                              ____   ____
Graphic scale (not less than 1" = 200');                        ____   ____
North arrow;                                    ____   ____
Vicinity sketch map (1"= 2,000 feet).                           ____   ____
B. Name and location of subdivision.                           ____   ____
   Name and address of property owner, subdivider (if other than
owner)         ____   ____
   and developer
   Name, address and seal of the registered licensed professional land surveyor
   responsible for preparation of the plan and supplementary plans
            ____   ____
   Names of adjacent property owners of record and abutting subdivisions and
streets   ____   ____
C. Acreage of land to be subdivided to nearest 1/100th
acre                  ____   ____
D. Contours at an interval of not greater than five (5) feet or at a lesser
interval
if deemed necessary by the Planning Commission                     ____   ____
E. Boundaries of the tract, showing all bearings and
distances               ____   ____
F. Existing and proposed easements and their locations, widths and
distances         ____   ____
G. Existing and proposed street layout, depicting streets on and adjacent to
the tract      ____   ____
Street names (selected so as not to duplicate any other within the
county)         ____   ____
   Street widths, approximate grades, profiles (1" = 20'), and other dimensions
as
   may be required                                 ____   ____
H. Utilities on and adjacent to the tract showing proposed connections to
existing
utility systems                                    ____   ____
   Existing culverts and watercourses                        ____   ____
   Rear easements for utility poles shall be required wherever
possible         ____   ____
I. Proposed lot lines and lot numbers                           ____   ____
J. Sites and their acreages, if any, to be reserved or dedicated for parks,
playgrounds,      ____   ____
schools or other public uses
   Sites, if any, for semi-public, commercial or multi-family
use               ____   ____
K. Minimum building setback lines                           ____   ____
L. Copies of proposed deed restrictions (if
applicable)                     ____   ____
M. Clearly indicate or discuss proposed erosion control methods
during            ____   ____
construction
O. Certificates 1, 2, 4, 6, 7 and 8 as indicated in the
Appendix               ____   ____
§ 5 APPLICATION FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
DATE                ___________________________________________________
APPLICATION NO.          ___________________________________________________
1.   NAME OF APPLICANT   ___________________________________________________
   ADDRESS         ___________________________________________________
   PHONE         ___________________________________________________
2.   NAME OF SURVEYOR
   ADDRESS          ___________________________________________________
   PHONE          ___________________________________________________
3.   NAME OF SUBDIVISION______________________________________________ _____
4.   DATE PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVED   ___________________________   ______
5.   WAS A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT REQUESTED?   _____________________________
IF YES, THE PLAT MAY NOT BE APPROVED UNTIL IT CONFORMS WITH THE LOCAL ZONING
INCLUDING A CERTIFICATION OF ZONING COMPLIANCE IF A CHANGE WAS REQUESTED.
6.   HAVE ALL REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS BEEN INSTALLED? ________________________
IF NO, INCLUDE DETAILED ESTIMATES OF COST AND A STATEMENT RELATIVE TO THE
METHOD OF IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEE. ALL ESTIMATES MUST BE APPROVED BY THE
RESPONSIBLE (MUNICIPAL, COUNTY) OFFICIAL.
7.   DO YOU PROPOSE DEED RESTRICTIONS? ______________________________
8.   WAIVERS REQUESTED FOR PLAT OR DESIGN STANDARDS.
   SECTION NUMBER   ITEM
A.__________________   _________________
B.__________________   _________________
C.__________________   _________________
D._________________   _________________
E.__________________   _________________
9.   LIST OTHER MATERIALS SUBMITTED WITH THE APPLICATION.
   ITEM            NO. COPIES
A. ____________________   _________________
B. ____________________   _________________
C. ____________________   _________________
D. ____________________   _________________
E. ____________________   _________________
__________________         __      _________________________________
APPLICANT                SURVEYOR
***********************************************************************************
FOR OFFICIAL USE — FINAL PLAT
DATE RECEIVED _____________________________________
DATE OF MEETING OF PLANNING COMMISSION    ____________________________
ACTION BY PLANNING COMMISSION:   _________________________
(1) APPROVED:          __ (DATE)_________ to record in County Clerk’s office.
Subject to the following modifications:
___________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
Variances granted:
___________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
,OR
(2)   DISAPPROVED: ____ (DATE)____________________
For the following reasons:
______________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________         _____________
CHAIRMAN               DATE
Note: the Commission shall have sixty (60) days after the review of the final
plat to approve or disapprove said plat per §
153.20(B).
§ 6 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS AND CHECK LIST
                                          YES    NO
Submitted within 1 year of preliminary
approval                        ____   ____
Original and fifteen (15) prints submitted 21 days prior to meeting
               ____   ____
FORM 1 Certificate of Ownership and Dedication                      ____   ____
FORM 2 Certificate of Accuracy                              ____   ____
FORM 3 Certificate of Recording                               ____   ____
FORM 4 Certificate of Availability of Water Supply
                     ____   ____
FORM 5 Certificate of Approval of Streets                        ____   ____
FORM 8 Subsurface Sewage Disposal Note                         ____   ____
One print transmitted to Resident/County Engineer, or appropriate official,
and County Health Officer                                 ____   ____
Private deed restrictions on or attached to
plat                        ____   ____
Plat contents, per §
153.20(A), as follows:
   A.   Date;                                    ____   ____
      Label “Final Plat”;                              ____   ____
      Graphic scale (not less than 1" = 100');                     ____   ____
      North arrow;                                 ____   ____
      Vicinity sketch map (1" = 2,000 feet).                     ____   ____
   B.   Name and location of subdivision;                        ____   ____
      Name and address of property owner, subdivider (if other than owner), and
      developer;                                 ____   ____
      Name, address and seal of the registered licensed professional land
surveyor
      responsible for preparation of the plan and supplementary
plans;         ____   ____
      Names of adjacent property owners of record and abutting subdivisions and
      streets.                                 ____   ____
   C.   Acreage of land to be subdivided to 1/100th of an
acre            ____   ____
   D.   True bearings and distances to nearest established control points or
official
      monuments.                                 ____   ____
   E.   Tract boundary lines;                           ____   ____
      Right-of-way lines of streets, easements and other rights-of-
way;         ____   ____
      Property fines of residential lots and other sides with accurate
dimensions
      to the nearest one hundredth of a foot;                     ____   ____
      Bearings of deflection angles, radii, arcs and central angles of all
curves with
      dimensions to the nearest minute;                     ____   ____
      Landscaping requirements shall be indicated to comply with design
      standards.                                 ____   ____
   F.   Proposed street layout including street names.
   G.   Lot numbers and addresses.                        ____   ____
   H.   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots are dedicated or
reserved.   ____   ____
   I.   Minimum building setback lines.                        ____   ____
   J.   Location and description of monuments, including bench marks, existing
      streams or other bodies of water, significant trees and tree stands,
      sinkholes, etc.                              ____   ____
   K.   Names and location of adjoining subdivisions and streets;
      Location of adjoining unplatted properties;                  ____   ____
      Names and addresses of the owners of adjoining unplatted
properties.      ____   ____
   L.   Cross-sections, profiles and grades of streets, curbs, gutters showing
the
      locations of in-street utilities drawn to County specifications, and
elevations;   ____   ____
      Road profiles and roadway design signed by a licensed
engineer;         ____   ____
      Seal and signature of engineer.                        ____   ____
   M.   Protective covenants, if applicable.                     ____   ____
§ 7 FORMS FOR PLAT CERTIFICATION
FORM 1: Certificate of Ownership and Dedication (Minor, Preliminary and Final)
I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my
(our) free consent, establish the minimum building restriction lines, and
dedicate all streets, alleys, walks, parks and other open spaces to public or
private use as noted.
_____________________________      _______________
Owner                   Date
_____________________________      _______________
Owner                   Date
FORM 2: Certificate of Accuracy (Minor, Preliminary and Final)
I hereby certify that the survey depicted by this plat was done under my direct
supervision by the method of random traverse with side shots. The unadjusted
closure ratio was 1:______. The values identified hereon are adjusted values
based on a transit rule adjustment. All corner and witness corner locations are
monumented with 1/2" conduit in accordance with 201 KAR 18:150, Section 8, with
a metallic cap stamped ___________________, except when noted otherwise. I
further certify that this plat meets the accuracy standard required by the
Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission.
_________________________________________         __________________
Registered Licensed Professional Land Surveyor         Date
FORM 3: Certificate of Approval for Recording (Minor and Final)
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Regulations for Lincoln County, Kentucky, with the
exception of such variances, if any, as are noted in the minutes of the
Planning Commission and that it has been approved for recording in the office
of the County Clerk.
__________________________________      __________________
Chairperson, Planning Commission         Date
FORM 4: Certificate of Availability of Water Supply (Preliminary Plat)
I hereby certify that the ___________ shall supply the
______________Subdivision with services and that the water distribution of said
subdivision meets the requirements of this Agency and all other requirements
for the proper distribution of water.
____________________________      _______________
Signed                  Date
FORM 5: Certification of the Approval of Streets (Final Plat)
I hereby certify:
(1) that streets have been installed in an acceptable manner and according to
county specifications in the subdivision entitled: ______________________ or,
(2) that a security bond has been posted with the Lincoln County Fiscal Court
to assure completion of all required improvements in case of default.
______________________________________         ___________________
County Road Engineer                     Date
Form 6: Prohibited Transactions (Preliminary Plat)
This Plat cannot be used for the sale of undeveloped lots, until after a Final
Plat has been recorded.
______________________________________         ____________________
Owner                            Date
Form 7: Certificate of Approval of Roadway System (Preliminary Plat)
I hereby certify that the roadway locations and cross-sections proposed to be
constructed in the Subdivision shown hereon meet the criteria of the Lincoln
County Road Department.
______________________________________         _____________________
County Road Engineer                      Date
Form 8: Subsurface Sewage Disposal Plat Note (Preliminary and Final Plats)
Sewage disposal for this development shall be by a subsurface disposal method
approved by the Lincoln County Health Department. Prior to beginning
construction on a lot, a person shall obtain a valid subsurface sewage disposal
permit issued pursuant to 902 KAR 10:081 and 902 KAR 10:085.
§ 8 EXHIBITS
EXHIBIT 8-1
CLASSIFICATION OF THOROUGHFARES
EXHIBIT 8-2
TYPICAL PRELIMINARY PLAT
EXHIBIT 8-3
TYPICAL FINAL PLAT
EXHIBIT 8-4
TYPICAL ROAD SECTION
§ 9 201 KAR 18:150 STANDARDS OF PRACTICE, PROFESSIONAL LAND SURVEYORS
201 KAR 18:150. STANDARDS OF PRACTICE.
RELATES TO: KRS 322.290(1)(a), (2)(f)
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: KRS 322.290(2)(f)
NECESSITY, FUNCTION, AND CONFORMITY: KRS 322.290(1)(a) authorizes the board to
administer KRS Chapter 322. KRS 322.290(2)(f) requires the board to establish
standards of practice. This administrative regulation establishes standards of
practice for professional land surveyors in Kentucky.
Section 1. Definitions. 
(1)   “Boundary survey” means a survey for which the primary purpose includes
the:
   (a)   Determining of the perimeter of a parcel or tract of land;
   (b)   Establishing or reestablishing of a parcel corner or monument;
   (c)   Describing, platting and locating each fixed improvement on the parcel
surveyed; or
   (d)   Dividing or consolidating the parcels surveyed.
(2)   “Plat of survey” means a drawing of a parcel or tract of real property
used to depict the final results of a field survey.
(3)   “Corner” means a point on a land boundary that designates a change in
direction.
(4)   “Monument” means an artificial manmade or natural object that is used as,
or presumed to occupy, a:
   (a)   Real property corner;
   (b)   Point on a boundary line; or
   (c)   Reference point.
(5)   “Witness monument” means a monument:
   (a)   That does not occupy the same defined position as a corner; and
   (b)   Whose relationship to the corner is established.
(6)   “Meander point” means a survey point or station marking a change in
direction along a linear feature such as a watercourse, ridge, road or cliff.
(7)   “Reference point” means the defined position of a point that is, or can
be, established in relation to the position of another defined point or points.
Section 2. The standards of practice established in this administrative
regulation:
(1)   Shall be the minimum standards of practice for a professional land
surveyor; and   
(2)   Shall not limit the establishment of more stringent standards of practice
for a professional land surveyor by:
   (a)   An agency;
   (b)   An owner;
   (c)   Contract; or
   (d)   The professional land surveyor.
Section 3. (1) (a) Boundary surveying in Kentucky, and a document purporting to
represent a boundary survey, shall comply with the provisions of this
administrative regulation;
   (b)   Failure to comply with this administrative regulation shall constitute
misconduct, gross negligence, incompetence, or a combination of these
violations in the practice of professional land surveying.
(2)   A professional land surveyor shall not represent that:
   (a)   A boundary survey determines land ownership;
   (b)   A boundary survey provides more than evidence of rights in land; or
   (c)   Land ownership can be established by a means other man an action in a
Kentucky court.
Section 4. The marks on the ground of a professional land surveyor shall
constitute the actual boundary survey.
Section 5. Record Research. (1) To determine the proper description of the land
to be surveyed, a professional land surveyor shall conduct research to obtain
record description of:
   (a)   Each parcel to be surveyed; and
   (b)   Each adjoining parcel.
(2)   A professional land surveyor shall evaluate:
   (a)   Historical records of the subject and each adjoining parcel;
   (b)   Records of:
1.   Previous pertinent surveys;
2.   Tax maps;
3.   Topographic maps;
4.   Aerial photographs; and
5.   Public agency records; and
   (c)   Other available data pertinent to the boundary survey.
(3)   A professional land surveyor shall analyze the data and make a
determination of the record boundary of each parcel to be surveyed.
(4)   Research required by the provisions of this administrative regulation:
   (a)   Shall be used by a professional land surveyor to determine the
location of the parcel boundary; and
   (b)   Shall not be used by a professional land surveyor to determine title.
Section 6. Field Research. A professional land surveyor shall thoroughly:
(1)   Search for the physical monument that represents each parcel corner;
(2)   Analyze evidence of occupation;
(3)   Investigate possible parole evidence supporting the position of monuments
or corners;
(4)   Compare evidence discovered by the field survey with the record research
to establish the boundary of the land being surveyed.
Section 7. Measurement Specifications. (1) Every measurement made as a part of
a boundary survey shall comply with:
   (a)   The standards for accuracy and precision established by the provisions
of this section; or
   (b)   At the request of the client, standards for accuracy and precision
that exceed the standards established by the provisions of this section.
(2)   A professional land surveyor shall conduct measurements with instruments
and equipment that are properly:
   (a)   Adjusted;
   (b)   Maintained; and
   (c)   Calibrated to meet the appropriate tolerance required for the
classification of survey as specified in subsection (6) of this section.
(3)   A boundary survey shall be conducted utilizing a method of closed
traverse and the measurement of angles and distances that achieve the
appropriate tolerance specified in subsection (6) of this section.
(4)   A boundary survey for platting or describing a land parcel shall be
classified as Class A or Class B.
   (a)   Class A shall:
1.   Consist of urban or suburban land; and
2.   Include a parcel lying within, or adjacent to:
a.   A city or town limit;
b.   A commercial business area;
c.   An industrial area;
d.   A residential area; or
e.   A developing area.
   (b)   Class B shall:
1.   Consist of rural land; and
2.   Include:
a.   A farm;
b.   A woodland; or
c.   Other land not included in Class A.
(5)   The accuracy and precision of a boundary survey shall not be less than
the appropriate requirements established in subsection (6) of this section.
(6)   Table of Specifications by Class: Classification of Surveys.
 
                                 Class A Urban & Suburban Class B Rural Remarks
Unadjusted Closure (Minimum) or  1:10,000                 1:5,000       Loop
Between Control Monuments
Angular Closure (Maximum) Number 15"N                     30"N          N=
of Angles in Traverse
Accuracy of Distances            0.05'+100 PPM            0.10'+200 PPM 100
PPM = 1:10,000                                                         
 
Section 8. Monumentation. (1) In a boundary survey, a professional land
surveyor snail make a determination of the boundary and corners of the parcel
being surveyed.
(2)   Unless an adequate monument already exists at each parcel corner, a
professional land surveyor shall set a monument or a witness monument at each
corner of a parcel as provided in this section.
(3)   A monument or witness monument set by a professional land surveyor shall
be:
   (a)   Made of, or contain, a ferrous material;
   (b)   Not less than one-half (1/2) inch in diameter and eighteen (18) inches
in length;
   (c)   A minimum of schedule forty (40) weight if pipe is utilized; and
   (d)   Identified with a cap bearing the registration number of the
professional land surveyor responsible for and in charge of the survey.
(4)   A monument or witness monument shall be required at each corner of a
boundary survey.
(5)   A parcel corner shall be identified by a witness monument if a monument
cannot be set because the corner:
   (a)   Falls upon rock, concrete, or other like material;
   (b)   Is likely to be disturbed; or
   (c)   Is inaccessible.
(6)   A witness monument shall be set:
   (a)   On the boundary line, if practicable; and
   (b)   As close as practicable to the corner location.
(7)   A professional land surveyor shall set each monument in a manner to avoid
its destruction.
(8)   (a)   A tree shall not be established as a corner monument except on a
rural boundary survey.
   (b)   A tree that a professional land surveyor establishes as a corner
monument shall be:
1.   At least ten (10) inches in diameter at breast height;
2.   In sound condition;
3.   Marked in a conspicuous manner; and
4.   Clearly described by size, species and method of marking on the plat, and
in the written description.
   (c)   Trees shall not constitute more than 50% of the established monuments
for a boundary survey in a rural land classification.
   (d)   For an urban or suburban survey in which a tree is found to be the
monument of record, the tree shall be witness-monumented.
(9)   A corner monument that a professional land surveyor has determined is not
of sound condition or which fails to meet the standards established in this
administrative regulation shall be witness-monumented to perpetuate the corner
location.
(10) Linear monuments.
   (a)   The following distinct physical features may be utilized as a
monument:
1.   A watercourse;
2.   A ridge;
3.   A road; or
4.   A cliff.
   (b)   The point at which a boundary line intersects a physical feature shall
be monumented or witness-monumented.
   (c)   A physical feature that represents a linear monument shall be wimess-
monumented at a minimum of every 1,000 feet.
   (d)   A professional land surveyor shall obtain sufficient field survey data
to define the position of each physical monument in order to accurately plat,
describe, and calculate the area of the land being surveyed.
Section 9. Documentation. (1) The corner monuments established or reestablished
by a professional land surveyor shall constitute the actual boundary survey.
(2)   A professional land surveyor shall provide a plat of survey to the client
upon the completion of a boundary survey in which he has:
   (a)   Retraced a previously established boundary line; or
   (b)   Established a new boundary line.
(3)   A professional land surveyor shall retain as permanent record the
following items pertaining to a boundary survey:
   (a)   Plats;
   (b)   Written descriptions;
   (c)   Research documents;
   (d)   Field and office notes;
   (e)   Electronic and magnetically stored field data; and
   (f)   Documents of calculations stating the:
1.   Closure;
2.   Adjustment method;
3.   Bearing reference datum; and
4.   Determination of corners.
(4)   A written description prepared by a professional land surveyor for the
purpose of defining a parcel boundary shall:
   (a)   Be complete;
   (b)   Accurately describe the actual boundary survey; and
   (c)   Contain the information specified in this paragraph:
1. Captions sufficient to identify the:
a. General location of the land surveyed;
b. Specific location of the land in reference to a major physical feature, or
primary control network; and
c. Reference of at least one (1) corner to a corner of the parent tract;
2. The direction and length of each line, as follows:
a.   (i)   Each bearing shall be shown in degrees, minutes, seconds; and
            (ii)   Each distance shall be shown to hundredths of a foot; or
b.   A geometrically-curved line shall be identified with a beginning point,
terminus point and sufficient curve data to define the curve;
3.   A description of each monument marking or witnessing a corner, including:
a.   A notation as to whether found or set;
b.   Dimensions;
c.   Type of material; and
d.   Identification cap;
4.   The names and record sources of adjoining property owners;
5.   A notation describing each prominent feature of terrain which the boundary
follows;
6.   Calculated area of the land surveyed, computed either to the nearest
hundredth of an acre or square foot;
7.   Reference to the record source of the land surveyed;
8.   Name and registration number of the professional land surveyor who
performed the survey, and name of the land surveying firm, if any;
9.   A dated signature and the seal of the professional land surveyor
responsible for
and in charge of the survey; and
10.   Date of the field survey.
(5)   A final plat of a boundary survey shall be drawn to scale on durable,
dimensionally-stable media, and clearly contain the following information:
   (a)   Direction and length of each line as follows:
      1.   a.   Each bearing shown in degrees, minutes and seconds; and b. Each
distance shown to hundredths of a foot; or
      2.   A geometrically-curved line shall be identified with a beginning
point, terminus point, and sufficient curve data to define the curve;
   (b)   Calculated area of the land surveyed computed either to the nearest
hundredth of an acre or nearest square foot;
   (c)   A description of each monument, which marks or witnesses a corner,
including:
      1.   A notation as to whether found or set;
      2.   Dimensions;
      3.   Type of material; and
      4.   Identification cap;
   (d)   Reference of at least one (1) corner to a:
      1.   Corner of the parent tract;
      2.   Durable physical object; or
      3.   Primary control network, such as state plane coordinates;
   (e)   1.   The name of each road;
      2. The name and record sources of each adjoiner; and
      3. The name and record sources of each adjoining subdivision;
   (f)   An apparent encroachment discovered in the course of the survey;
   (g)   The reference meridian and whether its basis is:
      1. True;
      2. Grid;
      3. Record, including the source of the record meridian;
      4. State plane; or
      5. Magnetic, including the date of the observation;
   (h)   Vicinity map of sufficient detail to locate the land being surveyed,
unless the location of the property is clearly shown by the plat itself;
   (i)   A statement disclosing the unadjusted error of closure;
   (j)   A statement identifying the land classification of the parcel
surveyed;
   (k)   A statement as to whether the directions and distances shown on the
plat is based on an adjusted traverse;
   (l)   The location of a cemetery or grave site that is visible or
discernible during the field survey or the required research;
   (m)   A dated signature and the seal of the professional land surveyor
responsible for and in charge of the survey;
   (n)   A written and graphic scale; and
   (o)   A title block containing the following:
1.   Name and address of client and parcel owner;
2.   Title of the survey;
3.   Location of each parcel surveyed; and
4.   Name and address of the professional land surveyor and, if applicable, the
firm that performed the survey.
Section 10. Marking of Working Drawings And Unfinished Plats. (1) A working
drawing or unfinished plat:
   (a)   Shall be marked as to its intended use; and
   (b)   Shall not be sealed.
(2)   A marking shall be made in a manner similar to:
   (a)   “PRELIMINARY - NOT FOR RECORDING OR LAND TRANSFER”; or
   (b)   “EXHIBIT”.
Section 11. Partial Boundary Survey. (1) A partial boundary survey may be
conducted by a professional land surveyor if:
   (a)   The portion of the property being surveyed can be clearly isolated
from the remainder of the property; and
   (b)   The interest of an adjoining owner is not affected.
(2)   A plat of a partial survey shall:
   (a)   Comply with this administrative regulation; and
   (b)   Graphically delineate that portion of the boundary covered by the
current survey from the remainder of the property.
(12 Ky.R 291; eff. 9-10-85; Am. 16 Ky.R. 592; 1157; eff. 12-6-89; 24 Ky.R.
1540; 1866; 2062; eff. 3-12-98.)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Authority
   
154.003   Goal and objective
   
154.004   Purpose
   
154.005   Jurisdiction
   
154.006   Interpretation
   
154.007   Continuity
   
154.008   Interpretation of terms
   
154.009   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.020   Administrative/Enforcement Officer
   
154.021   Building permits
   
154.022   Procedure
   
154.023   Enforcement by Commission
   
154.024   Enforcement
   
154.025   Fee schedule
Board of Adjustment
   
154.040   Establishment of Board
   
154.041   Meetings of Board, quorum, minutes, bylaws
   
154.042   Other rights and powers of Board
   
154.043   Conditional use permits
   
154.044   Dimensional variance
   
154.045   Recording of variances and conditional use permits
   
154.046   Existing nonconforming use, continuance, change
   
154.047   Administrative review
   
154.048   Procedure for all appeals to Board
Nonconforming Lots, Structures and Uses
   
154.060   Intent
   
154.061   Nonconforming lots of record
   
154.062   Nonconforming structures and uses
   
154.063   Ordinary repair and maintenance
Establishment of Districts
   
154.075   General regulation
   
154.076   Official zoning map
   
154.077   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.078   Landfills
   
154.079   Districts established
   
154.080   Expressly prohibited uses in all districts
   
154.081   Agricultural District (A-1)
   
154.082   Residential Districts
   
154.083   Single-Family Residential District (R-1)
   
154.084   Single- Multi-Family District (R-2)
   
154.085   Commercial/Professional Office District (C/PO)
   
154.086   Applicable to all C/PO land uses
   
154.087   Recreation District (R-R)
   
154.088   Industrial Districts
   
154.089   Light Industrial District (I-1)
   
154.090   Floodplain District (F)
Application of Regulations
   
154.105   Application of regulations generally
   
154.106   Special provisions for agricultural areas
   
154.107   Subdivision of all land
   
154.108   Certificate of land use restriction
Supplemental District Regulations
   
154.120   Applicability
   
154.121   Yard regulations
   
154.122   Setback lines, exceptions
   
154.123   Lot access requirements
   
154.124   Accessory buildings
   
154.125   Swimming pools
   
154.126   Exceptions to height limitations
   
154.127   Subdivision or consolidation of lots
   
154.128   Visibility at intersections
   
154.129   Water supply and sewage disposal
   
154.130   Excavation and grading for approved construction
Manufactured/Mobile Homes
   
154.145   Intent
   
154.146   Manufactured/mobile home definitions
   
154.147   Certified mobile homes permitted
   
154.148   Mobile home parks and recreational vehicle parks
   
154.149   Manufactured/certified mobile home installation requirements
   
154.150   Temporary use of manufactured or certified mobile homes
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
154.165   Existing parking spaces
   
154.166   Required off-street parking spaces
   
154.167   Parking space dimensions and setbacks
   
154.168   Off-street parking standards
   
154.169   Off-street loading and unloading space regulations for trucks
   
154.170   Additional parking, loading and unloading regulations
   
154.171   Parking, storage or use of major recreational equipment
   
154.172   Local ordinances
Signs and Billboards
   
154.185   Intent
   
154.186   General sign regulations
   
154.187   Residential Districts
   
154.188   Commercial/Professional Office District
   
154.189   Industrial District
   
154.190   Maintenance
   
154.191   Violations
Planned Unit Developments
   
154.205   Objectives for planned unit developments
   
154.206   Provisions governing planned unit developments
   
154.207   Uses permitted
   
154.208   Project ownership
   
154.209   Common open space and disposition thereof
   
154.210   Maintenance within rights-of-way
   
154.211   Utility requirements
   
154.212   Minimum project area
   
154.213   Procedure for application and approval of planned unit developments
Development Plans
   
154.225   General
   
154.226   Preliminary development plans required
   
154.227   Final development plans required
   
154.228   Contents of preliminary development plan
   
154.229   Contents of final development plan
   
154.230   Approval of development plan before building permit
   
154.231   Amendments to development plan
Communications Towers
   
154.245   Purpose
   
154.246   Pre-application conference
   
154.247   Definitions
   
154.248   General
   
154.249   Applicability
   
154.250   Application procedure
   
154.251   Confidentiality of information
   
154.252   Application fee
   
154.253   Processing of application
   
154.254   Design standards
   
154.255   Criteria
Amendments
   
154.270   General
   
154.271   Application for amendment
   
154.272   Planning Commission procedure
   
154.273   Notice of public hearing
   
154.274   Public hearing on application
   
154.275   Recommendation of Commission for zoning map amendment
   
154.276   Action by legislative body on zoning map amendments
   
154.277   Action by legislative bodies for text amendment
   
154.278   Special conditions to the granting of zoning changes
   
154.279   Amendment; reapplication timeframe
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and referred to as the “Zoning Ordinance
for Lincoln County.” It may be cited as “this chapter,” the “Lincoln County
Zoning Ordinance” or the “zoning ordinance.”
   (B)   The map referred to herein is entitled the “Zoning Map for Lincoln
County, Kentucky” and the “Zoning Atlas for Lincoln County, Kentucky.” It may
be cited as the “Lincoln County Zoning Atlas” or the “County Zoning Atlas.”
   (C)   Certified copies of this chapter and the maps are on file with the
County Clerk’s Office as appropriate. Additional copies of this chapter are
available from the County Planning Office.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.002 AUTHORITY.
   Authority for this chapter is granted by KRS 100.201 through 100.271. The
Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission and the County Fiscal Court have
fulfilled the requirements set forth as prerequisite to the adoption of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.003 GOAL AND OBJECTIVE.
   The goal of this chapter is to establish a program of zoning for the county.
The objective of this chapter is to guide the use of land and the location and
design of structures in a manner that will stabilize property values, assist in
achieving a sound growth policy, promote an orderly pattern of land use, and
direct development of community facilities and services within the jurisdiction
of the county.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.004 PURPOSE.
   The zoning regulations and districts set forth herein have been made in
accordance with the County Comprehensive Flan prepared by the Planning
Commission to:
   (A)   Promote the general welfare, health, safety and convenience of the
citizens of the county;
   (B)   Execute the provisions of the County Comprehensive Plan regarding
growth and development in the unincorporated areas of the county, to ensure
suitable and satisfactory arrangements between the various types of land use;
   (C)   Lessen traffic congestion and secure safety from fire, flood and other
dangers throughout the county; and
   (D)   Facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, schools,
recreation and other public improvements stemming directly or indirectly from
the use of land throughout the county.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.005 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the unincorporated areas of the
county.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.006 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare. Whenever the requirements of
this chapter differ from the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, resolutions or ordinances the most restrictive, or that imposing
higher standards, shall govern. Interpretation of zoning district boundaries on
the legally adopted zoning maps and/or atlas shall be interpreted as set forth
in §
154.007.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.007 CONTINUITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall change the effective date of a violation of
any provision of any previously adopted zoning ordinance that continues to be a
violation of any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.008 INTERPRETATION OF TERMS.
   (A)   Unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions shall
be used in the interpretation of this chapter. The words which are defined are
those having special or limited meanings in this chapter. Words with self-
evident meanings are not defined here.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; words
used in the singular include the plural and the plural include the singular.
      (2)   The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is permissive; the
word “should” is preferred.
      (3)   The word “building” includes the word “structure.”
      (4)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot” and “parcel.”
      (5)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
      (6)   The word “submission” indicates a complete filing as called for by
this chapter.
      (7)   The words “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended,
designed or arranged to be used or occupied.”
   (C)   These definitions shall be first used in the interpretation of any
words or phrases used in this chapter. Any words or phrases not defined in this
chapter shall be given the definition provided in KRS Chapter 100 (planning and
zoning statutes) or KRS Chapter 219 (mobile and recreational vehicle park).
Words neither defined in this chapter nor in KRS Chapters 100 and 219 shall be
given their ordinary meaning and usage.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.009 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSARY USE OR STRUCTURE. Any use or structure on the same lot with, and
of a nature customarily incidental to or subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   ADMINISTRATIVE/ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Administrative/Enforcement Officer
is an individual who shall be appointed by the County Judge/Executive of the
county with consent and approval of Fiscal Court, to administer this chapter.
This OFFICER may also be known as the BUILDING INSPECTOR, ENFORCEMENT OFFICER,
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR or various other titles descriptive of the work performed.
The duties and titles may be split between one or more persons as required.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of a tract of at least five contiguous acres for
the production of agricultural or horticultural crops, including, but not
limited to, livestock, livestock products, poultry, poultry products, grain,
hay, pastures, soybeans, tobacco, timber orchard fruits, vegetables, flowers or
ornamental plants, including provision for dwellings for persons and their
families who are engaged in the above agricultural use on the tract, but not
including residential building development for sale or lease to the public, and
shall also include, regardless of the size of the tract of land used, small
wineries licensed under KRS 243.155, and farm wineries licensed under the
provisions of KRS 243.156.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. Any structure or building, other than a dwelling,
accessory to the principle use of the land.
   ALLEY. Any public or private way affording a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION. Any change or addition to the supporting members or foundation
of a building or other structure.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family building, consisting
of at least one habitable room, together with a kitchen or kitchenette and
sanitary facilities.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission
unless a different agency is specifically designated by ordinance.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street, used
for display, sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition and where no repair work is done. No vehicles shall be
placed or displayed forward of the building line required for the district.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MAJOR. Repair of motor vehicles or trailers, including
rebuilding or reconditioning of engines and/or transmissions; collision
services including body, frame or fender straightening or repair; overall
painting or paint shop and vehicle steam cleaning.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, MINOR. Incidental minor repairs, upholstering,
replacement of parts and motor service to passenger cars and trucks not
exceeding one and one-half tons capacity, but not including any operation named
under “automotive repair, major,” or any other similar thereto. Cars or trucks
being repaired or under repair shall not be stored outside the building for
more than 48 hours.
   AUTOMOTIVE WRECKING. The dismantling or disassembling of used motor
vehicles, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, obsolete or wrecked
vehicles or their parts.
   BASEMENT. A story whose floor line is below grade at any entrance or exit
and whose ceiling is not more than five feet above grade at any such entrance
or exit.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A residential unit where four or fewer sleeping rooms are
provided for transient persons for compensation, and in which meals may be
served to overnight guests.
   BILLBOARD. A sign, or structure, which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, activity or entertainment not conducted, sold or offered
upon the premises upon which the sign is located (See §
154.185 through
154.191.)
   BOARD. The Board of Adjustment for Lincoln County, Kentucky.
   BOARDING OR LODGING HOUSE. A dwelling or part thereof occupied by a single
housekeeping unit where meals and lodgings are provided for four or more
persons (not transients) for compensation by previous arrangement.
   BUILDABLE LOT AREA. The part of a lot not included within the open areas
required by this chapter.
   BUILDING. Any structure having enclosed space and a roof.
      (1)   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building detached from, but
located on the same lot as the principal building, the use of which is
incidental to and accessory to that of the main building or use.
      (2)   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which said building is situated.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average elevation of the
proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of
the roof of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean
height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING LINES. See also SETBACK LINES. Lines and/or utility easements and
rights-of-way beyond which no building or part thereof shall project, except as
otherwise provided by this chapter.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Administrative/Enforcement Officer
authorizing the use of lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and the
characteristics of the uses.
   BUSINESS. The following definitions of varying types of business uses may be
used to clarify permitted and conditional uses in a commercially zoned
district.
      (1)   BUSINESS, CONVENIENCE OR NEIGHBORHOOD. Commercial establishments
which cater to and can be located in close proximity to or within residential
districts without creating undue vehicular congestion, excessive noise or other
objectionable influences. To prevent congestion, CONVENIENCE uses include, but
need not be limited to, drugstores, video rental stores, beauty salons, barber
shops, carry-outs, dry cleaning and laundry pick up facilities, and grocery
stores, if less than 10,000 square feet in floor area. Uses in this
classification tend to serve the day-to-day needs of the neighborhood.
      (2)   BUSINESS, GENERAL. Commercial uses which generally require
locations on or near major thoroughfares and/or their intersections, and which
tend, in addition to serving the day-to-day needs of the community, also supply
more durable and permanent needs of the whole community. GENERAL BUSINESS uses
include, but need not be limited to, such activities as supermarkets; stores
that sell hardware, apparel, footwear, appliances and furniture; department
stores and discount stores.
      (3)   BUSINESS, HIGHWAY. Commercial uses which generally require
locations on or near major thoroughfares and/or their intersections and which
tend to serve the motoring public. HIGHWAY BUSINESS uses include, but need not
be limited to, such activities as gas stations, auto and truck sales and
service, restaurants, including drive through restaurants, motels and
commercial recreation.
      (4)   BUSINESS, OFFICE/PROFESSIONAL. Quasi-commercial uses which may
often be transitional between retail business and/or manufacturing and
residential uses. Office/professional generally accommodates such occupations
as administrative, executive, professional, accounting, writing, clerical,
stenographic and chaffing. Institutional offices of a charitable,
philanthropic, religious or educational nature are also included in this
classification.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate issued by the Administrative/
Enforcement Officer, after construction has taken place, which certifies that
the building meets minimum standards for human occupancy.
   CITIZEN MEMBER. Any member of the Planning Commission And/or Board of
Adjustments who is not an elected or appointed official or an employee of the
county.
   CLINIC. A place used for the diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
informed and/or injured persons and those who are in need of medical or
surgical attention, but limited to outpatients only.
   COMMERCIAL FLOOR AREA. Building floor area devoted to the display of
merchandise, the performance of consumer services, or the circulation and
accommodation of customers.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. An open space area within or related to a site designated
as a development, and designed and intended for the use or enjoyment of
residents and/or owners of the development. Common open space may contain such
complementary structures and improvements as are necessary and appropriate for
the use or enjoyment of residents and/or owners of the development.
   COMMISSION, PLANNING. Planning Commission of Lincoln County, Kentucky; also
known as the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission or the Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan prepared to serve as a guide for public and
private actions and decisions to assure the development of public and private
property in the most appropriate manner within the planning area and adopted by
the Planning Commission in accordance with KRS Chapter 100. This plan also
establishes the goals, objectives and policies of the community.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use specifically permitted in a zoning district, other
than a principally permitted use, requiring a conditional use permit and the
review and approval of the Board of Zoning Adjustment. A CONDITIONAL USE is
permitted but could impair the integrity and character of the zone in which it
is located, or of adjoining zones, unless restrictions on location, size,
extent and character of performance are imposed in addition to those set forth
by the zoning ordinance.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. Legal authorization to undertake a conditional use,
issued by the Administrative Official pursuant to authorization by the Board of
Zoning Adjustment, consisting of two parts:
      (1)   A statement of the factual determination of the Board of Zoning
Adjustment, which justifies the issuance of the permit; and
      (2)   A statement of the specific conditions which must be met in order
for the use to be permitted.
   CONSOLIDATION. The joining together of two or more contiguous lots for the
purpose of sale, lease or building development.
   CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME. An establishment which provides full-time
convalescent or chronic care or both for three or more individuals who are not
related by blood or marriage to the operator and who by reason of chronic
illness or infirmity, are unable to care for themselves. No care for the
acutely ill or surgical or obstetrical services shall be provided in such a
home. Hospital or sanitarium shall not be construed to be included in this
definition.
   COURT. An open, unoccupied and unobstructed space other than a yard, on the
same lot with a building or a group of buildings.
   COUNCIL, CITY. Legislative body for the City of Stanford, Kentucky.
   COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by the building including
all overhanging roofs.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
      (1)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land to be
developed.
      (2)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the
acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses.
   DEVELOPER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of all land proposed to
be included in a development, including the holder of options or contracts to
purchase or other such persons having a proprietary interest in such land.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A presentation in the form of sketches, maps and drawings
(plans and profiles) of a proposed use and/or structure by the owner of the
land which sets forth in detail the intended development (see site plan). At a
minimum, a development plan shall include the information detailed in §§
154.225 through
154.231. DEVELOPMENT PLANS shall be required by the Planning Commission for all
zone change requests. The subdivision preliminary and final plat process
detailed in the county subdivision regulations shall satisfy the DEVELOPMENT
PLAN requirements for all single-family residential developments.
   DIMENSIONAL VARIANCE. See VARIANCE, DIMENSIONAL.
   DISTRICT. An area or zone of the municipality for which regulations
governing the use of premises and structures or the height and area of
buildings are uniform.
   DWELLING. A building or structure which is wholly or partly used or intended
to be used for living or sleeping by one or more human occupants.
      (1)   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed for
or occupied by three or more families living independently of each other.
      (2)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied
exclusively for residential purposes by one family.
      (3)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (also known as DUPLEX). A building designed to
be occupied by two families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING GROUP. A group of two or more detached dwellings located on a
parcel of land in one ownership and having any yard or court in common.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed for or used by one family for
living or sleeping purposes, having one kitchen or kitchenette, and maintaining
separate and independent housekeeping.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons, of the use of a strip of land for specific purposes.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. See ADMINISTRATIVE/ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   FAMILY. A person living alone, or two or more persons related by blood,
marriage or adoption, or not more than five unrelated persons, occupying a
single dwelling unit. Such occupancy shall be for non-profit purposes, as
distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel or
motel.
   FILING. Filing with the Lincoln County Clerk unless a different county
official is designated by ordinance.
   FILLING STATION or GAS STATION. Buildings or premises where gasoline,
kerosene or any other motor fuel or lubricating oil or grease for operating
motor vehicles is offered for sale to the public and deliveries are made
directly into motor vehicles, including greasing and oiling on the premises,
but not including major automobile repairs.
   FINAL APPROVAL. The official action of the Planning Commission taken on a
final subdivision plat or development plan after all conditions, engineering
plans and other requirements have been completed or fulfilled and the required
improvements have been installed or guarantees properly posted for their
completion per this chapter.
   FISCAL COURT. The chief legislative body of Lincoln County.
   FLOOR AREA, TOTAL. The area of all floors of a building including finished
attics, finished basements and covered porches.
   FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion nearest
the street right-of-way. The FRONTAGE is the length of the front lot line
measured at the street right-of-way line. For the purpose of determining yard
requirements on corner lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to a
street shall be required to meet FRONTAGE requirements. Yards shall be provided
as discussed later in this section.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or a portion of the principal
building used by the occupants of the premises for the shelter or storage of
vehicles owned or operated by the occupants of the principal building.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or structure used for the parking or temporary
storage of passenger vehicles on an intended profit basis.
   GARAGE, SERVICE STATION. Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil, grease,
batteries, tires, motor vehicle accessories, maps and informational materials,
and food, drink and similar convenience goods for service station customers,
may be supplied and dispensed at retail, and where minor automotive services
may be rendered and sales made. Minor servicing of motor vehicles shall not
include major mechanical and body work, including the storage of automobiles
not in operating condition or other work involving off-site noise, glare,
fumes, smoke or other characteristics.
   GOVERNING BODY. The chief legislative body of Lincoln County (Fiscal Court).
   HEIGHT OF STRUCTURE. The vertical distance measured from the average
finished grade at the front building line to the highest point of a structure
(See BUILDING, HEIGHT OF).
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or profession carried on within a dwelling by
the occupant thereof which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of
the dwelling for residential purposes, permitted as a conditional use in §
154.082, provided that:
      (1)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one non-illuminated sign four square feet in area mounted flat
against the outside wall of the main or accessory building;
      (2)   Such use shall not require structural alterations or involve
construction not customary in dwellings;
      (3)   No more than 25% of the floor area of the dwelling unit shall be
used in the conduct of such home occupation;
      (4)   No traffic generated by such home occupation shall be in greater
volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall meet
the off-street parking requirements as specified in this chapter and shall not
be in the required front yard;
      (5)   A customary home occupation is primarily of a service character
such as:
         (a)   An office or studio of a physician, dentist, artist, lawyer,
engineer, architect, realtor or insurance agent;
         (b)   A teacher, provided that musical instruction is limited to one
pupil at a time;
         (c)   Child care centers, day cares; and
         (d)   Beauty parlors, barber shops, schools of any kind with organized
classes, provided that the display and/or trading of wholesale or retail
merchandise is clearly incidental to the primary service being provided.
      (6)   There shall be no commodities sold except those which are produced
on the premises or as meet conditions otherwise set forth in this definition;
      (7)   No home occupation shall generate off-site noise, vibration, glare,
fumes, odors or electrical interference detectable to normal senses. No
equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any off-site radio or television receivers, or causes off-site fluctuations
in line voltage; and
      (8)   All such home occupations shall require a conditional use permit
and approval of the Board of Adjustment. The Board may attach certain
conditions to its approval which it feels are necessary to preserve and protect
the character of the district in which the proposed use would locate.
   HOME OCCUPATION, AGRICULTURAL. Any occupation as defined in HOME OCCUPATION
which occurs in the residential dwelling on the farm, plus any occupation
conducted in an accessory building in any agricultural zone, provided that:
      (1)   No more than three persons other than members of the family
residing on the premises shall be engaged in such occupation;
      (2)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than one non-illuminated sign, not exceeding eight square feet in area,
and not placed in such a manner as to create a traffic visibility problem or
obstruction; and
      (3)   The use is clearly incidental and subordinate to the land’s
principal agricultural use.
   HOSPITAL or SANITARIUM. An establishment which provides accommodations,
facilities and services over a continuous period of 24 hours or more for
observation, diagnosis and care of two or more individuals suffering from
illness, injury, deformity or abnormality or from any condition requiring
medical services. Convalescent homes and nursing homes shall not be construed
to be included in this definition.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the
general public and providing additional services such as restaurants, meeting
rooms and recreation facilities. Boarding houses, lodging houses and bed and
breakfast facilities shall not be construed to be included in this definition.
   HOUSING OR BUILDING REGULATIONS. Regulations adopted by the local governing
body which regulate housing, building or other safety codes, including, but not
limited to, plumbing and electrical codes, the Kentucky Residential Building
Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings.
   INDUSTRY, HEAVY. Those industries whose processing of products may result in
the emission of atmospheric pollutants, light flashes or glare, odor, noise,
vibration and/or electrical interference which may be heard and/or felt off the
premises, and those industries which constitute a fire or explosion hazard.
   INDUSTRY, LIGHT. Those industries whose processing of products results in
none of the conditions described for heavy industry.
   JUNK YARD. A place where junk, waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled
including auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and
places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment; but not including such uses when conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, and not including pawn shops, and
establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and
household equipment, used cars in operable condition or the processing of used,
discarded or salvaged materials as a minor part of manufacturing operations.
   KENNEL.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL. A compound where three or more dogs over four months of
age are kept and where the owner is actively engaged in buying dogs for resale,
consistently selling offspring of the owner’s dogs, and/or boarding dogs which
are not owned by the owner for compensation.
      (2)   NONCOMMERCIAL. A compound in or adjoining a private residence where
hunting or other dogs are kept for the hobby of the householder or for
protection of the householder’s property. The occasional sale of pups by the
keeper of a noncommercial kennel does not change the character of residential
property.
   KENTUCKY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE. The state building code adopted by local
jurisdictions for the purpose of protecting the health, safety and welfare of
residents in all dwelling units in that jurisdiction; also known as the KRBC.
   LAND USE PLAN. The Plan adopted by the local Planning Commission as a part
of or separate from the Comprehensive Plan proposing the most appropriate,
economic, desirable and feasible patterns for the general location, character,
extent and inter-relationship of a community’s public and private land.
   LIMITED FOOD SERVICE. The preparation and service of food carried on within
a residential unit by the occupant thereof for compensation, provided that such
food service shall not be available to the general public, but shall be
provided to private groups on a pre-arranged basis.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An off-street space logically and conveniently
located for bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to the delivery vehicles
expected to be used, and accessible to such vehicles when required off-street
parking spaces are filled. Such spaces are typically on the same lot with a
building or contiguous to a group of buildings and accessory buildings
providing for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading or
unloading merchandise or materials. Such space shall abut on a street, alley or
other appropriate means of access. Required OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE is not to
be included in off-street parking space or computation of required off-street
parking space. All OFF-STREET LOADING SPACES shall be located totally outside
of any street or alley right-of-way and shall not obstruct the sidewalk in any
way.
   LOCAL INFORMATION SIGN. A sign indicating directions to a local commercial,
industrial or other type establishment.
   LOT. A parcel of land established by plat, subdivision or as otherwise
permitted by law to be used, developed or built upon as a unit. Such LOT shall
be of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage,
area and to provide such yards and open spaces as herein required and shall
have frontage on an improved public street.
      (1)   LOT, CORNER. A lot which abuts on two or more streets at their
intersection or upon two parts of the same street forming an interior angle of
less than 135 degrees.
      (2)   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      (3)   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or
approximately parallel streets; also known as a double-frontage lot.
   LOT AREA. The computed area contained within the lot lines.
   LOT COVERAGE. See COVERAGE.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE. See FRONTAGE.
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding a lot.
      (1)   LOT LINE, FRONT. The property line separating the lot front and the
street.
      (2)   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the
front lot line.
      (3)   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A
side lot line separating a lot from a street is called a SIDE STREET LOT LINE.
A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an INTERIOR
SIDE LOT LINE.
   LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF. The area of a lot computed exclusively of any portion
of the right-of-way of any public or private street.
   LOT WIDTH. The average width of the lot measured at right angles to its
depth.
   LOT OF RECORD. Recorded lot on file in the County Court Clerk’s Office.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. See §§
154.145 through
154.150 for definitions of manufactured homes.
   MAP. A map of the jurisdiction indicating district boundaries according to
this chapter; also known as zoning map or zoning atlas.
   MOBILE HOME or TRAILER. See definitions relating to manufactured and mobile
homes and trailers in §§
154.145 through
154.150.
   MOBILE HOME, TRAILER or MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. An area of land upon which
two or more occupied mobile homes are placed, either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and which is constructed in compliance with the standards of
this chapter as specified in §§
154.145 through
154.150, and which must consist of a minimum of ten acres. In an A-1 Zone,
multiple MOBILE HOMES placed on a single tract of land at a density no greater
than one unit per one acre for an immediate family member and as detailed in §
154.147(A) shall not be classified as a MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MUNICIPAL/COUNTY AUTHORITY. The Lincoln County Fiscal Court.
   NONCONFORMING USE OR STRUCTURE. An activity or a building, sign, structure
or a portion thereof which lawfully existed before the adoption or amendment of
the zoning ordinance, but which does not conform to all of the regulations
contained in the zoning ordinance which pertain to the zone in which it is
located. See §§
154.060 through
154.063.
   OPEN SPACE. Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and
set aside, dedicated, designated or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment of owners and occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such open
space. Such areas may be improved with only those buildings, structures,
recreation facilities, streets and off-street parking and other improvements
that are designed to be incidental to the natural openness of the land.
   PARKING SPACE. A space with a minimum rectangular dimension of not less than
nine feet in width and 19 feet in length for 90-degree parking. See §§
154.165 through
154.172 for more detail regarding standards and requirements for off-street
parking, loading and unloading.
   PLAN. The provisions for development of a planned unit development including
a plat of subdivision, all covenants relating to use, location and bulk of
buildings and other structures, intensity of use or density of development,
private streets, ways and parking facilities, common open space and public
facilities. The phrase “provisions of the plan” when used in this chapter shall
mean the written and graphic materials referred to in this definition.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area with specified minimum contiguous acreage
of five acres to be developed as a single entity according to a plan containing
one or more residential clusters, which may include commercial, public or
quasi-public uses in such ranges of ratios of nonresidential uses to
residential uses as shall be specified in the zoning ordinance (§§
154.205 through
154.213) primarily for the benefit of the residential development.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission,
established pursuant to KRS Chapter 100.
   PLAT. A map or maps of a subdivision showing lot lines therein and
fulfilling the requirements of the locally adopted subdivision regulations.
   PORTABLE/TEMPORARY SAWMILL. Any sawmill meeting the definition for SAWMILL
contained in this chapter, but which only operates on a limited basis or is
only in a location for a limited period of time. The limit of use and/or period
of time to be determined pursuant to the conditions placed on same by the Board
of Adjustments.
   PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE. A use which is permitted outright in a district for
which a zoning certificate may be issued by the Administrative Official in
accordance with the provisions of the ordinance.
   PRINCIPAL USE OF STRUCTURE. The primary use of the land or the main
structure on a lot which determines the primary activity that takes place on
the land or in the structure.
   PRELIMINARY APPROVAL. The conferral of certain rights, pursuant to this
chapter and the adopted subdivision regulations, prior to final approval after
specific elements of a subdivision plat have been agreed upon by the Planning
Commission.
   PREMISES. A lot or other tract of land under one ownership and all the
structures on it.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. An open space area conveyed or otherwise dedicated to a
municipality, municipal agency, board of education, state or county agency, or
other public body for recreational or conservation uses.
   QUASI-PUBLIC USE. Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other public facilities of an educational, religious, charitable,
philanthropic or related non-profit nature.
   RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER. An area developed as a single entity according to a
plan containing residential housing units in which the individual lots have a
common or public open space area.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any unit designed for use by one family for living
purposes being self-contained, and being either in a detached, semi-detached,
attached multi-family or multi-story structure.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway itself, the RIGHT-OF-WAY normally incorporates the
curbs, lawn strips, sidewalks, lighting and drainage facilities, and may
include special features as required by topography or treatment such as grade
separation, landscaped areas, viaducts and bridges.
   SAWMILL. A facility where logs are cut into lumber of boards.
   SETBACK LINE. The distance between a given lot line, easement or right-of-
way line and any structure: front, rear or side as specified.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway which is
improved for the use of pedestrian traffic.
   SIGNS. See §§
154.185 through
154.191.
   SITE PLAN. A development plan of one or more lots on which is typically
shown the existing and proposed topography of the lots, the location of all
existing and proposed buildings, drives, parking spaces, means of ingress and
egress, drainage facilities, landscaping, structures and signs, lighting,
screening devices and any other information that may be reasonably required in
order to make an informed decision.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which provides a public means of vehicular and
pedestrian access to abutting property. The term STREET shall include avenue,
drive, circle, road, parkway, boulevard, highway, thoroughfare or any other
similar term. The right-of-way limits of any STREET shall include the street
pavement, curb and gutter (or open ditches) and may provide space for the
location of utilities. The right-of-way limits of any STREET shall be
coincidental to the property line of the adjacent or the abutting lot.
      (1)   ARTERIALS. ARTERIAL STREETS rank second in the classification of
streets, and are primarily for through traffic, carrying heavy loads and large
volumes of traffic, usually on a continuous route. Access to abutting
properties, if permitted, should be provided by means of a marginal access
street in order to serve several abutting properties, rather than provide each
abutting property its own individual access thereto. ARTERIAL STREETS are the
link between expressways and collector streets, and generally rank next to
expressways in traffic volume, speed limit control and right-of-way limits.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREETS. COLLECTOR STREETS rank third in the
classification of streets, and they are principally used for vehicular
movement; however, access to abutting properties is planned and controlled so
that minimum disturbance is made to the traffic flow on said collector street.
COLLECTORS are the link between arterial and minor streets, and generally rank
next to minor streets in right-of-way lengths and speed control. COLLECTOR
STREETS typically include the principle entrance and circulation routes within
residential subdivisions.
      (3)   EXPRESSWAYS. EXPRESSWAYS rank first in the classification of
streets and are used only for vehicular movement without access to abutting
properties. Interchange of traffic between EXPRESSWAYS and other streets (only
arterial streets when possible) is accomplished by grade separated interchange
with merging deceleration and acceleration lanes.
      (4)   MINOR OR LOCAL STREETS. MINOR STREETS rank fourth in the
classification of streets and are used primarily for providing access to
abutting properties. Vehicular movement on minor streets should have an origin
or destination in the immediate vicinity, whereas all types of through-traffic
should be eliminated. MINOR STREETS are the primary link between generator
points (homes, offices, stores and the like) and collector streets. MINOR
STREETS require the least amount of vehicular movement and may be further
classified into five categories as follows:
         (a)   ALLEYS. ALLEYS are streets generally having two open ends with
each end connecting to different streets. Such streets generally provide
service and access to the rear of abutting properties on both sides.
         (b)   CONTINUING STREETS. CONTINUING STREETS are minor streets having
two open ends; each end generally correcting with different streets. One or
more streets may intersect such a street between its two open ends, and
property abuts both sides of such a street.
         (c)   CUL-DE-SACS. CUL-DE-SACS are minor streets having only one open
end providing access to another street, and a closed end providing a turn-
around circle for vehicular movement. No streets of this type shall dead-end at
the closed end, unless future plans provide for its continuation to an open end
or a turn-around circle. Temporary turn-around circles may be required when
deemed necessary by the Commission.
         (d)   LOOP STREETS. LOOP STREETS are minor streets having two open
ends, each generally connecting with the same street. No other streets
intersect between its two ends and property abuts on both sides thereof.
         (e)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS are minor
streets generally having two or more access points to the major street system
by connecting to a street of higher classification. Property abuts only one
side of such a street whereas the other side thereof should generally be
parallel and adjacent to a street of higher classification. MARGINAL ACCESS
STREETS are sometimes called ACCESS OR FRONTAGE ROADS.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs, in the
supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or
girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or made, the use of which requires permanent
location in or on the ground or attachment of something having a permanent
location in or on the ground, including buildings and signs.
   SUBDIVISION. 
      (1)   The division of a parcel of land into three or more lots or parcels
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale, lease or building
development, or if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land;
provided that a division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or parcels
of five acres or more and not involving a new street shall not be deemed a
SUBDIVISION.
      (2)   The term includes RE-SUBDIVISION, and when appropriate to the
context, shall relate to the process of subdivision or to the land subdivided.
      (3)   Any division or redivision of land into parcels of less than one
acre occurring within 12 months following the division of the same land shall
be deemed a SUBDIVISION within the meaning of this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS. The regulations governing the subdivision of land
within the county and as adopted by the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning
Commission.
   TRAILER. See definitions relating to manufactured and mobile homes and
trailers in §§
154.145 through
154.150.
   VARIANCE, DIMENSIONAL. A departure from the terms of the zoning regulations
pertaining to height or width of structures and size of yards and open spaces,
where such departures will not be contrary to the public interest, and where,
owing to conditions peculiar to the property because of its size, shape or
topography and not as a result of actions of the applicant, the literal
enforcement of the zoning regulations would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship. Such departure requires approval of the Board of Adjustment.
   YARD. An open space or lot other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   YARD, FRONT. The portion of the yard extending the full width of
the lot and extending between the front lot line and the nearest part of the
principal building.
      (2)   YARD, REAR. The portion of the lot extending the full width of the
lot and extending between the rear lot line and the nearest part of the
principal building.
      (3)   YARD, SIDE. The portions of the yard extending from the nearest
part of the principal building to the side lot line.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005; Ord. passed 9-10-2013; Ord. 9.8.15, passed 9-8-2015)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.020 ADMINISTRATIVE/ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   Provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by an Administrative/
Enforcement Officer who may be designated as provided in §
154.009 and per KRS 100.271 to administer said ordinance. The Administrative/
Enforcement Officer may request and shall receive, so far as may be necessary
in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and cooperation of the
County Sheriff’s Office in enforcing orders, of the County Attorney in
prosecuting violations, and of other officials.
   (B)   The Administrative/Enforcement Officer may be authorized to issue
building permits and/or certificates of occupancy in accordance with the
literal terms of this chapter, but shall not have the power to permit any
construction, or to permit any use or any change of use which does not conform
to the literal terms of this chapter.
   (C)   The primary duties of the Administrative/Enforcement Officer shall be
as follows.
      (1)   Accurate records shall be kept in a permanent file for the issuance
of building permits, inspections, violations, stop orders, condemnations and
other permits and actions as required.
      (2)   Upon finding that any provisions of this chapter are being
violated, the person or persons responsible for such violation shall be
notified by the Administrative/Enforcement Officer through hand delivery or
registered mail ordering the discontinuation of any illegal use of land,
buildings and/or structures.
      (3)    Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to
occur, any person may submit a complaint, in writing, to the Administrative/
Enforcement Officer. The Officer shall record such complaints and shall follow
up on such report within five working days. The Officer shall then respond to
the complainant and those responsible for the violation, if applicable, in
writing within ten working days of the formal complaint.
      (4)   All actions shall be taken as authorized by this chapter and KRS
Chapter 100 to ensure compliance with or to prevent violations of this chapter,
including the issuance of stop-work orders and orders to remove or discontinue
use of illegal structures and/or land uses.
   (D)   Any permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter
shall be null and void.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.021 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or the
construction of any building, excluding accessory buildings or to commence the
moving, alteration or demolition of any building, until the Administrative/
Enforcement Officer has issued a building permit for such work, and a permit
has been issued for a septic system by the County Health Department.
   (B)   Building permits shall be required for all structures conforming with
the definition of “building,” as defined in §
154.009, and must conform with the Building Inspection order of the county.
   (C)   No building permit shall be required in the following cases:
      (1)   Recurring maintenance work;
      (2)   Installation of required improvements (i.e., streets, utilities,
sidewalks, grading, drainage and the like) according to an approved subdivision
plat; or
      (3)   Accessory buildings not attached to a principal building.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.022 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application. In applying to the Administrative/Enforcement Officer for
a building permit, the applicant shall submit a site plan along with the
application, drawn to scale, showing the dimensions of the lot to be built
upon, the locations and outside dimensions of all structures to be constructed
or altered and all existing structures, the use of structures, yard depths and
any other information necessary for determining compliance with this order. The
appropriate Municipal Water Company, applicable rural water district, or the
County Health Department’s certification approving proposed water and/or
sewerage facilities must accompany applications as per §
154.129, except where such lot is a part of an approved subdivision and on a
public sewage treatment system.
   (B)   Issuance. If the proposed construction or alteration conforms with all
applicable ordinances, regulations and codes, the Administrative/Enforcement
Officer shall issue a building permit authorizing such construction or
alteration. If proposed construction or alteration fails to conform the
Administrative/Enforcement Officer shall refuse to issue a building permit and
shall cause delivery of written notice to the applicant stating the reasons for
refusal. The Administrative/Enforcement Officer shall act upon applications for
building permits within two weeks from the date of their submission.
   (C)   Restraint of construction without permit. If no building permit has
been issued and a builder begins or continues to build, a restraining order may
be obtained upon application to the proper court of record. Evidence of the
lack of a building permit shall establish a prima-facie case for the issuance
of the restraining order.
   (D)   Validity. The issuance of a building permit shall not waive any
provisions of this regulation.
   (E)   Duration. A building permit shall become void 12 months from the date
of issuance unless substantial progress has been made by that date on the
construction or alteration authorized therein. A building permit may be renewed
after 12 months at one-half fee, and one-half fee shall be returned if
cancelled in 30 days. If the work described in any building permit has not been
substantially completed within two years of the date of issuance thereof, said
permit shall expire and be revoked by the Administrative Official and written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice
that further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed unless
and until a new building permit has been obtained.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.023 ENFORCEMENT BY COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission may bring action for all appropriate relief
including injunctions against any governmental bodies or any person who
violates the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.024 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Correction period. All violations of this chapter shall be corrected
within a period of 30 days after the order to correct is issued by the
Administrative/Enforcement Officer or in such longer period of time, not
exceeding six months, as the Administrative/Enforcement Officer may determine.
A violation not corrected within the allowed time for correction shall be
reported to the County Attorney who shall initiate prosecution procedures.
   (B)   Violation a misdemeanor. Every person, corporation or firm who
violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with any provision of
this chapter or any permit, license or exception granted hereunder, or any
lawful order of the Administrative/Enforcement Officer, the Board of
Adjustment, the Planning Commission, the City Council, or the Fiscal Court
issued in pursuance of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Remedies. The Administrative/Enforcement Officer, the Board of
Adjustment, the Planning Commission, the Fiscal Court or any interested party
may institute an injunction, mandamus, abatement or other appropriate
proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.025 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Fiscal Court shall establish schedules of fees, charges and expenses and
a collection procedure for building permits, certificates of occupancy, appeals
and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The schedules of fees shall be
posted in the offices of the Administrative/Enforcement Officers, and may be
altered or amended only by official action of the appropriate legislative body.
Until all applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full, no
action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 154.040 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD.
   (A)   A Board of Adjustment shall be established before the county zoning
ordinance shall be legally enforced. The Board established shall consist of
three, five or seven citizen members, two of whom may be citizen members of the
Planning Commission from the appropriate jurisdiction. A CITIZEN MEMBER means
any member of the Planning Commission or Board of Adjustment who is not also an
elected or appointed official or employee of the county. The term of office for
members of the Board shall be four years, but the term of office of members
first appointed shall be staggered so that a proportionate number serve one,
two, three and four years respectively. One year appointments shall be made in
May of each year by the Judge/Executive. Vacancies on the Boards shall be
filled within 60 days by the respective legislative body. If the Judge/
Executive fails to act within that time, the Planning Commission shall fill the
vacancy. When a vacancy occurs other than through expiration of the term of
office, it shall be filled for the remainder of that term.
   (B)   All members of the Boards shall, before entering upon their duties,
qualify by taking the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the Constitution of
the Commonwealth before a judge, county judge/executive, notary public, clerk
of a court or justice of the peace of the county.
   (C)   Reimbursement for expenses or compensation or both may be authorized
for members of the Board.
   (D)   Any member of the Boards may be removed by the appointing authority
for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance or conflict of interest. The
appointing authority, who exercises the power to remove a Board member, shall
submit a written statement to the Planning Commission setting forth the reasons
for removal and the statement shall be read at the next meeting of the Board of
Adjustment. The member so removed shall have the right of appeal to the Circuit
Court of the county.
   (E)   The Boards shall annually elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson and
any other officer it deems necessary. Any officer shall be eligible for re-
election at the expiration of his or her term.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.041 MEETINGS OF BOARD, QUORUM, MINUTES, BYLAWS.
   (A)   The Board shall conduct meetings at the call of the Chairperson who
shall give written or oral notice to all members of the Board at least seven
days prior to the meeting which notice shall contain the date, time and place
for the meeting, and the subject or subjects which will be discussed.
   (B)   A simple majority of the total membership, as established by
regulation or agreement, shall constitute a quorum. Any member of the Board who
has any direct or indirect financial interest in the outcome of any question
before the body shall disclose the nature of the interest and shall disqualify
himself or herself from voting on the question.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of business and shall
keep minutes and records of all proceedings, including regulations,
transactions, findings and determinations and the number of votes for and
against each question, and if any member is absent or abstains from voting,
indicating the fact, all of which shall, immediately after adoption, be filed
in the office of the Board. If the Board has no office, such records may be
kept in custody of an officer of the Board and shall be available to the
general public. A transcript of the minutes of the Board shall be provided if
requested by a party, at the expense of the requesting party, and the
transcript shall constitute the record.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.042 OTHER RIGHTS AND POWERS OF BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment may employ or contract with planners or other
persons as it deems necessary to accomplish its assigned duties.
   (B)   The Board shall have the power to issue subpoenas to compel witnesses
to attend its meetings and give evidence bearing upon the questions before it.
The Sheriff shall serve such subpoenas. The Circuit Court may, upon application
by the Board, compel obedience to such court or such subpoena by proceedings of
contempt.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the Board, or in his or her absence, the Acting
Chairperson, shall have the power to administer an oath to witnesses prior to
their testifying before the Board on any issue.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.043 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide applications for
conditional use permits to allow the proper integration into the community of
uses which are specifically named in the zoning ordinance and which may be
suitable only in specific locations in the district and only if certain
conditions are met.
   (A)   The Board may approve, modify or deny any application for a
conditional use permit. Before granting any such permits, the Board is required
to consider the comments of all adjoining property owners. If it approves such
permit it may attach necessary conditions such as time limitations,
requirements that one or more things be done before the request can be
initiated, or conditions of a continuing nature. Any such conditions shall be
recorded in the Board’s minutes and on the conditional use permit, along with a
reference to the specific section in the zoning ordinance listing the
conditional use under consideration. The Board shall have power to revoke
conditional use permits, or variances, for noncompliance with the condition
thereof. Furthermore, the Board shall have a right of action to compel
offending structures or uses removed at the cost of the violator and may have
judgment in person for such cost.
   (B)   Granting of a conditional use permit does not exempt the applicant
from complying with all of the requirements of building, housing and other
regulations.
   (C)   In any case where a conditional use permit has not been exercised
within the time limit set by the Board, or within one year, if no specific time
limit has been set, such conditional use permit shall not revert to its
original designation unless there has been a public hearing. EXERCISED, as set
forth in this section, shall mean that binding contracts for the construction
of the main building or other improvement has been let; or in the absence of
contracts that the main building or other improvement is under construction to
a substantial degree, or that prerequisite conditions involving substantial
investment shall be under contract, in development, or completed. When
construction is not a part of the use, EXERCISED shall mean that the use is in
operation in compliance with the conditions as set forth in the permit.
   (D)   The Administrative/Enforcement Officer shall review all conditional
use permits, except those for which all conditions have been permanently
satisfied, at least once annually and shall have the power to inspect title
land or structure where the conditional use is located in order to ascertain
that the landowner is complying with all of the conditions which are listed on
the conditional use permit If the landowner is not complying with all of the
conditions which are listed on the conditional use permit, the Administrative/
Enforcement Officer shall state conditions on the conditional use permit, and
copy of the report shall be furnished to the landowner at the same time that it
is furnished to the Chairperson of the Board. If the Board finds that the facts
alleged in the report of the Administrative/Enforcement Officer are true and
that the landowner has taken no steps to comply with them between the date of
the report and the date of the hearing, the Board may authorize the
Administrative/Enforcement Officer to revoke the conditional use permit and
take the necessary legal action to cause the termination of the activity on the
land which the conditional use permit authorizes.
   (E)   Once the Board has approved a conditional use permit and all the
conditions required are of such type that they can be completely and
permanently satisfied, the Administrative/Enforcement Officer, upon request of
the applicant, may, if the facts warrant, make a determination that the
conditions have been satisfied, and enter the facts which indicate that the
conditions have been satisfied and the conclusion in the margin of the copy of
the conditional use permit which is on file with the County Clerk, as required
in KRS 100.237. Thereafter, said use, if it continues to meet the other
requirements of the regulations, will be treated as a permitted use.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.044 DIMENSIONAL VARIANCE.
   (A)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide on applications for
dimensional variances where, by reason of the exceptional narrowness,
shallowness or unusual shape of a site on the effective date of this chapter,
or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions, or some other extraordinary
situation or condition of that site, the literal enforcement of the dimensional
requirements (height or width of building or size of yards, but not population
density) of this chapter would deprive the applicant of reasonable capacity to
make use of the land in a manner equivalent to the use permitted other
landowners in the same district. The Board may impose any reasonable conditions
or restrictions on any variance it decides to grant.
   (B)   Before any variance is granted, the Board must find all of the
following, which shall be recorded along with any imposed conditions or
restrictions in its minutes and records and issued in written form to the
applicant to constitute proof of the dimensional variance.
      (1)   The specific conditions in detail which are unique to the
applicant’s land and which do not exist on other land in the same zone.
      (2)   The manner in which the strict application of the provisions of the
ordinance would deprive the applicant of a reasonable use of the land in the
manner equivalent to the use permitted other landowners in the same zone.
      (3)   The unique conditions and circumstances are not the result of
actions of the applicant taken subsequent to the adoption of the ordinance.
      (4)   Reasons that the variance will preserve, not harm, the public
safety and welfare and will not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood.
      (5)   Consideration of all adjoining property owner’s comments regarding
the variance request.
   (C)   The Board shall not possess the power to grant a variance to permit a
use of any land, building or structure which is not permitted by the ordinance
in the district in question, or to alter density requirements in the district
in question.
   (D)   A dimensional variance applies to the property for which it is
granted, and not to the individual who applied for it. A variance also runs
with the land and is transferable to any future owner of the land, but it
cannot be transferred by the applicant to a different site.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.045 RECORDING OF VARIANCES AND CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   All variances and conditional use permits approved by the Board of
Adjustment shall be recorded at the expense of the applicant in the Office of
the County Court Clerk.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.046 EXISTING NONCONFORMING USE, CONTINUANCE, CHANGE.
   (A)   The lawful use of a building or premises, existing at the time of the
adoption of this chapter affecting it may be continued, although such use does
not conform to the provisions of such regulation, except as otherwise provided
herein. (See §§
154.060 through
154.063 for details.)
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall not allow the enlargement or extension
of a nonconforming use beyond the scope and area of its operation at the time
this chapter, which makes its use nonconforming, was adopted, nor shall the
Board permit a change from one nonconforming use to any other nonconforming
use.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.047 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW
   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide cases where it is alleged
by an applicant that there is error in any order, requirement, decision, grant
or refusal made by the Administrative/Enforcement Official in the enforcement
of this chapter. A request for review shall be taken within 30 days after the
applicant or his agent receives notice of the action alleged to be in error.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.048 PROCEDURE FOR ALL APPEALS TO BOARD.
   (A)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person, or entity, claiming
to be injuriously affected or aggrieved by an official action or decision of
any officer enforcing this chapter. Such appeal shall be taken within 30 days
after the appellant or his or her agent receives notice of the action appealed
from by filing with said officer and with the appropriate Board a notice of
appeal specifying the grounds thereof, and giving notice of such appeal to any
and all parties of record. Said officer shall forthwith transmit to the Board
all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken and shall be treated as and be the respondent in such further
proceedings. At any hearing by the Board any interested person may appear and
enter his or her appearance, and all shall be given opportunity to be heard.
   (B)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal and give
public notice in accordance with KRS Chapter 424, as well as written notice to
the appellant and the Administrative/Enforcement Official at least one week
prior to the hearing, and shall decide it within 60 days. The affected party
may appear at the hearing in person or by attorney.
   (C)   Any person or entity claiming to be injured or aggrieved by any final
action of the Planning Commission or Board of Adjustments may appeal from the
action to the circuit court of the county in which the land lies.
   (D)   All appeals shall be taken in the circuit court within 30 days after
the action or decision of the Planning Commission or Board of Adjustment and
all decisions which have not been appealed within 30 days shall become final.
After the appeal is taken, the procedure shall be governed by the rules of
civil procedure. When an appeal has been filed, the Clerk of the Circuit Court
shall issue a summons to all parties, including the Planning Commission in all
cases, and shall cause it to be delivered for service as in any other law
action.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
NONCONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES AND USES
§ 154.060 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to permit nonconforming lots, structures
and/or uses to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their
survival. It is further the intent of this chapter that nonconformities shall
not be enlarged upon, expanded, extended or be used as grounds for adding
structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.061 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a
single-family dwelling and permitted accessory uses, including manufactured and
certified mobile homes as permitted in §§
154.145 through
154.150, may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter. Such lot must be in separate ownership
and not of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership.
   (B)   This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the
requirements for area and width or both that are generally applicable in the
district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements other than those
applying to area or width or both of the lot shall conform to the regulations
for the district in which such lot is located. Variance of yard requirements
shall be obtained only through action of the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.062 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Nonconforming structures and uses shall be allowed to continue to exist as
per KRS 100.253 as follows.
   (A)   The lawful use of a building or premises, existing at the time of
adoption of any zoning regulations affecting it may be continued, although such
use does not conform to the provisions of such regulations.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall not allow the enlargement or extension
of a nonconforming use beyond the scope and area of its operation at the time
the regulation which makes its use nonconforming was adopted, nor shall the
Board permit a change from one nonconforming use to another unless the new
nonconforming is in the same or in a more restrictive classification.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.063 ORDINARY REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Work may be done on ordinary repair and maintenance, or on repair or
replacement of non-load-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition a building or other structure in accordance
with the order of an appropriate public agency which declares such building or
other structure to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe condition.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 154.075 GENERAL REGULATION.
   No land shall be used or occupied and no structure shall be erected,
altered, used or occupied except for the principal uses permitted for each of
the four zoning districts created by this chapter together with lawfully
permitted conditional uses and/or accessory uses as listed in the following
sections of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.076 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The official county zoning map shall be identified by the signature of
the County Judge/Executive, attested by the County Clerk and bear the seal of
the county under the following words:
“This is to certify that this is the county zoning map referred to §
154.076 of the county zoning ordinance adopted by Lincoln County Fiscal Court.”
   (B)   No changes shall be made in the county zoning map except in conformity
with the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   If the county zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult
to interpret, the Fiscal Court, as appropriate, may, by resolution, adopt a new
county zoning map.
      (1)   The new map may correct original drafting errors or other errors or
omissions but the corrections shall not be in effect amendments of the original
map, including amendments thereto.
      (2)   A replacement map shall also contain the following additional
words:
         “This map supersedes and replaces the county zoning map adopted (date
of adoption of the map being replaced).”
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.077 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Boundaries of districts established under provisions of this chapter
are shown on the county zoning map on file in the office of the County Clerk,
Stanford, Kentucky.
   (B)   Boundaries of districts shown on the county zoning map shall be
interpreted as follows.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, alleys, railroad tracks shall be construed to follow such
lines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following plotted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following county boundaries
shall be construed as following such corporation or county line.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following shore lines shall
be construed to follow such shore lines, and in the event of a change in the
shore line shall be construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries
indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streams, rivers, lakes
or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
      (5)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) above, shall be so construed.
Distances shall be determined by the scale of the county zoning map unless
specifically shown on the map.
   (C)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by (B)(1) through (B)(5) above concerning the exact location of any
district boundary line or portion thereof, the location of such district
boundary or portion thereof shall be determined by the Board of Adjustment.
   (D)   Where a district boundary line on the county zoning map divides a lot
of single ownership which was recorded at the time of enactment of this
chapter, the Board of Adjustment may permit the extension of the regulations
for either portion of the lot a distance not to exceed 50 feet into the
remaining portion of the lot.
   (E)   Whenever any street, alley, public way or public easement is vacated
through legal action, the abutting districts shall be extended, depending on
the land to which the vacated lands revert.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.078 LANDFILLS.
   Landfills, or other form of refuse/garbage areas shall not be permitted in
any zone within the unincorporated areas of the county unless a valid permit is
issued from the state and approved by Fiscal Court.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.079 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   The following zoning district classifications are established for the
county:
   (A)   A-1 Agricultural District;
   (B)   R-1 Residential - Single-Family District;
   (C)   R-2 Residential - Single- and Multi-Family;
   (D)   C/PO Commercial/Professional District (Mixed Use); and
   (E)   I-I Industrial - Light Industrial District.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.080 EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED USES IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Exterior storage of non-operating or non-licensed vehicles. No person
in charge of or in control of premises, whether as owner, lessee, tenant,
occupant or otherwise shall allow any partially dismantled, wrecked, junked,
discarded or otherwise non-operating motor vehicle to remain on such property
longer than ten days; except that this section shall not apply to historic
motor vehicles registered and licensed in conformance with KRS 186.043,
property where such use is allowed under zoning ordinances, or other applicable
laws, or to any vehicle in an enclosed building or so located upon the premises
as not to be readily visible from any public place or from any surrounding
private property. This section shall further not apply with regard to any
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place,
other than in a residential district, and operated in a lawful manner, when the
keeping or maintenance of such vehicle is necessary to the operation of such
business enterprise; or with regard to a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the county
government or any other public agency or entity. Nothing in this chapter shall
be taken to lessen the requirements of the county nuisance ordinance (
Chapter 91 of this code of ordinances) and when this chapter is in conflict,
the stricter of the two shall prevail.
   (B)   Duty of maintenance of private property. No person owning, leasing,
occupying or having charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance
thereon, nor shall any such person keep or maintain such premises in a manner
causing substantial diminution in the value of the other property in the
neighborhood in which such persons are located. Nuisances shall consist of, but
shall not be limited to, abandoned buildings, abandoned mobile homes and
garbage dumps.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.081 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A-1).
   (A)   The intent of the Agricultural District is to preserve, promote and
protect the rural character of the land, including agricultural uses,
significant natural features, wooded areas, the watercourses and to minimize
erosion of soil, siltation and pollution of streams and lakes.
   (B)   The purpose of A-1 Districts is to preserve agricultural endeavors and
open space within the county.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Land used exclusively for agriculture, farming, dairying, stock
raising;
         (b)   Horticultural services;
         (c)   Hunting, trapping, game preserves, forestry;
         (d)   Single-family detached dwellings;
         (e)   Approved manufactured/mobile homes; and
         (f)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (2)   Permitted accessory uses.
         (a)   Accessory uses in connection with agriculture, farming,
dairying, stock raising or similar uses, such as tenant homes, agriculture
structures, stables and parking areas;
         (b)   Roadside stands offering for sale only agricultural products
grown on the premises;
         (c)   Keeping of roomers or boarders by a resident family; and
         (d)   Swimming pools and tennis courts for private use.
      (3)   Conditional uses. The following uses are special exceptions and
require written approval of the Board of Adjustment; and the Board may attach
certain conditions to its approval which it feels are necessary to preserve and
protect the agricultural character of the district in which the proposed use
would locate:
         (a)   Hospitals, nursing homes, convalescent homes, rest homes,
orphanages, rehabilitation homes;
         (b)   Sewage disposal plants and water treatment plants;
         (c)   Extraction of crude petroleum or natural gas; extraction,
storing and processing or minerals or raw materials;
         (d)   Veterinarian clinics;
         (e)   Agricultural home occupations as defined in §
154.009;
         (f)   Recreational facilities, including playgrounds, golf courses,
country clubs, sportsman’s farms, riding stables, fishing lakes and private
clubs, restaurants for private clubs, horse training track;
         (g)   Mobile home and recreational vehicle parks;
         (h)   Additional mobile homes used as dwelling units by members of
farm owner’s immediate family or full-time employees of the farm owner,
provided that prior approval of the sanitary waste disposal system is granted
by the County Health Department and provided that the “setback” requirements of
the zoning district are met, and further provided that no division of such lot
shall occur from the “parent farm” at a density greater than one unit per one
acre;
         (i)   Portable/temporary/part-time sawmill, that meet the following
conditions:
            1.   Must have no more than three employees;
            2.   Must be located on a site containing a minimum of ten acres;
            3.   Must be located on property outside the Cedar Creek Watershed;
            4.   All sawmill operations must be located at least 150 feet from
any public road right-of-way and at least 100 feet from the property line of
any adjoining property owners, and at least 200 feet from any residence on any
adjoining property;
            5.   No burning of slabs, sawdust or other debris is allowed on the
property;
            6.   All slabs, sawdust and other debris must be substantially
removed from the sawmill property at least once per year, and any sawmill that
will be temporarily located on property owned by someone other than the owner
of the sawmill machinery, the slabs, sawdust and other debris shall be
completely removed from the property within 30 days of sawmill operations
ceasing on said property;
            7.   All entrances and exits to and from the sawmill property must
be at least 50 feet in width, with culverts extended a minimum of five feet on
each side of the entrance or exit roadway, and said roadways used for entrance
or exit to the sawmill operations must be covered with an impervious surface,
white rock or creek rock for at least 40 feet from the impervious surface of
the road on which they adjoin or 40 feet from the right-of-way of the road they
adjoin;
            8.   If a temporary sawmill is set up on property not owned by the
owner of the sawmill machinery, the road requirements may be lessened only if
all of the logs to be sawed are harvested on the property owned by the same
entities on which the sawmill machinery is located. These requirements shall
not apply if all of the logs to be sawed are harvested from the property on
which the sawmill machinery is set up;
            9.   A sawmill will be deemed “temporary” if it is set up on
property not owned by the owner of the sawmill machinery, and it is only to be
operated for the purpose of sawing lumber from timber harvested on property
owned by the entity which owns the property on which the sawmill is located,
and the sawmill machinery will be removed within 30 days of the ceasing of
operations of a sawmill. In the case of a “temporary” sawmill operation, no
conditional use permit will be required, but the owner of the property shall
notify the County Planning and Zoning Office of the operation of such a
“temporary” sawmill; and
            10.   Nothing contained herein shall impose conditions on property
owners sawing logs harvested on their property where the owner of the property
also owns the sawmill machinery.
         (j)   Family owned, family operated commercial or industrial uses,
with the exception of sawmills, that meet all of the following conditions:
            1.   Must be totally owned and operated by the owner occupant(s) of
the property;
            2.   Must have no more than ten employees in addition to the owners
of the property and/or their immediate family members;
            3.   Must be located on a site containing a minimum of 30 acres;
and
            4.   Must involve agricultural products that can be produced either
on the subject property or in the local community, and consist of processing
that adds value to those products; and may include on site retail sales of the
finished products.
         (k)   Temporary mobile or portable sawmills which are utilized by the
property owner to cut his or her own logs into lumber or boards, which logs are
produced from trees grown solely on the owner’s property, shall not require a
conditional use permit; provided, however, said temporary sawmill must be
removed from the owner’s property within one year after the date it is
originally set up on said property.
      (4)   Development standards (A-1).
 General Cedar Creek Watershed
                                  General          Cedar Creek Watershed
On septic
   Minimum lot area            1 acre           5 acres
   Minimum road frontage       50 feet          200 feet
   Min. width at building line 100 feet         175 feet
   Minimum front yard*         60 feet          80 feet
   Minimum side yard (each side25 feet          35 feet
   Minimum rear yard*          50 feet          60 feet
On public sewer
   Minimum lot area            1/2 acre         NA
   Minimum road frontage       50 feet          NA
   Minimum width at building li60 feet          NA
   Minimum front yard*         35 feet          NA
   Minimum side yard (each side15 feet          NA
   Minimum rear yard*          25 feet          NA
Maximum building height           NA               NA
                                  See §§         See §§
Signs                             154.185 through  154.185 through
                                  154.191          154.191
                                  See §§         See §§
Parking                           154.165 through  154.165 through
                                  154.172          154.172
NOTE: see §§
154.105 through
154.108 for special agricultural exemptions.
*Minimum side and rear yard requirements measured from the property line on
all sides. Front yard setbacks are measured from the public road right-of-
way.
For all parcels in excess of ten acres in all agricultural zones outside the
Cedar Creek Watershed area shall be subject to the above standards, except
that the required frontage may be reduced to the minimum right-of-way allowed
in §
153.36 for construction of a public street.
 
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005; Ord. 9.8.15, passed 9-8-2015; Ord. passed 9-10-2013;
Ord. 9.14.21, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 154.082 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The purpose of residential districts is to establish and preserve single-
and multi-family home neighborhoods as desired by large numbers of people free
from other uses except those which are both compatible with and convenient to
the residents of such a district.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.083 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1).
   (A)   The residential classification is intended for housing in conformance
with the future land use map, County Comprehensive Plan. The principal land use
in this district is for residential dwellings and for associated religious,
recreational, educational and public facilities necessary to provide for a
balanced and attractive residential areas. Lands in this district are intended
to be protected from encroachment of uses detrimental to and not performing a
function appropriate to the residential environment.
   (B)   Property values are stabilized and orderly growth promoted by
providing adequate light, air and open space and through consideration of
proper function relationships of each permitted use.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Detached single-family dwellings; and
         (b)   Approved manufactured/mobile homes.
      (2)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and buildings may be permitted only
as customarily incidental to any of the permitted and conditional uses listed
above; provided that such accessory uses shall not involve the conduct of any
business, trade or industry. Accessory uses and structures may include the
following:
         (a)   The taking of boarders or roomers by the family resident on the
premises, provided that no new living unit with separate kitchen and bathroom
facilities is created (maximum of three rooms for this purpose);
         (b)   Detached garage(s) for the storage of automobiles, recreational
equipment and incidental equipment;
         (c)   Private swimming pools, provided that they meet the side yard
requirements of principal buildings and are fenced to prevent free access to
small children in conformance with the requirements in §
154.125; and
         (d)   Storage buildings.
      (3)   Conditional uses. The following uses are special exceptions and
require written approval of the Board of Adjustment; and the Board may attach
certain conditions to its approval which it feels are necessary to preserve and
protect the character of the district in which the proposed use would locate.
Conditional uses shall be so located, site-planned and designed as to avoid
undue noise, nuisances and dangers:
         (a)   Churches, parish houses and other places of worship located not
less than 20 feet from any other lot in the R District;
         (b)   Public parks, playgrounds, golf courses, country clubs and other
public recreational facilities; provided that any principal building used
therefor shall be located not less than 40 feet from any other lot in the R-
1 District;
         (c)   Schools and colleges for academic instruction, located not less
than 40 feet from the R-1 District lots;
         (d)   Public libraries, public museums and similar public cultural
uses, located not less than 20 feet from R-1 District lots;
         (e)   Private noncommercial recreation areas and facilities not listed
above including tennis courts, club swindling pools; provided that no such
swimming pool shall be located nearer than 100 feet from an R-1 District lot;
         (f)   Funeral homes and cemeteries;
         (g)   Hospitals and clinics for human care, nursing and convalescent
homes, physicians offices, religious and charitable institutions, provided that
any buildings which are used for the permanent care of drug addicts or the
mentally impaired shall be at least 100 feet from the R-1 District lots;
         (h)   Philanthropic institutions and clubs, except a club which is
customarily carried on as a commercial activity;
         (i)   Non-commercial kennel on the premises of a residence occupied by
the owner or tenant as a dwelling house;
         (j)   Bed and breakfast operations;
         (k)   Home occupations as defined in §
154.009; and
         (l)   Private air strips.
      (4)   Special use. A planned unit development for residences shall be
permitted as a special use in conformance with §§
154.205 through
154.213.
      (5)   Development standards (R-1).
 Dwellings Conditional Uses CC
                               Dwellings              Conditional Uses CC
Accessory building             5 feet*                5 feet*          5'
Maximum building height
Principal structure            35 feet                35 feet          35'
Accessory structure            N/A                    N/A              15'
Maximum percentage of lot      40%                    40%              40%
covered by buildings
Minimum front yard             35 feet                35 feet          35'
Minimum lot area
no public sewer                43,560 sq. ft.         43,560 sq. ft.   43,560
on public sewer                11,000 sq. ft.         16,000 sq. ft.   22,500
Minimum public road frontage   75 feet (septic)                        75'
                               60 feet (public sewer)                  100'
Minimum rear yard              25 feet                25 feet          25'
Minimum side yard
Accessory building             5 feet                 5 feet           5'
(each side)                    12 feet                12 feet          12'
Minimum width at building line 75 feet                100 feet         75'
                               See §§               See §§
Parking                        154.165 through        154.165 through  -
                               154.172                154.172
                               See §§               See §§
Signs                          154.185 through        154.185 through  -
                               154.191                154.191
*Rear yards are measured from the property line, unless there are utility
easements along the rear property line; all structures must be located a
minimum of five feet from the easement
 
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.084 SINGLE- MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT (R-2).
   (A)   The intent of the R-2 District is to establish and preserve
residential neighborhoods of different or mixed densities of residential units
and to exclude uses which are not compatible with residential uses.
   (B)   The principal use of land includes single-, two-family and multi-
family dwellings, including townhouses.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Detached single-family dwellings;
         (b)   Attached two-family dwellings (duplexes);
         (c)   Multi-family dwellings including townhouses and condominiums;
         (d)   Approved manufactured/mobile homes; and
         (e)   Other permitted uses as defined in R-1, §
154.083(B)(1).
      (2)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and buildings may be permitted as
customarily incidental to any of the permitted principal and conditional uses
listed above. Accessory uses permitted are those permitted in the R-1 Zone.
      (3)   Conditional uses. Any use conditionally permitted in an R-
1 Residential District and subject to the requirements thereof as provided in §
154.083(B)(3).
      (4)   Special use. A planned unit development for residences shall be
permitted as a special use in conformance with §§
154.145 through
154.150.
      (5)   Development standards (R-2).
 Single-Family Multi-Family
                              Single-Family    Multi-Family
Minimum lot area
                                                10,000 sq. ft. for the first
on public sewer                10,000 sq. ft.   unit plus 2,000 sq. ft. for
                                                each additional dwelling
                                                43,560 per duplex
no public sewer                43,560 sq. ft.   21,780 sq. ft. each additional
                                                unit
Minimum road frontage          75 feet          100 feet/10 feet each
                                                additional unit
Mm. lot width at building line 60 feet          60 feet plus 10 feet for each
                                                additional unit
Minimum front yard             35 feet
Minimum side yard (each side)  10 feet          10 feet
Accessory building             5 feet           5 feet
Minimum rear yard              25 feet          25 feet
Accessory building             5 feet*
Max. percentage of lot covered 40%              40%
by buildings
                               See §§         See §§
Signs                          154.185 through  154.185 through
                               154.191          154.191
                               See §§         See §§
Parking                        154.165 through  154.165 through
                               154.172          154.172
*Rear yards are measured from the property line, unless there are utility
easements along the rear property line; all structures must be located a
minimum of five feet from the easement
 
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005; Ord. passed 2-26-2019)
§ 154.085 COMMERCIAL/PROFESSIONAL OFFICE DISTRICT (C/PO).
   (A)   The intent of the Commercial/Professional Office (C/PO) District is to
accommodate existing and future commercial and professional business
development in such locations and with such” regulations so as to provide
availability and accessibility for the success of commercial/ professional
business operations, to encourage the development of new business at
appropriate locations, and to preserve and protect existing and future
development of all kinds through the use of limited access points, service
roads, parking and loading areas, screening and other regulations.
   (B)   The Commercial/Professional Office District (C/PO) is to establish and
preserve general commercial areas consisting of shopping centers, commercial
strips and professional and service oriented businesses where customers reach
retail and professional and service business establishments primarily by
automobile, while minimizing the undesirable impact on adjacent residential
areas.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Offices of professional medical, insurance, attorneys, real
estate, financial organizations and the like: of individuals, sole proprietors,
labor unions or of civic, social, fraternal and non-profit organizations;
         (b)   Laboratories and other research facilities where all activity
and equipment, including ventilators and other equipment on roofs, is housed in
a fully enclosed building or screened so as not to be visible from off the lot,
and where no noise or odors are created which are discernible beyond the
boundaries of the lot; and
         (c)   Retail sales, barber and beauty shops; gas stations, general and
specialty food stores; drugstores; restaurants; clothing and dry good stores;
appliance stores; hardware stores, bakeries; dry cleaning and laundry
establishments; gas stations; veterinarians and kennels when housed in a fully
enclosed building; motels; hotels, clinics; funeral homes; indoor/outdoor
theaters and other places of amusement including bowling lanes, lighted golf
courses, skating arenas and the like; however, meat and poultry shops where
slaughtering is done on the premises is excluded.
      (2)   Special provisions for shopping centers. Shopping centers comprised
of a building or group of buildings to house three or more permitted commercial
activities shall be permitted as a special use in conformance with the
provisions for Planned Unit Developments as specified in §§
154.205 through
154.213. The following guidelines will apply in designing shopping centers:
         (a)   Neighborhood shopping center. Planned development of commercial,
professional and service-oriented activities providing convenience goods such
as food, drugs, hardware and professional/service oriented services, intended
to serve a market area of 800 families. Neighborhood shopping centers shall
contain at least 16,000 square feet of floor area and two acres, and shall be
located adjacent to an arterial or collector street. Access shall be determined
by the Planning Commission, i.e., service road or direct entry; and
         (b)   Community shopping center. A planned development of commercial
activities providing convenience and shopper goods, such as apparel and home
furnishings serving approximately 2,000 families. Community shopping centers
shall contain at least 30,000 square feet of floor area and a site of at least
five acres. Direct access must be available to arterial streets, or frontage
road as indicated in the Comprehensive Plan.
      (3)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses are special exceptions and
require written approval of the Board of Adjustment. The Board may attach
certain conditions to its approval which it feels are necessary to preserve and
protect the character of the district in which the proposed use would locate.
Conditional uses shall be so located, site-planned and designed as to avoid
undue noise, nuisances and dangers.
         (a)   Schools;
         (b)   Drive-in theaters;
         (c)   Auto, truck and farm implement sales and repair, mobile home
sales; and
         (d)   Public facilities such as libraries, churches, parks, recreation
facilities and hospitals.
      (4)   Accessory uses. Any accessory use or building customarily
incidental to the above permitted uses is permitted, including dwelling units
occupying the same building as the principal commercial use for the express use
of the owner and/or operator of the permitted commercial use.
      (5)   Required conditions.
         (a)   Screening. Where a side lot line is shared with an adjoining
residential lot or zone, a well-maintained compact hedge, a solid fence or
similar solid screening device at least six feet in height shall be installed
to screen the business use from the adjoining lot in the residential district.
The screen shall begin at the front building line and extend along the common
side lot line to the rear property line.
         (b)   Access to highways and streets. Before any building permit for
any structure in a C/PO district may be issued the applicant of the proposed C/
PO activity shall submit a sketch of the site layout and design of the proposed
structure(s) and use; the proposed interior street circulation plan along with
the proposed access points to the Highway Department and the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission may require that when two or more consumer
commercial establishments adjoin along one side of any street or highway that
they share access points to the street When more than four consumer commercial
establishments adjoin along any highway or street, a service road parallel to
the highway or street may be required by the Planning Commission to be built,
at the expense of all adjoining consumer commercial establishments, to provide
service to all consumer commercial establishments on the same side of the
street or highway. This road shall have access to the highway or street at no
more than two points for every four consumer commercial establishments. The
provisions of §§
154.120 through
154.130 shall also apply in a C/PO District. Parking and off-street loading
requirements are provided in §§
154.165 through
154.172.
         (c)   Processing shall be conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building.
         (d)   Processing is permitted if all such processing is performed as a
consumer service for retail customers served on the premises. Processes and
equipment employed in goods processed or sold shall be limited to those which
are not objectionable by reason of odor, dust, smoke, gas fumes, noise,
vibration, refuse matter or water-carried waste.
      (6)   Development standards (C/PO): per each principal building.
Minimum lot area                   
on public sewers                  22,000 sq. ft.
no public sewers                  43,560 sq. ft.
Min. public road frontage         75 feet (public sewer) 100 feet (private
                                  sewage)
Min. width at building line       75 feet
Minimum front yard                50 feet
Minimum side yard                 25 feet - 35 feet adjacent to any R
                                  District
Minimum rear yard                 30 feet
Max. percentage of lot covered by 60%
buildings
                                  See §§
Signs                             154.185 through
                                  154.191
                                  See §§
Parking                           154.165 through
                                  154.172
 
      (7)   Required conditions/minimum design standards.
         (a)   Access. Access to business establishments on U.S. Highway 150
district shall either be from parallel frontage roads (along U.S. 150 from
Stanford to Crab Orchard, U.S. 27 and U.S. 127 or driveways with approved
encroachment permit from Transportation Cabinet -Highway Department. All
intersections of frontage roads or driveways with arterials streets shall
provide acceleration and deceleration lanes of not less than 150 feet and
eleven feet wide. No entrance or exit shall be closer than 600 feet to any
intersection on an arterial road or to the access road of any freeway.
Entrances off controlled access streets shall require both a permit from the
District 8 office of the State Transportation Cabinet and the approval of the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   Landscaping. A landscaped planting strip at least ten feet in
width shall be provided along boundaries of a C/PO District adjacent to any
residential zone or any property being used for residential or institutional
purposes. This area shall be planted with native trees or shrubs in a manner
approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.086 APPLICABLE TO ALL C/PO LAND USES.
   (A)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Signs, only one of which on the premises may be detached from the
principle building; all signs must comply with the regulations set forth in §§
154.185 through
154.191;
      (2)   Garages or other building not used as a dwelling and accessory to
the principle;
      (3)   Wholesale merchandise or services which are clearly incidental and
subordinate to the principle retail use on the premises;
      (4)   Accessory buildings shall be permitted in rear yards only and must
comply with the minimum yard requirements for the principal structures in that
zoning district. On any corner lot adjoining in the rear another lot which is
in a residential district, accessory buildings shall conform to the side yard
requirements for the residential district; and
      (5)   No building in the rear of a main or principal building on the same
lot shall be used for residential purposes unless it conforms to all
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Outdoor storage. There shall be no outdoor storage of merchandise and
no outdoor processing in any commercial district unless authorized as a
conditional use.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.087 RECREATION DISTRICT (R-R).
   This district is intended to provide for recreational and tourism
development and essential recreation oriented services in areas of high
recreational value where soil, topography and other physical features will
support development without depleting or destroying natural resources.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Golf courses;
      (2)   Hotels, motels;
      (3)   Single-family housing, including manufactured housing subject to §§
154.145 through
154.150;
      (4)   Lodges and cabins;
      (5)   Bed and breakfast;
      (6)   Convention facilities;
      (7)   Retreat centers;
      (8)   Boat sales and service, boat storage;
      (9)   Recreational vehicle parks, subject to §§
154.145 through
154.150;
      (10)   Sit-down restaurants, excluding fast food chain-type commercial
establishments;
      (11)   Camping areas/facilities;
      (12)   Equestrian riding and stable facilities;
      (13)   Skeet shooting and gun clubs;
      (14)   Sportsman’s clubs, hunting lodges;
      (15)   Sporting goods and bait shop retail establishments;
      (16)   Indoor and outdoor recreational facilities, including, but not
limited to, soccer fields, football fields, swimming pools, baseball fields,
putting courses, skating rinks and bowling alleys;
      (17)   Taxidermy;
      (18)   Historical sites and attractions;
      (19)   Arts and crafts facilities, including sale of items on premises;
      (20)   Customary accessory uses provided such uses are clearly incidental
to the principal permitted use; and
      (21)   Signs, subject to §§
154.185 through
154.191; parking, subject to §§
154.165 through
154.172.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Private or wholesale carpentry or woodworking shop, limited to the
property owner;
      (2)   Professional offices and studios;
      (3)   Real estate office;
      (4)   Day care, childcare center, play school;
      (5)   Shrub, tree nursery;
      (6)   Hair salon and barber shop; and
      (7)   Arts and crafts retail shops.
   (C)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Any commercial uses that would detract from the intent of this
zone;
      (2)   Any land uses that would negatively impact the water quality of the
Cedar Creek Watershed or Lake;
      (3)   Automobile dealerships; used car lots; manufactured home sales
lots; towers, including, but not limited to, cellular or PCS, radio,
television, short wave or any tower used to transmit or receive; satellite
dishes in excess of four-foot diameter; and other uses the Planning Commission
determines would detract from the recreational-oriented and tourism intent of
this zone; and
      (4)   Exploration or removal of any natural resources, including, but not
limited to, oil, gas and coal.
   (D)   Planned unit developments. Subject to §§
154.205 through
154.213.
   (E)   Development plan required. All development proposals require a
development plan and an Environmental Quality Inventory (EQI) to be submitted
by the applicant. Such development plan shall be prepared by professional
engineers, planners, architects or landscape architects. See §§
154.225 through
154.231.
   (F)   Pre-application meeting documentation. All parties concerned with a
Development Plan will benefit from a discussion during the pre-application
meeting at which time the applicant(s) should present the following information
to staff and to the Planning Commission if deemed necessary by the
Administrative Officer.
      (1)   Vicinity map. A vicinity map shall be prepared at a scale of 2,000
feet to an inch, indicating the relationship of the proposed development to
existing land use and facilities which serve it, such as roads and utilities. A
U.S.G.S. map may be used with a sketch of the proposed area to be developed on
it.
      (2)   Sketch plan. On a topographic survey map of the area proposed for
development, a simple plan in sketch form shall show the proposed general
layout of streets, buildings and other significant features.
      (3)   General information. Any additional information to explain and/or
supplement the vicinity map and sketch plan shall be submitted.
   (G)   Development standards (R-R).
 
Minimum lot area              5 acres
Minimum lot frontage          175 feet
Min. width at building line   100 feet
Minimum front yard            80 feet
Minimum side yard (each side) 75 feet
Minimum rear yard             50 feet
Maximum building height       NA
 
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.088 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   This section is reserved for future legislation.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.089 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1).
   The intent of the Light Industrial District (I-1) is to establish and
preserve areas for industrial and certain related uses of such nature that they
do not create serious problems of compatibility with other types of land uses;
and such establishments should be clean, quiet and free from hazardous or
objectionable levels of noise, odor, dust, smoke or glare.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Manufacturing; wholesaling; warehousing; bulk storage; laundries;
cleaning and dyeing plants; bottling works; building material yards; dairies;
food processing; printing; vehicle or equipment repair or service;
      (2)   Retail sale of commodity manufactured, fabricated or processed on
the premises; gas stations; restaurants; sale and service of agricultural and
construction equipment;
      (3)   The forgoing use authorizations do not include any of such uses
which emit any fumes, vibrations, smoke, noise or glare, except the noise of
vehicles coming and going, which is detectable from off the premises by the
senses of normal human beings. All operations, including the storage of
anything except merchandise displayed for sale, are top be conducted in a fully
enclosed building or entirely behind walls or fences which conceal them from
visibility from sites off the lot; and
      (4)   Other industrial uses not listed above shall be considered
conditional uses and will require written approval of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses are special exceptions and
require written approval of the Board of Adjustment:
      (1)   Trucking terminals; junkyards; single-family homes, including
mobile homes, for use by on-site caretakers or security personnel employed by
the industrial development; drive-in theaters; gasoline, oil or alcohol storage
above ground in excess of 500 gallons if Board of Adjustment review determines
that such proposed use will not constitute a fire hazard; and
      (2)   The Board may attach certain conditions to its approval which it
feels are necessary to preserve and protect the character of the district in
which the proposed use could locate.
   (C)   Required conditions.
      (1)   Yards. On lots adjacent to a residential district all buildings
shall be located so as to provide a minimum side and rear yard of 50 feet.
      (2)   Storage facilities. No materials or supplies shall be stored or
permitted to remain on any part of the property outside the buildings
constructed thereon without proper screening and adequate distances from
adjoining properties.
      (3)   Waste disposal. No waste material or refuse shall be dumped upon or
permitted to remain upon any part of an industrial property outside of
buildings constructed thereon. In addition, the property shall not be used by
an industry whose primary business requires industrial sewerage, unless the
governing municipal body authorizes the use of its sewage disposal facilities
or said industry constructs its own sewage disposal plant.
   (D)   Development standards.
Minimum lot area                  43,560 sq. ft. (septic)
                                 22,000 sq. ft. (public sewer)
Minimum front yard                50 feet
Minimum side yard                 25 feet, except 50 feet if adjacent to
                                  residential district
Minimum rear yard                 25 feet, except 50 feet if adjacent to
                                  residential district
Max. percentage of lot covered by 60%
buildings
                                  See §§
Signs                             154.185 through
                                  154.191
                                  See §§
Parking                           154.165 through
                                  154.172
 
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005; Ord. passed 3-26-2009)
§ 154.090 FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT (F).
   (A)   The intent of the Floodplain District (F) is to restrict the use of
the floodplains of natural drainageways to those uses that will not be greatly
damaged by floods or moving waters.
   (B)   The purpose is to minimize the costs of flood damage to individual
property owners and the general public and avoid impeding the flow of
floodwaters.
      (1)   Permitted uses. The Floodplain District is a zone that may be
superimposed over any other zoning district wherein the provisions of the other
zoning district are applicable as well as the provisions contained herein.
      (2)   District regulations. Areas designated “F” (Floodplain District)
shall be based upon areas determined to be in “flood-prone” areas under the
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) National Flood Insurance
Program and such other areas as determined by the Planning Commission to be
subject to flooding. Within such designated area, no permanent structures for
residential, agricultural, commercial, industrial or public use shall be placed
without first securing a building permit and demonstrating provisions to
protect such structure from flood damage. No building permits shall be issued
within the 100-year floodplain unless the structures are floodproofed and meet
all other the state and federal flood insurance requirements.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
§ 154.105 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   All existing and future structures and uses of premises within the county,
shall conform with all applicable provisions of this chapter. Each zoning
district is established to permit only those uses specifically listed as
permitted uses or accessory uses, except as provided under the nonconforming or
conditional use provisions, and is intended for the protection of those uses.
No other uses are permitted except as specifically permitted elsewhere in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.106 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL AREAS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, land which is used solely for
agricultural, farming, dairying, stock raising or similar purposes, shall have
no regulations imposed as to height, yard, location or court requirements for
agricultural buildings except that:
      (1)   Setback lines and/or buffer zones shall be required for the
protection of existing and proposed streets and highways. In connection
therewith, all requirements of the State Transportation Cabinet, Bureau of
Highways Regulations as regarding distance, sight and drainage shall be
compiled with; and
      (2)   All buildings or structures in a designated floodway or floodplain,
or which tend to increase flood heights or obstruct the flow of floodwaters
shall be fully regulated.
   (B)   Mobile homes and other dwellings may be permitted as a part of
agricultural use of the land but shall have regulations imposed which are
applicable, such as zoning, building and certificates of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.107 SUBDIVISION OF ALL LAND.
   (A)   Landowners or developers desiring to subdivide agricultural land for
any non-agricultural use must conform with the county subdivision regulations
(Chapter 153), including design and processing requirements and must conform
with the dimension requirements and other special requirements as may be
imposed by the Commission.
   (B)   In all cases, where the ownership of any land is divided for the
purpose of eventual development of all kinds (residential, commercial,
industrial), the provisions of the county subdivision regulations (Chapter 153)
and amendments thereto shall apply in addition to the provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.108 CERTIFICATE OF LAND USE RESTRICTION.
   Whenever a legislative body approves a zoning map amendment, whenever the
Planning Commission approves a development plan or subdivision plat, and
whenever the Board of Adjustments approves a variance or conditional use
permit, a certificate of land use restriction as detailed on the following page
shall be filed with the County Clerk (per KRS 100.3683).
1. Name and address of property owner(s)
___________________________________________      _____________________________________
___________________________________________      _____________________________________
___________________________________________      _____________________________________
2. Address of Property or development (If applicable)      3. Name of
Subdivision
 
___________________________________________      _____________________________________
___________________________________________      _____________________________________
___________________________________________      _____________________________________
4. Type of Restriction(s) (Check all that apply)
_____Zoning Map Amendment to __________________Zone
_____Conditional Zoning Condition
_____Development Plan
_____Unrecorded Subdivision Plat
_____Variance
_____Conditional Use Permit
_____Other (Specify).
5. Name and address of Planning Commission, Board of Adjustment, legislative
body which maintains the original records containing the restriction.
___________________________________
___________________________________
___________________________________
                              ___________________________________
                              Signature of Completing Official
                              ___________________________________
                              Name and Title of Completing Official (type of
print)
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.120 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter specified, the provisions of this subchapter
shall apply to all districts.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter affect every building and use. No
building or land shall be used, and no building shall be erected, moved,
altered, except in conformity with those regulations, the county building
inspection ordinance (
Chapter 150).
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.121 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Any part of any yard, open space, off-street parking or loading space
required in connection with any building to comply with these regulations shall
not be included as part of any yard, open space or parking or loading space for
any other building unless approved as a variance by the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   A yard or lot existing at the time of adoption of this chapter, or
created subsequently, shall not be reduced in dimension or area below the
minimum requirements set forth in these regulations.
   (C)   Front yards for corner and/or through lots shall be of the depth
required by this chapter for the district in which the lots are located. The
side yard adjacent to the other street shall be of the depth required by this
chapter for front yards in the district in which the lot adjacent to the corner
and/or through lot is located.
   (D)   Front yards and side yards for corner lots shall be measured from the
street right-of-way line. This provision shall not be construed as requiring
the dedication of any property to the public.
   (E)   Steps, terraces, decks, carports, bay windows, fire escapes,
balconies, open porches and other unenclosed architectural features may extend
into required yard space not more than 12 feet provided that no such projection
shall be less than five feet from a side lot line, or ten feet from front yard
setback line. Enclosing such projection into yard space is prohibited.
   (F)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, fences, walls and
hedges may be permitted in any required yard or along the edge of any yard,
provided that no fence, wall or hedge along the sides or front edge of any
front yard shall be over two and one-half feet in height. In planned unit
developments requiring development plan review, the Planning Commission may
permit fences, walls and hedges above two and one-half feet in height in the
front yard.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.122 SETBACK LINES, EXCEPTIONS.
   Front yard setback lines may be varied where the average depth of principal
buildings on adjoining properties is less or greater than the depth prescribed
elsewhere in this chapter. In such case, the front yard in question shall not
be less than the average depth of existing front yards on the two lots
immediately adjoining.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.123 LOT ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be on a lot adjacent
to a public street, and all structures shall be so located on lots as to
provide safe and convenient access for servicing, fire protection, and required
off-street parking; and access to buildings in a planned unit development shall
be approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The following restrictions regarding lot access control shall apply in
all business and industrial zoning districts.
      (1)   Lots with less than 100 feet of frontage on a public street shall
have no more than one point of access to the public street. Lots with more than
100 feet but less than 400 feet shall have no more than two points of access to
the public street. Lots with more than 400 feet of frontage shall have no more
than two points of access for each 400 feet of frontage.
      (2)   The location of access drives for lots with 400 or more feet of
frontage shall be approved by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The following restrictions regarding lot access control shall apply in
all zoning districts.
      (1)   No point of access shall be allowed within 100 feet of the
intersection of the right-of-way lines of intersecting streets.
      (2)   No curbs on public streets or public rights-of-way shall be cut,
removed or altered, nor shall any curb or pavement be constructed within the
right-of-way without written approval of the Administrative/Enforcement Officer
and County Road Supervisor.
      (3)   An access drive shall not exceed 20 feet in width for one-way and/
or one-lane ingress or egress. Two-way and/or two-lane access drives shall not
exceed 35 feet in width.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.124 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Accessory buildings shall be permitted in rear yards only and must be
at least five feet from any other buildings on the same lot and five feet from
all adjoining lots; unless otherwise specified in this chapter. On any corner
lot adjoining in the rear another lot which is in a residential district,
accessory buildings shall conform to the side yard requirements for the
residential district
   (B)   No buildings in the rear of a main or principal building on the same
lot shall be used for residential purposes unless it conforms to all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.125 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   All private in-ground and aboveground pools except as noted below must
be covered or completely enclosed, including a gate, with a minimum of a four-
foot fence so as to prevent unauthorized or accidental access by children.
Above-ground pools greater than four feet in height with a retractable or
removable ladder and all pools smaller than 100 square feet and 18 inches in
depth or less and not containing any recirculating equipment shall be exempt
from this requirement.
   (B)   The Administrative/Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to
waive this requirement in light of extenuating circumstances regarding a
particular piece of property such as natural barriers preventing access and
location on large fenced lots. All public swimming pools must meet all
applicable state regulations regarding fencing.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.126 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The height limitations contained in this chapter shall not apply to spires,
belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, ventilators, chimneys or other
appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level and not
intended for human occupancy.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.127 SUBDIVISION OR CONSOLIDATION OF LOTS.
   In all cases where the ownership of land is divided or consolidated for the
purpose of eventual development of lots, the provisions of the subdivision
regulations (
Chapter 153) shall apply in addition to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.128 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On a corner lot in any district, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted
or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a
height of two and one-half feet and ten feet above the centerline grades of the
intersecting streets in the area bounded by the edge of the street pavement and
a line joining points along said pavement 50 feet from the point of
intersection.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.129 WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   No building or dwelling can be occupied without water supply and sewage
disposal facilities which have been approved by the County Health Department
Wherever public water and sewer mains are accessible, buildings shall be
connected to such mains. Reasonable accessibility will be determined by the
proximity of the land being developed to existing lines and the capacity of the
system. In every case, individual water supply and sewage disposal must meet
the requirements set by the County Health Department or rural utility’s water
and sewer department manager. A certificate showing approval of proposed and/or
existing water and sewerage facilities must accompany applications for all
subdivision plats.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.130 EXCAVATION AND GRADING FOR APPROVED CONSTRUCTION.
   The excavation of natural materials, filling of land or grading shall be
permitted without a conditional use permit only to the degree necessary to
permit construction of buildings, streets or accessory uses for which a
building permit has been granted. Materials used for fill shall be natural
materials only, such as sand, gravel or dirt, and shall not consist of rubbish,
refuse, garbage or decomposable animal or vegetable materials. Any excavation,
filling or grading which is not clearly necessary and incidental to an approved
construction project shall require a conditional use permit, only for buildings
which require a building permit. Regrading shall be undertaken at a time which
is customary to the overall construction timetable of similar projects.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOMES
§ 154.145 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to encourage provision of
alternative, modest housing in residential areas by permitting the use of
certain manufactured homes, as defined herein, in all districts in which
similar dwellings constructed on site are permitted. It is the intent of this
subchapter to assure acceptable similarity in exterior appearance between such
manufactured homes and dwellings that have been or might be constructed under
these and other lawful regulations on adjacent or nearby lots in the same
district
   (B)   It is further the intent of this subchapter is to guide the
establishment of mobile home parks and recreational vehicle parks in areas
providing a residential setting, convenient to major arterials, and with
maximum compatibility with the adjacent uses.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.146 MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADD-A-ROOM UNIT. A unit of manufactured housing, not designed as a part of
the original structure, which may have less occupied space than a manufactured
housing section.
   ANCHORING SYSTEM. An approved system of straps, cables, turnbuckles, chains,
ties or other approved materials used to secure a manufactured or certified
mobile home.
   ANSI/NFPA 501A STANDARD FOR INSTALLATION OF MANUFACTURED/CERTIFIED MOBILE
HOMES. Model national standards, (including all authorized successor documents)
for installation of manufactured and certified mobile homes, as adopted and
copyrighted by the National Fire Protection Association and the Manufactured
Housing Institute.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the appropriate authority having jurisdiction, by
reason of investigation, accepted principles, or tests by nationally recognized
organizations.
   CERTIFIED MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure larger than 320 square
feet, designed to be used as a year-round residential dwelling, and either
built prior to the enactment of the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act of 1974 which became effective for all mobile home construction June 15,
1976 and subsequently upgraded to be able to receive a “B” seal certifying that
the unit has been inspected and is in compliance with standards set forth in
the HUD Code, or built after June 15, 1976. Such certified mobile homes may be
located in the county on one acre or more in the A-1 Zone or in a mobile home
park provided that it is placed onto a fixed permanent foundation with the
wheels or mobile parts removed, in accordance with approved installation
standards, as specified in §
154.149(A) and has an approved foundation siding/ skirting enclosing the entire
perimeter of the home. Such mobile homes shall be considered as real estate in
accordance with KRS 132.750. Mobile homes not meeting these standards may not
be permitted in any zone. All manufactures/mobile homes that are purchased from
a private citizen by a private citizen for relocation in the county, will
reinspected for HUD certification through the State Fire Marshal’s Office.
   EXPANDO UNIT. An expandable manufactured housing unit.
   FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING. A type of wainscoting constructed of fire and
weather resistant materials, such as aluminum, particle board, treated pressed
wood or other approved materials, enclosing the entire undercarriage of the
manufactured or certified mobile home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site manufacturing
facility for installation or assembly at the building site, bearing a seal
certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Code.
      (1)   All manufactured homes meeting the following requirements shall be
permitted in all traditional residential districts:
         (a)   Have more than 900 square feet of occupied space in a double or
larger multi-section unit;
         (b)   Be placed on a permanent foundation;
         (c)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with
approved installation standards, as specified in §
154.149(A);
         (d)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with ANSI and to the
manufacturer’s specifications;
         (e)   Be without wheels;
         (f)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with the One- and Two-
Family Dwelling Code and manufacturer’s specifications;
         (g)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences; and
         (h)   Have roofing materials of a style and type customarily used on
site-constructed residences.
      (2)   Manufactured homes not meeting these standards may only be placed
on lots in conformance with the requirements for a certified mobile home.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODE. Title VI of the
1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted thereunder (including information supplied
by the home manufacturer), which has been stamped and approved by a Design
Approval Primary Inspection Agency, an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules.
   MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY/PARK. A parcel of land on which two or
more manufactured or certified mobile homes are occupied as residences. No lot
shall be occupied by more than one manufactured or certified mobile home unless
it complies with all the requirements for a manufactured or mobile home park,
except as permitted in §
154.147(A). All new manufactured or mobile home parks shall consist of a
minimum of five acres.
   OCCUPIED SPACE. The total area of earth horizontally covered by the
structure, excluding accessory structures, such as, but not limited to,
garages, patios and porches.
   ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE. The nationally-recognized model building
code prepared by the Council of American Building Officials.
   PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A permanent perimeter structural system
completely enclosing the space between the floor joists of the home and the
ground.
   PERMANENT FOUNDATION. Any structural system for transposing loads from a
structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil, but excepting
single wide homes whose supporting structure does not have to be below the
frost line.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A portable vehicular structure not built to the
Federal Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code (or the
obsolete ANSI 119.1 Mobile Home Design and Construction Standard) designed for
travel, recreational camping or vacation purposes, either having its own motor
power or mounted onto or drawn by another vehicle, and including but not
limited to travel and camping trailers, truck campers and motor homes.
   SECTION. A unit of a manufactured home at least ten body feet in width and
30 body feet in length.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMIT or CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A device for permitting
a use within a district other than a principally permitted use.
   SUPPORT SYSTEM. A pad or a combination of footings, piers, caps, plates and
shims, which, when properly installed, support the manufactured or certified
mobile home.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.147 CERTIFIED MOBILE HOMES PERMITTED.
   Certified mobile homes shall be allowed only as provided in §§
154.075 through
154.090 and as follows.
   (A)   In an A-1 District, certified mobile homes may be used as dwelling
units on a minimum of one acre, provided that prior approval of the sanitary
waste disposal system is granted by the County Health Department, and provided
that the “setback” requirements of the zoning district can be met. Such mobile
homes shall also meet all of the requirements detailed in the definitions found
in §
154.146. Placement of more than two certified mobile homes on a single lot at a
density of greater than one unit per one acre shall be considered a mobile home
park and shall require application and approval of the County Planning
Commission as provided herein.
   (B)   Certified mobile homes may be used as temporary offices of
construction companies on or near a construction site with the approval of the
Building Inspector.
   (C)   All certified mobile homes used as dwellings are to be placed on fixed
permanent foundations with the wheels or mobile parts removed, and they are to
be considered as real estate in accordance with KRS 132.750.
   (D)   An existing manufactured/mobile home on lots that have been
“grandfathered in” at a density greater than one and less than three may be
replaced with a newer manufactured/mobile home contingent upon approval from
the County Health Department for septic tank approval.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005; Ord. passed 1-27-2005)
§ 154.148 MOBILE HOME PARKS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   (A)   Mobile home parks.
      (1)   Definition. A mobile home park is a parcel of land on which two or
more manufactured or mobile homes are occupied as residences. It is further
defined as a residential area in which such manufactured/mobile home lots are
rented for use as sites for manufactured and/or mobile homes for residential
use along with other uses permitted herein. Ownership of all land in a mobile
home park shall be maintained by the developer, his or her heirs, successors or
assigns. No lots shall be severed and sold from the mobile home park. No lot
shall be occupied by more than one manufactured or mobile home unless it
complies with all requirements for a manufactured or mobile home park, except
as permitted in §
154.147(A). All manufactured or mobile home parks shall consist of a minimum of
five acres.
      (2)   Basic requirements.
         (a)   Mobile home parks shall comply with the regulations of the State
Mobile Home and Recreational Vehicle Park Law, as set forth in KRS Chapter 219.
         (b)   All mobile home parks shall abut upon an arterial or collector
thoroughfare.
         (c)   No mobile home park shall be located on less than five acres of
land.
         (d)   No mobile home park shall have a density of more than one mobile
home per acre on private sewer, and four with public sewer.
         (e)   No person shall operate a park without having first obtained a
permit, as provided for in KRS 219.310 to 219.410.
         (f)   An application for a permit to construct a mobile home park
shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission and shall contain the
same information as that submitted to the State Bureau for Health Services. In
addition, the following information shall be presented to the Commission:
            1.   A vicinity map showing the proposed location of the park in
relation to major streets or highways;
            2.   A detailed description of the method proposed for disposal of
storm drainage and/or drainage detention; and
            3.   Proof of receipt of KRS Chapter 219, Mobile Home Park Permit.
      (3)   Construction plan submission. Following tentative approval from the
Commission and the Bureau for Health Services, the applicant shall submit a
complete plan, drawn to scale, submitted in triplicate, of the proposed park or
alteration, showing the following:
         (a)   A map showing the topography of the proposed site at not more
than five-foot intervals; and
         (b)   A site plan showing all existing facilities and proposed
facilities, as follows:
            1.   The area and dimensions of the tract of land to be developed;
            2.   The number, location and size of all lots for certified mobile
homes;
            3.   A detailed drawing of the foundation for the placement of
certified mobile homes within the mobile home park. All certified mobile homes
shall be installed as per §
154.149;
            4.   The location and width of roadways, driveways and walkways;
the number, location and size of all off-street automobile parking spaces (see
supplementary provisions below);
            5.   The location of parking, street lighting and electrical
systems; detail drawings of approved public water supply system; detail
drawings of sewage disposal facilities if other than a public sewage disposal
system is to be used; the location and size of all existing or proposed water
and sewer lines, vents and riser pipes;
            6.   A separate floor plan of all buildings and other improvements
either existing or proposed; and
            7.   Size and location of playground and other public areas to be
provided within the park.
      (4)   Location and general layout.
         (a)   Every certified mobile home and mobile home park shall be
located on a well-drained area, not subject to flooding, and the premises shall
be properly graded so as to prevent the accumulation of storm or other waters.
         (b)   Each mobile home or lot shall be numbered and displayed in some
systematic order, both on the plan and on the site.
         (c)   Each mobile home lot shall contain a minimum of 11,000 square
feet on public sewer.
         (d)   Each certified mobile home shall contain at least 320 square
feet of floor area and comply with §
154.147.
         (e)   All mobile homes shall be located at least 50 feet from any park
boundary line abutting a public street or highway, and at least 20 feet from
other park property boundary lines.
         (f)   All lots shall abut upon a park street. For a two-way street,
the minimum paved width shall be 22 feet with no parking allowed on either
side. If parking is permitted on one side, the paved width shall be 32 feet;
and if parking is permitted on both sides, the minimum paved width shall be 42
feet. The minimum right-of-way for a two-way street shall be 50 feet, and 40
feet for a one-way street. Park driveways and walkways shall be of all-weather
paved construction, maintained in good condition, and have natural drainage,
and shall be maintained free of holes. All roads shall comply with the
subdivision regulations or county road ordinance, whichever is more
restrictive.
         (g)   The area provided for the placement of the mobile home shall be
improved to provide a base for a permanent, fixed foundation for the placement
of each mobile home. The foundation shall be constructed in such a manner that
it will not heave, shift or settle unevenly under the weight of the mobile home
due to frost action, inadequate drainage, vibration or other forces acting on
the mobile home. All mobile homes shall be equipped with tie-downs as
recommended by the Manufactured Housing Association, and shall be required to
use them. Placement of all certified mobile homes shall comply with §
154.149.
         (h)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a sewer and water
connection approved by the County Health Officer.
      (5)   Utility systems.
         (a)   Water supply.
            1.   All mobile home parks shall be connected to an approved public
water supply.
            2.   The water supply shall be capable of supplying a minimum of
150 gallons per day per mobile home.
            3.   Water distribution and connections shall comply with the State
Plumbing Code.
         (b)   Sewage and waste disposal.
            1.   All sewage shall be disposed of into a public sewage treatment
system.
            2.   The sewer service connection between the mobile home and the
sewer opening shall have a normal inside diameter of at least three inches,
with a slope of at least one-quarter inch per foot. All joints shall be
watertight.
            3.   All materials used for sewer connections shall be semi-rigid,
corrosion resistant, non-absorbent and durable. The inner surface shall be
smooth.
            4.   The sewer outlet shall be capped when not in use.
            5.   The mobile home park waste systems and connections shall
comply with the State Plumbing Code.
         (c)   Refuse handling. The permit holder shall be responsible for the
storage and disposing of refuse and shall conduct same so as to create no
health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accidents or fire
hazards, or air pollution.
         (d)   Electrical distribution system. Every mobile home park shall
contain an electrical wiring system, consisting of wiring, fixtures, equipment
and appurtenances which shall be installed in accordance with local and state
codes and regulations governing systems of like nature.
      (6)   Responsibilities of permit holder. The person to whom a permit is
issued for a mobile home park shall operate the park in compliance with this
chapter and KRS Chapter 219, and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain
the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair, and in a clean and
sanitary condition.
         (a)   The park management shall notify park occupants of all
applicable provisions of this chapter and KRS Chapter 219, and inform them of
their duties and responsibilities under this chapter.
         (b)   The park management shall be responsible for the proper
placement of each certified mobile home in accordance with §
154.149. This includes placing it upon a firm, fixed foundation, securing its
stability with an approved anchoring system and installing all utility
connections.
      (7)   Supplementary provisions and regulations. 
         (a)   The Commission may impose such other conditions as it deems
necessary to ensure that the mobile home park will not adversely affect the
public health, safety or general welfare.
         (b)   The developer in designing the park and the Commission in
reviewing the park proposal shall give special attention to ensuring that the
park is compatible with existing and planned land use and with circulation
patterns of adjoining properties.
         (c)   All development plans shall include a landscape plan.
         (d)   Sidewalks shall be required on one side of the proposed street.
         (e)   Off-street parking shall be provided according to the following
requirements:
            1.   Two spaces for each mobile home lot;
            2.   One space for each fun-time park employee;
            3.   One space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area for any
structure used for office, recreational or cultural activities;
            4.   One space for each four mobile home lots for use by guests;
and
            5.   Two parking spaces required for each certified mobile home
should be located on the mobile home lot; all other required spaces should be
located in bays convenient to facilities.
      (8)   Existing parks. Any mobile home park presently holding a valid
construction or operating permit on the effective date of this chapter and
which does not fully meet the design and construction requirements of this
chapter may continue to operate so long as the facilities in the park are
capable of being maintained in a safe and sanitary manner and no public health
nuisance is allowed to exist as determined by the County Health Department and
Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Recreational vehicle parks.
      (1)   Definition. Recreational vehicle parks are designed to accommodate
recreational vehicles for short periods of time, ranging from one night to
several weeks.
      (2)   Basic requirements.
         (a)   Size. The minimum size of a recreational vehicle park shall be
not less than ten (10) acres.
         (b)   Density. Minimum lot area per recreational vehicle space shall
be not less than 2,500 square feet and not more than 18 spaces per gross acre,
except that 20% of the lots may be as small as 1,200 square feet in area, but
these may be used by tent campers only. Each tent camper lot must be provided
with a water spigot and drain, an electrical outlet and a covered garbage
receptacle.
         (c)   Location. Recreational vehicle parks shall be located adjacent
to and have access to a major thoroughfare or collector street. There shall be
no entrance or exit from or onto a minor street.
      (3)   Zoning.
         (a)   Recreational vehicle parks may be permitted as a conditional use
in the A-1 District provided they meet the following criteria, and provided
further that they are approved by the Commission:
         (b)   The proposed park will contribute to the welfare and convenience
of the traveling public seeking this type of accommodations.
         (c)   The park will not be detrimental to the health, safety or
general welfare of persons who live in the adjacent areas.
         (d)   The park will comply with all county, state or federal
regulations. Documentation of such compliance shall be required of applicants
for recreational vehicle park construction permits.
         (e)   The park will comply with all adopted plans (prepared by or for
governmental agencies) for the neighborhood or community.
      (4)   Compliance with state standards. Recreational vehicle parks shall
comply with all requirements and standards as stated in the Mobile Home and
Recreational Vehicle Act of 1972, KRS 219.310 to 219.410. Documentation of such
compliance shall be required of applicants for recreational vehicle park
construction permits.
      (5)   Existing recreational vehicle parks. Any recreational vehicle park
presently holding a valid construction or operating permit on the effective
date of this chapter which does not fully meet the design and construction
requirements of this chapter may continue to operate so long as the facilities
in the park are capable of being maintained in a safe and sanitary manner and
no public health nuisance is allowed to exist as determined by the County
Health Department and the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.149 MANUFACTURED/CERTIFIED MOBILE HOME INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Installation standards.
      (1)   Permanent perimeter enclosure. Manufactured homes as defined in
this chapter as requiring a permanent perimeter enclosure must be set onto an
excavated area, with foundations, footings and crawl space or basement walls
constructed in accordance with the terms of the One- and Two-Family Dwelling
Code. The space between the floor joists of the home and the excavated
underfloor grade shall be completely enclosed with the permanent perimeter
enclosure (except for required openings).
      (2)   Foundation siding/skirting.
         (a)   All manufactured or certified mobile homes not requiring a
permanent perimeter enclosure shall have an approved foundation siding/skirting
enclosing the entire perimeter of the home. Foundation siding/skirting and
back-up framing shall be weather-resistant, non-combustible or self-
extinguishing materials, which blend with the exterior siding of the home.
Below grade level and for a minimum distance of six inches above finish grade,
the materials shall be unaffected by decay or oxidation. The siding shall be
installed in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations or approved equal
standards.
         (b)   The siding shall be ventilated by openings, which shall have a
net area of not less than one square foot for each 150 linear feet of exterior
perimeter. The openings shall be covered with corrosion resistant wire mesh not
larger than one-half inch in any dimension. The underfloor area shall be
provided with an 18-inch by 24-inch minimum size access crawl hole, which shall
not be blocked by pipes, ducts or other construction interfering with the
accessibility of the underfloor space, or other approved access mechanism.
   (B)   Support system. All HUD-Code Manufactured Home load-bearing
foundations shall be installed in conformance with ANSI and with the
manufacturer’s installation specifications. All certified mobile homes not
placed on a permanent foundation, shall be installed on a support system in
conformance with the manufacturer’s installation specifications or with the
Support Systems regulations in the ANSI/NFPA 501A1977 Installation Standards.
   (C)   Location permits. Note: these replace the building permit requirement.
      (1)   Requirements. Prior to the location, relocation or establishment of
any manufactured or certified mobile home, the homeowner or authorized
representative shall secure from the appropriate Administrative/Enforcement
Officer a location permit, which states that the building and its location
conform with the Comprehensive Plan. Each application for a location permit
shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Those plot plans as required for all dwelling units, but which
at a minimum include elevations or photographs of all sides of the home,
exterior dimensions, roof materials, foundation siding or permanent perimeter
enclosure treatment, foundation siding or perimeter retaining wall treatment,
foundation construction and materials, exterior finishes and the like;
         (b)   Health department approval for any sewage disposal or water
supply, where applicable;
         (c)   Mobile home park permit approval, where applicable;
         (d)   A copy of the approved instructions, which will be used for
installation purposes, where applicable;
         (e)   Such other information, as may be required by the
Administrative/ Enforcement Officer for proper enforcement of this chapter; and
         (f)   An agreement signed by the homeowner or authorized
representative pledging compliance with the terms set by the Planning
Commission in the location permit.
      (2)   Issuance of permit. After receipt of the information required for a
location permit the Administrative/Enforcement Officer shall review the
standards set in this chapter. If the applicant has met all required standards,
then within three working days the location permit shall be issued by the
Administrative/Enforcement Officer.
      (3)   Additional action necessary. If after receipt of the information
required for the location permit, the Administrative/Enforcement Officer finds
that the applicant has not fully met the standards set in the ordinance, and
the changes or additional actions needed are deemed by the designated
administrator to be relatively minor or simple, within three working days a
conditional approval can be issued, with the stated conditions which must be
met prior to occupancy spelled out, and the reasons for change clearly stated
in writing. If the applicant agrees in writing to the further conditions, the
effect being an amendment to the application to conform to the requirements,
approval is given and the applicant proceeds. If the applicant does not agree,
the application is denied, with reasons stated in writing.
      (4)   Denial of permit. If any of the major elements are clearly out of
line with the standards, within three working days issuance of the location
permit will be denied, with a written statement specifying the reasons for the
denial.
   (D)   Failure to obtain required permits. Failure to obtain either a
location permit or a certificate of occupancy shall be violation of this
chapter and punishable under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.150 TEMPORARY USE OF MANUFACTURED OR CERTIFIED MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Circumstances for permit issuance. Subject to conditions, fees and
standards otherwise required by this chapter, a temporary use permit may be
issued as follows:
      (1)   To an applicant to use a manufactured or certified mobile home as a
caretaker’s quarters or construction office at a job site in business and
industrial zones only; and
      (2)   To an applicant in an A-1 District with a minimum of one acre who
is in the process of building a conventional dwelling for the purpose of using
the mobile home as a temporary dwelling for a maximum of one calendar year
during the course of construction of the dwelling; such permit shall be void
after one year or upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy; such mobile home
shall be removed from the property within 30 days of the permit becoming void.
   (B)   Length of permit. A temporary use permit may be issued, at the
discretion of the Administrative/Enforcement Officer, for a period not to
exceed one year. The temporary permit may be renewed for additional six-month
periods upon showing of good cause, and with permission to do so. However, at
the discretion of the Administrative/Enforcement Officer, a temporary use
permit may be issued to an applicant for a health or age related circumstance
for a period coteraunous with the health or age related circumstance.
   (C)   Permit expiration. At the time the temporary permit expires, the
manufactured or certified mobile home and all appurtenances shall be removed
from the property within 30 days.
   (D)   Utility requirements. Manufactured or certified mobile homes used for
temporary uses shall have an approved water supply, sewage disposal system and
utility connections, where appropriate.
   (E)   Permit fee. A temporary use permit shall be issued by the
Administrative/Enforcement Officer. The fee shall be $25 and is in addition to
all other required permits for utilities and sewage disposal systems.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 154.165 EXISTING PARKING SPACES.
   No building or structure shall be erected, substantially altered or its use
changed unless permanently maintained off-street parking and loading spaces
have been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Existing
off-street parking provided for any building or use at the time of adoption of
this chapter shall not thereafter be reduced if such reduction results in
parking area less than that required by this chapter. Any existing building or
use not provided with conforming parking space shall be provided with off-
street parking space in conformance with this chapter at the time of any
structural alteration of the building, expansion of the use, or change in the
use.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.166 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   No building shall be erected, substantially altered, nor any new use
of the land initiated without sufficient off-street parking space on the
premises so that no additional automobile parking on any street will result
from the normal activity. If the off-street parking capacity is exceeded and
street parking is generated more often than six times during a six-month
period, this shall be considered as resulting from normal activity, and
additional off-street parking shall be provided. The Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the amount of parking space required for any building or use,
assisted by the following standards, whenever the Administrative/Enforcement
Officer is unable to apply the following standards literally or determines a
parking space deficiency according to the standard above. In either case, he
shall apply to the Board for an original interpretation.
   (B)   Whenever a building or structure constructed after the effective date
of this chapter is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of employees,
number of housing units, seating capacity or otherwise to create a need for an
increase in the number of existing parking spaces, additional parking spaces
shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change; provided that
whenever a building or structure existing prior to the effective date of this
chapter is enlarged to the extent of 50% or more in floor area, number of
employees, number of housing units, seating capacity or otherwise, said
building or structure shall then and thereafter comply with the full parking
requirements set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§   154.167 PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   A parking space shall have minimum rectangular dimensions as follows:
 
Type of Parking Width (feet) Length (feet)
90-degree       9.5          19
Parallel        9.5          23
60-degree       10           19
45-degree       12           19
 
   (B)   All dimensions shall be exclusive of driveways, aisles and other
circulation areas. No part of any parking area for more than ten vehicles shall
be closer than 20 feet to any dwelling unit, school, hospital or other
institution for human care on an adjacent lot unless separated by an acceptably
design screen. No parking area may be located in the front yard area of any
single-family residence. In no case shall any part of a parking area be closer
than four feet to any established street or alley right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.168 OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following standards comprise the minimum off-street parking
requirements for the several common types of building and uses listed:
      (1)   Dwellings: two parking spaces per dwelling unit;
      (2)   Motels, hotels: one parking space per sleeping room plus one space
for each two employees;
      (3)   Indoor retail businesses: one parking space for each 250 square
feet of commercial floor area plus one space for every vehicle operated by the
business;
      (4)   Finance, insurance and professional offices: One parking space per
300 square feet of floor area used to conduct the business, up to 6,000 square
feet; one parking space for each 1,500 square feet of floor area in excess of
6,000 square feet;
      (5)   Industrial: One parking space for every two employees at maximum
employment on a single shift plus one space for every vehicle operated by the
plant; and
      (6)   Places for public assembly, institutions and recreational
facilities: one parking space for every five person based on maximum capacity.
   (B)   Additional parking standards: the Board of Adjustment may alter the
standards listed above when necessary to conform with §
154.166 and shall use similar criteria of floor area, employment or capacity to
interpret standards for buildings and uses not specifically listed above.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.169 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE REGULATIONS FOR TRUCKS.
   (A)   All buildings and uses which generate regular trucking traffic shall
be provided with sufficient off-street loading and unloading space on the
premises so that they will generate no loading or unloading activity on their
required parking spaces or on any street. The Board of Adjustment shall
interpret the amount of loading and unloading space required for any building
or use whenever the Administrative/Enforcement Officer is unable to apply this
standard literally and applies to the Board for an original interpretation.
   (B)   A loading space shall have minimum dimensions of not less than 12 feet
in width, 50 feet in length, exclusive of driveways, aisles and other
circulation areas, and a height of clearance of not less than 15 feet. Off-
street loading spaces shall be provided and maintained on the same lot for
every principle use requiring delivery of goods. One such loading space shall
be required for a principle use of up to 5,000 square feet; one additional
loading space shall be required for each additional 10,000 square feet or
fraction thereof.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.170 ADDITIONAL PARKING, LOADING AND UNLOADING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Arrangement of required off-street parking space.
      (1)   Off-street parking space requirements for any apartments,
dormitories or any similar attached dwelling uses shall be located not more
than 300 feet from the principle use they serve and may be detached therefrom.
      (2)   Off-street parking space requirements for any commercial,
industrial or institutional uses shall be located not more than 700 feet from
the principle use they serve and may be detached therefrom. Such required
parking spaces may be consolidated into a large parking area serving other
buildings and uses if approved by the Board of Adjustment. The Administrative/
Enforcement Officer shall apply to the Board for an original interpretation
when building permits are requested in such cases.
      (3)   Parking spaces for all detached single-family residences shall be
located on the same lot as the use which they are intended to serve.
      (4)   The Board may not authorize the total amount of parking space
required for all buildings and uses to be diminished except as follows. If a
consolidated parking area serves buildings or uses which do not generate
automobile parking at the same times (i.e., churches and stores), total parking
space may be diminished to the maximum required by those buildings and uses
which do generate the parking of automobiles at the same time.
   (B)   Proof of availability. The Board of Adjustment may require a plat,
deed and any other proof necessary to show that required parking space, if
located off the premises it serves, is controlled by and available to the
applicant for a building permit.
   (C)   Surfacing of parking, loading, unloading and vehicular access areas.
      (1)   All entrances and exits to all properties shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards set by the commonwealth, if said entrances or
exits adjoin a federal road or highway or state road or highway. This
requirement shall be enforced in all zones.
      (2)   All entrances and exits to all properties which do not adjoin a
federal road or highway or state road or highway shall be constructed so that
said entrances and exits shall be a minimum width of 50 feet at the location
where same adjoin the impervious surface of a county road or city street and
may narrow to no less than 20 feet in width at the end of 40 feet from said
impervious surface of said road or street, but shall be a minimum of 40 feet in
length beginning at the impervious surface of said road or street which said
entrance or exit adjoins, and said entrances and exits shall be surfaced in
their entirety with an acceptable impervious material to provide a durable and
dust free surface, for a minimum of 40 feet in length beginning at the
aforesaid impervious surface of said road or street. This requirement shall be
enforced in all zones, except where the use of the property on which the
entrance or exit is located is for single-family or duplex residential use only
or is for agricultural use only.
      (3)   Further, all handicapped parking spaces shall meet all minimum
federal and state standards and shall be surfaced with an acceptable impervious
material to provide a durable and dust free surface. This requirement shall be
enforced in all zones, except where the use of the property is for single-
family residential use only or is for agricultural use only.
      (4)   All other areas utilized for parking, loading, unloading and/or the
access thereto, including all driveways, aisles and other circulation areas
shall be surfaced with white rock or with an acceptable impervious material.
This requirement shall be enforced in all zones, except where the use of the
property is for single-family residential use only or is for agricultural use
only.
   (D)   Drainage for parking, loading, unloading and vehicular access areas.
All parking and loading areas shall provide for proper drainage of surface
water to prevent the drainage of such water onto adjacent properties or
walkways.
   (E)   Maintenance of parking, loading, unloading and vehicular access areas.
The owner of property used for parking and/or loading shall maintain such area
in good condition without holes and free of all dust, trash and other debris.
   (F)   Lighting of parking, loading, unloading and vehicular access areas.
Any parking area which is intended to be used during non-daylight hours shall
be properly illuminated to avoid accidents. Any lighting devices used to
illuminate a parking area shall be placed or directed so as to permit the beams
or illumination to be directed or beamed away from a public street, highway,
sidewalk or adjacent premises so as to minimize glare or reflection that may
constitute a traffic hazard or nuisance.
   (G)   Screening and/or landscaping of parking, loading, unloading and
vehicular access areas. Whenever a parking area is located in or adjacent to a
residential district, it shall be effectively screened on all sides which
adjoin or face any property used for residential purposes by an acceptably
designed wall, fence or planting screen. Such fence, wall or planting screen
shall not be less than four feet nor more than six feet in height and shall be
maintained in good condition. The space between such fence, wall or planting
screen and the lot line of the adjoining property in any residential district
shall be landscaped with grass, shrubs or evergreen ground cover, and
maintained in good condition. In the event that the terrain or other natural
features are such that the erection of such fence, wall or planting screen will
not serve its intended purpose, then no such fence, wall or planting screen
shall be required.
   (H)   Access and aisle requirements.
      (1)   All parking areas shall be designed in such a manner that any
vehicle entering or exiting from or onto a public or private street shall be
traveling in a forward motion. Access driveways for parking areas or loading
spaces shall be located in such a way that any vehicle entering or exiting such
lot shall be clearly visible for a reasonable distance to any pedestrian or
motorist approaching the access from a public or private street
      (2)   The exits and entrances to the parking area shall be clearly
marked. The minimum width of aisles providing interior vehicular circulation to
individual parking spaces shall be as specified below. Only one-way traffic
shall be permitted in aisles serving single-row parking spaces at any angle
other than 90 degrees.
Parking Angle Aisle Width (feet)
Parking Angle Aisle Width (feet)
Parallel      13
30-degree     13
45-degree     13
60-degree     18
90-degree     24
Two-way       24
Parking areas having more than one aisle or driveway shall have directional
signs or markings in each aisle or driveway
 
   (I)   Striping requirements. All parking areas with a capacity of over 12
vehicles shall be striped with double lines six inches both sides of center
between stalls to facilitate movement into and out of parking stalls.
   (J)   Wheel blocks. Whenever a parking lot extends to the property line,
wheel blocks or other suitable devices shall be installed to prevent any part
of a parked vehicle from extending beyond the property line.
   (K)   Disabled vehicles. The parking of a disabled vehicle without current
license tags within a residential or commercial district for a period of more
than two weeks shall be prohibited, unless such vehicle is stored in a garage
or other accessory building.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005; Ord. 4.9.13, passed 4-9-2013) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.171 PARKING, STORAGE OR USE OF MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   For purposes of these regulations, MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT is defined
as including boats and boat trailers, travel trailers, pick-up campers or
coaches (designed to be mounted on automotive vehicles), motorized dwellings,
tent trailers and the like, and cases or boxes used for transporting
recreational equipment, whether occupied by such equipment or not. No major
recreational equipment shall be parked or stored on any lot in a residential
district except in a carport or enclosed building or in the required off-street
parking area so long as it does not extend beyond the building setback line.
However, such equipment may be parked anywhere on residential premises for a
period not to exceed 24 hours during loading or unloading. No such equipment
shall be used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes when parked or
stored on a residential lot, or in any location not approved for such use.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.172 LOCAL ORDINANCES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to be in conflict with any
other city or county ordinances regarding the parking of vehicles on city
streets or county roads or regarding abandoned vehicles and/or nuisance
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
§ 154.185 INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote and protect the public health,
welfare and safety by regulating existing and proposed outdoor advertising,
outdoor advertising signs and outdoor signs of all types. It is intended to
protect property values, create a more attractive economic and business
climate, enhance and protect the physical appearance of the community, and
preserve the scenic and natural beauty of designated areas. It is further
intended to reduce sign and advertising distraction and obstructions that may
contribute to traffic accidents, reduce hazards that may be caused by signs
overhanging or projecting over public rights-of-way, provide more open space,
and curb the deterioration of the natural environment and enhance community
development.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.186 GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Billboards. For the purpose of this chapter, BILLBOARDS shall be
defined as a freestanding sign advertising a business, commodity, service,
activity or entertainment not taking place on the premises upon which the
billboard is located.
   (B)   Signs.
      (1)   Setbacks. All signs, unless other wise specified in this chapter,
shall be set back from the established right-of-way of any road or highway at
least as far as three-quarters of the required front yard depth for the
principal building in the zone in which it is located.
      (2)   Real estate signs. No sign, other than real estate signs
advertising the sale, rental or leasing of the premises, shall be permitted in
any residential zone except as provided in §
154.187. Said real estate signs shall not exceed two feet by three feet in
area, with the exception of the sign at the sale site which shall not exceed
four feet by six feet; said signs shall be displayed at least ten feet from all
lot lines.
      (3)   Projecting signs. No projecting sign shall be erected or maintained
from the front or face of any building for a distance greater than two feet,
including those projecting from the face of any theater, hotel or motel
marquee. No sign shall be placed on the roof of any building. Awnings shall be
construed as part of the building to which they are attached and a sign may be
mounted flush thereto.
      (4)   Banners and pennants. No sign or part thereof shall contain or
consist of banners, posters, pennants, ribbons, streamers, spinners or other
similar moving devices.
      (5)   Window signs. No sign of any classification shall be installed,
erected or attached in any form, shape or manner to a fire escape or any door
or window giving access to any fire escape nor shall any sign be erected or
maintained in the window of a building, visible from any public or private
street or highway, shall occupy more than 20% of any window surface.
      (6)   Wall signs. No building wall shall be used for display of
advertising except that pertaining to the use carried on within such building.
   (C)   Illuminated signs.
      (1)   Any illuminated sign or lighting device shall employ only light
emitting a constant intensity. In no event shall an illuminated sign or
lighting device be placed or directed so as to permit the beams or Summation to
be directed or beamed upon a public street, highway, sidewalk or adjacent
premises so as to cause glare or reflection that may constitute a traffic
hazard or nuisance nor shall any sign be erected or maintained which would
involve lighting or motion resembling traffic or directional signals or
warnings or display words such as “stop” or “danger.”
      (2)   All wiring, fittings and materials used in construction, connection
and operation of the electrically illuminated signs shall be in accordance with
the provisions of the National Electric Code or the local electric code in
effect.
   (D)   Temporary signs. All temporary signs must be set back a minimum of 10
feet from the edge of the pavement and may not be located in any public right-
of-way. Political and yard sale signs shall not exceed four feet by eight feet
in size and must abide by all regulations regarding visibility at intersections
in §
154.128. Under no circumstances shall political or yard sale signs be posted on
utility poles. All violations of these requirements will be penalized as per §
154.024. Provisions regarding the regulation of other temporary signs apply as
required in other sections of this subchapter.
   (E)   Government signs. Any official informational or directional sign or
historic marker erected by a governmental agency is permitted in all zones and
does not require a location or building permit
   (F)   Sign area. The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including
the entire area within a regular geometric form or combinations of regular
geometric forms comprising all of the display area of the sign and including
all of the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not
being advertising matter shall not be included in computation of surface area.
   (G)   Lack of conflict. In no way shall the provisions of this subchapter be
taken to be in conflict with and state or federal regulations regarding
obstructions or the placement of structures in state or federal rights-of-way.
In all cases, the most restrictive provision will apply.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.187 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Signs are permitted in residential districts only in accordance with the
following provisions.
   (A)   Signs pertaining to the lease or sale of a building or land may be
erected temporarily as provided in §
154.186(B).
   (B)   Temporary signs, for one year, may be erected to advertise a new
subdivision of five or more lots, provided that the sign is no larger than 40
square feet in area, is not internally illuminated, advertises only the
subdivision in which it is located and is erected only at a dedicated street
entrance. Permanent signs for the same purpose and with the same other
restrictions are additionally limited to a size no greater than 20 square feet
in area.
   (C)   One non-illuminated sign may be erected in conjunction with the
construction of a building to identify the owner, architect, engineer,
contractor and others instrumental in the construction of the building provided
that such sign is not more than 12 square feet in area, no more than ten feet
above the ground, and is removed within 30 days of receiving the certificate of
occupancy.
   (D)   One identifying sign of not more than 15 square feet in area may be
erected for churches and/or other places of worship, libraries, schools, parks,
hospitals for human care, social clubs, societies and other public facilities
of a similar nature. Such sign shall be solely for the purpose of displaying
the name of the institution and its activities or services and shall be located
on the premises of such institution. It may be illuminated but shall not be
flashing. Such sign shall be erected not less than ten feet from the
established right-of-way line of any street or highway provided such sign does
not obstruct traffic visibility at street-or highway intersections.
   (E)   Directional signs, not exceeding two square feet in area shall be
permitted only on major thoroughfare approaches to institutions listed in
division (D) above. No such signs shall be permitted on minor residential
streets.
   (F)   One indirectly lighted name plate sign for a dwelling group of four or
more dwellings not exceeding two feet by three feet in area. Such signs may
indicate only the names of the buildings or of the occupant of the buildings.
   (G)   Accessory uses for home occupations as specified in the definitions of
this chapter and in Section 661 shall permit one non-illuminated name plate/
sign not over two square feet in area mounted flat against the outside wall of
the main or accessory building.
   (H)   Freestanding signs shall not exceed a height of 25 feet.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.188 COMMERCIAL/PROFESSIONAL OFFICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   In all business districts, each business shall be permitted to have
permanent outside signs.
   (B)   Signs permitted under this section shall be limited to those as
described below.
      (1)   Each business shall be entitled to have one sign which is mounted
flush against a building. The depth of such a sign from a face to the building
shall not exceed two feet. The area of such a flush mount sign shall be limited
to a total surface area equivalent to one and one-half square feet of sign area
for each lineal foot of building width occupied by such enterprise. In the
event that the area shall exceed 50 square feet, then an additional application
must be made and approved by the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning
Commission. Awnings shall be construed as part of the building to which they
are attached and a sign may be mounted flush thereto.
      (2)   Additionally, one freestanding sign structure shall be permitted
for each lot of 100-foot frontage or less and one additional structure for each
additional 100 feet of lot frontage. Any such freestanding sign structures in a
C/PO District shall be no more than 72 square feet in area nor shall two or
more smaller signs be so arranged and integrated as to create a single sign in
excess of 72 square feet
         (a)   The dimensions of any two-faced or multi-sided sign must be
determined by measuring the surface area on one side of the sign. Free standing
signs shall not exceed a height of 50 feet in the C/PO District.
         (b)   All freestanding signs designed to face into a residential
district shall be located 50 feet or more from the residential district.
         (c)   If a business is adjacent to more than one street or highway,
additional freestanding signs may be allowed upon application to and receiving
approval of the same from the Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission.
      (3)   Each neighborhood business area built as a Planned Unit Development
may have one freestanding identification sign for each street on which it
fronts, set back at least 25 feet from the front property line and presenting
only the name of the shopping center, the businesses located therein, and the
hours of business. Each such sign shall not exceed 300 square feet in area.
      (4)   Real estate signs advertising the sale, rental or leasing of the
premises, shall be permitted in any business zone provided that such signs
shall not exceed four feet by three feet in area and shall be displayed at
least ten feet from all lot lines.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.189 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   All signs permitted in business districts are also permitted in the I-
1 District and subject to the requirements thereof.
   (B)   One sign structure for identification and direction purposes may be
erected at access points to public streets provided that such signs are no
larger than 50 square feet in area.
   (C)   Freestanding sign structures shall not exceed a height of 30 feet.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.190 MAINTENANCE.
   Should any sign be or become unsafe or be in danger of falling, the owner
thereof or the person maintaining the same, shall upon receipt of written
notice from the Administrative Official, proceed at once to put such a sign in
a safe and secure condition, or remove the sign.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.191 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In any case any sign shall be installed, erected, constructed or
maintained in violation of any of the terms of this chapter, the
Administrative/ Enforcement Officer shall notify in writing the owner or lessee
thereof to alter such sign so as to comply with this chapter.
   (B)   Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
be deemed a violation, and shall be punishable under §
154.024.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 154.205 OBJECTIVES FOR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the county to promote progressive
development of land and construction thereon by encouraging planned unit
developments (P.U.D.s) to achieve a maximum choice of living environments by
allowing a variety of housing and building types and permitting an increased
density per acre and a reduction in lot dimensions, building setbacks and area
requirements; a more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas, and if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in location of accessory
commercial uses and services; a development pattern which preserves and
utilizes natural topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and
other vegetation, and prevents disruption of natural drainage patterns; a more
efficient use of land that is generally achieved through conventional
development resulting in substantial savings through shorter utilities and
streets; and a development pattern in harmony with land use density and
community faculties objectives. All planned unit development projects shall be
subject to the following regulations.
   (B)   The county area also prepared to accept a greater population density
in undeveloped areas than that reflected by proposed land uses in the
Comprehensive Plan provided the developer can demonstrate that any increment of
public cost clearly attributable to increased densities will be compensated for
by the private amenities and public benefits to be achieved by the plan of
development.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.206 PROVISIONS GOVERNING PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   Because of the special characteristics of planned unit developments, special
provisions governing the development of land for this purpose are required.
Whenever there is a conflict or difference between the provisions of this
subchapter of the ordinance, and those of other articles of the ordinance, the
provisions of this subchapter shall prevail for the development of land for
planned unit developments. Subjects not covered by this subchapter shall be
governed by the respective provisions found elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.207 USES PERMITTED.
   Compatible residential, commercial, industrial, public and quasi-public uses
may be combined in P.U.D. areas provided that the proposed location of the
commercial or industrial uses will not adversely affect adjacent property, and/
or the public health, safety and general welfare. Lot area and other yard
requirements of the residential districts established in §§
154.075 through
154.090 shall apply except as modified in §
154.212.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.208 PROJECT OWNERSHIP.
   The project land may be owned, leased or controlled either by a single
person or corporation, or by a group of individuals or corporations. Such
ownership may be by a public or private corporation.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.209 COMMON OPEN SPACE AND DISPOSITION THEREOF.
   (A)   A minimum of 20% of the land developed in any planned unit development
project shall be reserved for common open space and recreational facilities for
the residents or users of the area being developed. The required amount of
common open space land reserved under a planned unit development shall either
be held in corporate ownership by owners of the project area for the use of
each owner who buys property within the development or be dedicated to the
county and retained as common open space for parks, recreation, and related
uses. All land dedicated to the county must meet the Planning Commission’s
requirements as to size, shape and location.
   (B)   Public utility and similar easements and rights-of-way, for water
courses and other similar channels are not acceptable for common open space
dedication to the county, unless such land or right-of-way is usable as a trail
or other similar purpose and approved by the Planning Commission. The
responsibility for the maintenance of all open spaced shall be specified by the
developer before approval of the final development plan.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.210 MAINTENANCE WITHIN RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   The Fiscal Court will not be responsible for any landscaping within
dedicated rights-of-way, including, but not limited to, landscaped islands,
entrances, trees and turf.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.211 UTILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Underground utilities, including telephone and electrical systems, are
required within the limits of all planned unit developments. Appurtenances to
these systems which can be effectively screened may be excepted from this
requirement if the Planning Commission finds that such exemption will not
violate the intent or character of the proposed planned unit development.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.212 MINIMUM PROJECT AREA.
   (A)   The gross area of a tract of land to be developed in a planned unit
development district shall be a minimum of ten acres, provided however, that
smaller parcels may be considered on the basis of their potential to satisfy
the objectives of this subchapter as stated in §
154.205.
   (B)   When the planned unit development proposes a mixture of residential
uses with commercial, professional and/or industrial uses, the Planning
Commission may limit the development to not more than 8% of the tract to
commercial/professional uses and not more than 12% of the tract to light
industrial uses.
      (1)   Minimum lot sizes. Lot area per dwelling unit may be reduced by not
more than 40% of the minimum lot area required in the district regulations in
§§
154.075 through
154.090 on sanitary sewer. A planned unit development need not conform to the
density requirements of §§
154.075 through
154.090 on sanitary sewer. A diversification of lot sizes is encouraged on
sanitary sewer. Lots widths may be varied to allow for a variety of structural
design. It is also recommended that setbacks be varied.
      (2)   Height requirements. For each foot of building height over the
maximum height regulations specified in §§
154.075 through
154.090, the distance between such buildings and the side or rear property
lines of the planned unit development project area shall be increased by one
foot addition to the side and rear yard required in the districts.
      (3)   Parking. Off-street parking, loading and service areas shall be
provided in accordance with §§
154.165 through
154.172. However, off-street parking and loading areas shall not be permitted
within 15 feet of any residential use and shall be screened with fence or
vegetation approved by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Perimeter yards. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subchapter,
every lot abutting the perimeter of the planned unit development district shall
maintain all yard requirements specified in §§
154.075 through
154.090 for the applicable conventional zoning district.
      (5)   Lots to abut upon common open space. Every property developed under
the planned unit development approach should be designed to abut upon common
open space or similar areas. A clustering of dwellings is encouraged. In areas
where townhouses are used, there shall be no more than eight townhouse units in
any contiguous group.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.213 PROCEDURE FOR APPLICATION AND APPROVAL OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All proposed planned unit development shall follow the procedure for
plat preparation and subdivision approval as set forth in the county
subdivision regulations (
Chapter 153). In addition, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the preliminary plat of the proposed planned unit development to aid them in
deciding the merits of the proposed project.
      (1)   Nothing herein should be construed to mean that the land owner has
the inherit right to develop a planned unit development. The Planning
Commission has the power to decide whether or not to allow the planned unit
development based on their experience, knowledge, public hearing and the
standards set forth herein. Accompanying all preliminary plats shall be
calculations for overall density, parking requirements and other material the
Commission may reasonably require.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission approves the preliminary the developer
may proceed with activities leading to final plat approval providing that the
project shall be developed in conformance with the approved preliminary plat.
   (B)   Upon approval by the Planning Commission and Fiscal Court, as
appropriate, a planned unit development district may be applied to any existing
residential district. Upon approval of a final development plan, the Official
Zoning Map shall be annotated for the land area involved so that the district
name includes the notation, “P.U.D.”
   (C)   A building permit shall be required for each building in accordance
with §§
154.020 through
154.025. Approval of a planned unit development shall expire if no-substantial
work on the site has begun within six months of original approval or if the
project is abandoned for more than twenty-four consecutive months. Abandonment
shall be deemed to have occurred when no improvements have been made pursuant
to the approved planned unit development plat. All approved planned unit
development plats shall be recorded with a certificate of land use restriction
in the County Clerk’s office per KRS 100.3681.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
DEVELOPMENT PLANS
§ 154.225 GENERAL.
   This section sets forth the content and procedure for submission, review and
approval of all development plans called for by the Planning Commission. The
Commission shall require the submission and approval of a preliminary and/or
final development plan for all zone map amendments; provided, that the
Commission may allow preliminary and final subdivision plats to be submitted in
lieu of the development plan as appropriate for residential zones. The
Commission shall require the submission and approval of a preliminary and/or a
final development plan for all proposed developments. Decisions shall be based
upon findings that there are existing or potential flood, drainage, traffic,
topographic or other similar problems relating to the development of the
subject property that could have an adverse effect on existing or future
development of the subject property in the vicinity. A development that is
proposed to be developed in phases will require the submission of an overall
conceptual development plan for the entire proposal which shall accompany the
preliminary and final detailed development plan for each phase. Approved
development plans shall be a covenant running with the parcel.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.226 PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLANS REQUIRED.
   Preliminary development plans shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
and shall then contain all information required by §
154.228. A public hearing on a zone map amendment shall not be closed until the
preliminary development plan has been submitted to the Commission and
recommended for approval or disapproval. If the preliminary development plan is
disapproved or if the Commission fails to approve or disapprove the plan and
the map amendment is subsequently approved by Fiscal Court, the Commission
shall approve a development plan for the subject property which shall be the
final development plan.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.227 FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLANS REQUIRED.
   Final development plans required herein shall be submitted within two years
of the approval of the preliminary development plans and the Commission shall
approve a final development plan for the subject property with such conditions
as are found necessary to comply with the provisions of this chapter, if any,
within 90 days after the applicant has submitted a complete final development
plan.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.228 CONTENTS OF PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The Planning Commission may require any or all of the following items to be
included in the development plan:
   (A)   Vicinity sketch;
   (B)   Topography with contour interval of five feet or less;
   (C)   Location, arrangement and approximate dimensions of existing and
proposed driveways, streets, sidewalks, parking areas and layout of spaces,
points of ingress and egress, and other vehicular and pedestrian rights-of-way;
   (D)   Screening, landscaping, buffering, recreational and other open space
areas;
   (E)   Approximate size, location, height, floor area, building area,
arrangement and proposed use of existing buildings and signs;
   (F)   Proposed design of storm drainage areas and facilities;
   (G)   Proposed and existing easements; and
   (H)   Traffic impact study.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.229 CONTENTS OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Vicinity sketch;
   (B)   Topography with contour interval of two feet or less;
   (C)   Boundary features such as bearings and dimensions of all property
lines;
   (D)   Size, location, height, floor area, building area and arrangement of
proposed and existing buildings and signs;
   (E)   Screening, landscaping, buffering, recreational and other open space
areas showing dimensions of and materials of fences, planting, buffer and other
open areas;
   (F)   Location, arrangement and dimensions of existing and proposed
driveways, streets and street cross section drawings, sidewalks, parking areas
including a number of off-street parking spaces, points of ingress-egress, off-
street loading areas and other vehicular and pedestrian rights-of-way;
   (G)   Utilities information on existing and proposed water, gas, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, including location of easements, size of lines and
location of appurtenances;
   (H)   Location, dimension and design details for proposed storm drainage
areas and facilities;
   (I)   Location and dimensions of other existing or proposed easements; and
   (J)   Statistical summary of above items.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.230 APPROVAL OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN BEFORE BUILDING PERMIT.
   When the Planning Commission has required a development plan to be submitted
no building permit shall be issued until the final development plan is approved
by the Commission and a copy of said plan is certified by the Chairperson and
Secretary of the Commission. The approval of the final development plan shall
limit and control the issuance of all building permits, and restrict the
construction, location and use of all land and structures to the conditions set
forth in the plan.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.231 AMENDMENTS TO DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Amendments to approved development plans can be made only by official
Planning Commission action.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS
§ 154.245 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of these regulations are:
   (A)   To provide for the safest and most efficient integration of cellular
antenna towers for cellular telecommunications services or personal
communications services within the community;
   (B)   To provide for such facilities in coordination with the
recommendations of the comprehensive plan; and
   (C)   To allow for such faculties with the intention of furthering the
public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.246 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Applicants are encouraged to notify the Planning Commission to discuss
proposals, allow for early coordination and to identify those items which are
in conformance/nonconformance with the adopted Comprehensive Plan, zoning
ordinance and the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   A tower constructed for, or an existing facility that has been adapted
for, the location of transmission or related equipment to be used in the
provision of cellular telecommunications services or personal communication
services; except towers constructed or adapted for internet services.
Applications and all inspections for towers constructed or adapted for internet
services shall be made through and by the County Fiscal Court.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005; Ord. passed 8-23-2011)
§ 154.247 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNAS OR RELATED EQUIPMENT. Transmitting, receiving or other equipment
used to support cellular telecommunications service or personal communications
service. This definition does not include towers.
   CELLULAR ANTENNA TOWER. A tower constructed for, or an existing facility
that has been adapted for, the location of transmission or related equipment to
be used in the provision of cellular telecommunications services or personal
communications services.
   CELLULAR TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE. A retail telecommunications service that
uses radio signals transmitted through cell sites and mobile switching
stations.
   CO-LOCATION. Locating two or more transmission antennas or related equipment
on the same cellular antenna tower or other applicable structure.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A presentation in the form of sketches, maps and drawings
(plans and profiles) of a proposed use and/or structure by the owner or
developer of the land which sets forth in detail the intended development,
according to the standards and procedures in these regulations.
   PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The meaning as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 332
(c).
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Lincoln County/Cedar Creek Planning Commission.
   UNIFORM APPLICATION. An application to construct a cellular antenna tower
submitted to a Planning Commission in conformity with KRS 100.9865 and KRS
100.987.
   UTILITY. The meaning as defined in KRS 278.010(3).
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.248 GENERAL.
   Cellular antenna towers for cellular telecommunications services or personal
communications services may be allowed in any zone after review by the Planning
Commission in accordance with the following procedures to ascertain agreement
with the adopted Comprehensive Plan and the regulations contained within this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.249 APPLICABILITY.
   Every utility, or a company that is engaged in the business of providing the
required infrastructure to a utility, that proposes to construct an antenna
tower for cellular telecommunications services or personal communications
services shall submit a completed uniform application to the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall not regulate the placement of
antennas or related equipment on an existing structure (co-location).
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.250 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Applications for the construction of cellular antenna towers for cellular
telecommunications services or personal communications services shall include
the following:
   (A)   The full name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   The applicant’s articles of incorporation, if applicable;
   (C)   A geotechnical investigation report, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in the state, that includes boring logs and
foundation design recommendations;
   (D)   A written report, prepared by a professional engineer or land
surveyor, of findings as to the proximity of the proposed site to flood hazard
areas;
   (E)   Clear directions from the City of Stanford to the proposed site,
including highway numbers and street names, if applicable, with the telephone
number of the person who prepared the directions;
   (F)   The lease or sale agreement for the property on which the tower is
proposed to be located, except that if the agreement has been filed in
abbreviated form with the County Clerk, an applicant may file a copy of the
agreement as recorded by the County Clerk and, if applicable, the portion of
the agreement that specifies, in the case of abandonment, a method that the
utility will follow in dismantling and removing the proposed cellular antenna
tower including a timetable for removal;
   (G)   The identity and qualifications of each person directly responsible
for the design and construction of the proposed tower;
   (H)   A (site) development plan or survey, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in the state, that shows the proposed location
of the tower and all easements and existing structures within 500 feet of the
proposed site on the property on which the tower will be located, and all
easements and existing structures within 200 feet of the access drive,
including the intersection with the public street system;
   (I)   A vertical profile sketch of the tower, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in the state, indicating the height of the
tower and the placement of all antennas;
   (J)   The tower and foundation design plans and a description of the
standard according to which the tower was designed, signed and sealed by a
professional engineer registered in the state;
   (K)   A map, drawn to a scale no less than one inch equals 200 feet, that
identifies every structure and every owner of real estate within 500 feet of
the proposed tower:
      (1)   Notified by certified mail, return receipt requested of the
proposed construction which notice shall include a map of the location of the
proposed construction;
      (2)   Given the telephone number and address of the local Planning
Commission; and
      (3)   Informed of his or her right to participate in the Planning
Commission’s proceedings on the application.
   (L)   A list of the property owners who received the notice, together with
copies of the certified letters sent to the listed property owners;
   (M)   A statement that the chief executive officer of the appropriate and
affected local government and the legislative body have been notified, in
writing, of the proposed construction;
   (N)   A copy of the notice sent to the chief executive officer of the
appropriate and affected local government and the legislative body (see
division (M) above);
   (O)   A statement that:
      (1)   A written notice, of durable material at least two feet by four
feet in size, stating that “[Name of applicant] proposes to construct a
telecommunications tower on this site” and including the addresses and
telephone numbers of the applicant and the Planning Commission, has been posted
in a visible location on the proposed site; and
      (2)   A written notice, at least two feet by four feet in size, stating
that “[Name of applicant] proposes to construct a telecommunications tower near
this site” and including the addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant
and the Planning Commission, has been posted on the public road nearest the
site.
   (P)   A statement that notice of the location of the proposed construction
has been published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which
the construction is proposed;
   (Q)   A brief description of the character of the general area in which the
tower is proposed to be constructed, which includes the existing land use and
zoning for the specific property involved;
   (R)   A statement that the applicant has considered the likely effects of
the installation on nearby land uses and values and has concluded that there is
no more suitable location reasonably available from which adequate service to
the area can be provided, and that there is no reasonably available opportunity
to locate its antennas and related facilities on an existing structure (i.e.,
co-locate), including documentation of attempts to locate its antennas and
related facilities on an existing structure, if any, with supporting radio
frequency analysis, where applicable, and a statement indicating that the
applicant attempted to locate its antennas and related facilities on a tower
designed to host multiple wireless service providers’ facilities or on an
existing structure, such as a telecommunications tower or other suitable
structure capable of supporting the applicant’s antennas and related
facilities;
   (S)   A map of the area in which the tower is proposed to be located, that
is drawn to scale, and that clearly depicts the necessary search area within
which an antenna tower should, pursuant to radio frequency requirements, be
located; and
   (T)   A grid map that shows the location of all existing cellular antenna
towers and that indicates the general position of proposed construction sites
for new cellular antenna towers within an area that includes:
      (1)   All of the planning unit’s jurisdiction; and
      (2)   A one-half mile area outside of the boundaries of the planning
unit’s jurisdiction, if that area contains either existing or proposed
construction sites for cellular antenna towers.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.251 CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   All information contained in the application and any updates, except
for any map or other information that specifically identifies the proposed
location of the cellular antenna tower then being reviewed, shall be deemed
confidential and proprietary within the meaning of KRS 61.878. The Planning
Commission shall deny any public request for the inspection of this
information, whether submitted under the state’s Open Records Act or otherwise,
except when ordered to release the information by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of official
misconduct in the second degree as provided under KRS 522.030. The
confidentiality of the applications and any updates of the application can be
waived by the written authorization of the applicant.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.252 APPLICATION FEE.
   An applicant for the construction of cellular antenna towers for cellular
telecommunications services or personal communications services shall pay an
application fee in the amount of $1,700 upon submission of a uniform
application. This fee includes review of the Planning Commission based upon the
required development plan, review of the Planning Commission for grading and
construction plans as defined by the subdivision regulations (
Chapter 153), review and permitting by the Building Department, and review and
permitting by the Electrical Inspector’s Office.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.253 PROCESSING OF APPLICATION.
   Applications for the construction of cellular antenna towers for cellular
telecommunications services or personal communications services shall be
processed as follows.
   (A)   At least one public hearing on the proposal shall be held, at which
hearing interested parties and citizens shall have the opportunity to be heard.
Notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published at least once,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county, provided that one
publication occurs not less than seven calendar days nor more than 21 calendar
days before the occurrence of such hearing.
   (B)   Notice of the proposal shall be posted on the site at least 14 days in
advance of the hearing. Such notice shall consist of a written notice, of
durable material at least two feet by four feet in size, stating that “[Name of
applicant] proposes to construct a telecommunications tower on this site” and
including the addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant and the Planning
Commission. Notice of the proposal shall also be posted on the public road
nearest the site. Such notice shall consist of a written notice, of durable
material at least two feet by four feet in size, stating that “[Name of
applicant] proposes to construct a telecommunications tower near this site” and
including the addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant and the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Notice of the hearing shall be given at least 14 days in advance of
the hearing, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner of every
parcel of property within 500 feet of the proposed tower or property contiguous
to the site upon which the tower is proposed to be constructed. Said notice
shall include a map of the location of the proposed construction, the telephone
number and address of the Planning Commission and shall inform the addressee of
his or her right to participate in the Planning Commission’s proceedings on the
application. Records maintained by the Property Valuation Administrator may be
relied upon conclusively to determine the identity and address of said owner.
In the event such property is in condominium or cooperative forms of ownership,
then the person notified by mail shall be the president or chairperson of the
owner group which administers property commonly owned by the condominium or
cooperative owners. A joint notice may be mailed to two or more co-owners of an
adjoining property who are listed in the Property Valuation Administrator’s
records as having the same address.
   (D)   Upon holding such hearing, the Planning Commission shall, within 60
days commencing from the date that the application is received by the Planning
Commission, or within a date specified in a written agreement between the
Planning Commission and the applicant, make its final decision to approve or
disapprove the uniform application. If the Planning Commission fails to issue a
final decision within 60 days, and if there is no written agreement between the
Planning Commission and the utility to a specific date for the Planning
Commission to issue a decision, it shall be presumed that the Planning
Commission has approved the utility’s uniform application.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.254 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The applicant shall provide information demonstrating compliance with
the following requirements. Where the Planning Commission finds that
circumstances or conditions relating to the particular application are such
that one or more of the requirements listed below are not necessary or
desirable for the protection of surrounding property or the public health,
safety and general welfare, and that such special conditions or circumstances
make one or more said requirements unreasonable, the Planning Commission, or
its duly authorized representative, may modify or waive such requirement,
either permanently or on a temporary basis.
   (B)   Any such modification or waiver shall be requested by the applicant,
and the applicant shall submit a written justification for each requested
modification or waiver.
      (1)   Monopole cellular antenna towers shall be permitted in any zone.
Lattice and guyed cellular antenna towers shall be permitted in any zone except
for residential zones. Monopole cellular antenna towers in residential zones
shall be limited to 100 feet in height, unless otherwise approved by the
Planning Commission as approved as a variance request and as part of the
required development plan.
      (2)   Lattice and guyed cellular antenna towers constructed in an
agricultural zone shall be located a minimum distance of not less than 250 feet
from all existing residential structures.
      (3)   Setbacks for all structures constructed in connection with cellular
antenna towers, except fences and/or guy wires, shall be a minimum distance
from the property line or lease line equal to the setback of the respective
district plus one-half the height of the tower. All structures constructed in
connection with stealth towers shall comply with the applicable setback
requirements established for other structures within the applicable zoning
district. Stealth towers that are to be located as part of a utility service
facility (e.g., power pole or telephone pole) shall comply with setback
requirements applicable to such utility service facilities, if any. No tower
may be located closer than 50 feet to any property line.
      (4)   A cellular antenna tower, or alternative antenna tower structure,
may be constructed to a maximum height of 200 feet regardless of the maximum
height requirements listed in the specific zoning district. This also applies
to any tower taller than 15 feet constructed on the top of another building or
structure, with the height being the overall height of building/structure and
tower together, measured from the grade at ground level to the highest point of
the tower. The Planning Commission may allow antennas greater than 200 feet in
height upon review of the applicant’s justification that the additional height
meets the criteria identified in §
154.255.
      (4)   The cellular antenna tower shall be constructed in compliance with
the current ANSI/EIA/TIA 222-F standards and other applicable state standards.
      (5)   Cellular antenna towers shall not be illuminated, except in
accordance with other state or federal regulations.
      (6)   The site shall be unstaffed or unmanned. Personnel may periodically
visit the site for maintenance, equipment modification, or repairs. To
accommodate such visits, ingress/egress shall only be from approved access
points as shown on the approved development plan subject to the entrance
requirements outlined in the Subdivision and Development Regulations of KYTC
(where applicable).
      (7)   Woven wire or chain link (80% open) or solid fences made from wood
or other materials (less than 50% open) shall be used to enclose the site. Such
fences shall not be more than eight feet in height. The use of barbed wire or
sharp pointed fences shall be prohibited. Such fence may be located within the
front, side or rear yard.
      (8)   Screening shall be provided by evergreen trees, with a minimum
height of six feet, planted in a staggered pattern at a maximum distance of ten
feet on center.
         (a)   The Director of Development Services may increase the distance
between plantings based on the type (species) of evergreen tree and its growth
characteristics.
         (b)   The screening shall be placed in an area between the property
line, or lease line, and a ten-foot setback.
         (c)   A break in the hedge, not to exceed 15 feet in width, shall be
allowed for access of maintenance personnel and vehicles.
      (9)   Surfacing of all driveways and off-street parking areas shall
comply with the requirements of the applicable subdivision regulations and be
at least constructed of gravel or other durable surface. The Planning
Commission may require alternative surface materials based on grade,
construction and potential for erosion.
      (10)   There shall be no signs permitted, except those displaying
emergency information, owner contact information, warning or safety
instructions, or signs which are required by a federal, state or local agency.
Such signs shall not exceed five square feet in area.
      (11)   All new cellular antenna towers shall be designed and constructed
to accommodate a minimum of three service providers.
      (12)   All option and site lease agreements shall not prohibit the
possibility of co-location.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.255 CRITERIA.
   (A)   Approval or disapproval of the proposal shall be based upon an
evaluation of the proposal’s agreement with the Comprehensive Plan, zoning
ordinance and applicable subdivision regulations.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may require the applicant to make a reasonable
attempt to co-locate additional transmitting or related equipment.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may provide the location of existing
cellular antenna towers on which the Commission deems the applicant can
successfully co-locate its transmitting and related equipment.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission requires the applicant to attempt co-
location, the applicant shall provide the Planning Commission with a statement
indicating that the applicant has:
         (a)   Successfully attempted to co-locate on towers designed to host
multiple wireless service providers’ facilities or existing structures such as
a telecommunications tower or another suitable structure capable of supporting
the applicant’s facilities, and that identifies the location of the tower or
suitable structure on which the applicant will co-locate its transmission and
related facilities; or
         (b)   Unsuccessfully attempted to co-locate on towers designed to host
multiple wireless service provider’s facilities or existing structures such as
a telecommunications tower or another suitable structure capable of supporting
the applicants facilities and that:
            1.   Identifies the location of the towers or other structures on
which the applicant attempted to co-locate; and
            2.   Lists the reasons why the co-location was unsuccessful in each
instance.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may deny a uniform application to construct
a cellular antenna tower based on an applicant’s unwillingness to attempt to
co-locate additional transmitting or related equipment on any new or existing
towers or other structures.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall not regulate the placement, of a
cellular antenna tower on the basis of the environmental effects of radio
frequency emissions to the extent that the proposed facility complies with the
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission concerning radio frequency
emissions.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.270 GENERAL.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare or good zoning
practices require, the legislative body may, by ordinance, after receiving a
recommendation thereon from the Planning Commission, and subject to procedures
by law, amend, supplement, change or repeal the regulations, restrictions and
boundaries or classification of property.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.271 APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT.
   A proposal for amendment to the official zoning map may originate with the
Planning Commission, the Fiscal Court, any other governmental body, the owner
of the subject property, or by a person having written authorization from the
owner of the subject property. A proposal for amendment to the text of this
chapter may originate with any person or governmental body. Regardless of the
origin of the proposed amendment an application must be filed with the Planning
Commission requesting the proposed amendment in such form and accompanied by
such information as required by this chapter and the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission may require the prior submission of a development plan
prepared in accordance with §§
154.225 through
154.231, which when approved by the Commission, shall be followed. At the time
of filing an application, a non-returnable filing fee shall be paid according
to the schedule of fees; however, there shall be no filing fee for an amendment
requested by the Fiscal Court, the Planning Commission or any governmental
agency. Upon the filing of an application for a map amendment by a governmental
body, the Planning Commission shall promptly notify the owner of the subject
property by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.272 PLANNING COMMISSION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application for an amendment to the official
zoning map or the text of this chapter, the Planning Commission shall study and
review the application as provided in this chapter and the bylaws of the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall then hold at least one public hearing
after notice as required by KRS Chapter 424 and KRS Chapter 100 and shall make
findings of fact and a recommendation for approval or disapproval of the
proposed amendment to the various legislative bodies involved. A tie vote shall
be subject to further consideration by the Planning Commission for a period not
to exceed 30 days, at the end of which if the tie has not been broken, the
application shall be forwarded to the or legislative body without a
recommendation for approval or disapproval.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.273 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Notice of the time, place and reason for the required public hearing
shall be given by one publication in the newspaper of general circulation in
the county, not earlier than 21 days or later than seven days before the public
hearing in accordance with KRS 424.130 and KRS 100.211.
   (B)   Any published notice shall include the street address of the property
in question, or if one is not available or practicable due to the number of
addresses involved, a geographic description sufficient to locate and identify
the property, and the names of two streets on either side of the property which
intersect the street on which the property is located; and when the property in
question is located at the intersection of two streets, the notice shall
designate the intersection by name of both streets rather than name two streets
on either side of the property.
   (C)   (1)   When a hearing is scheduled on a proposal by a property owner to
amend any zoning map, the following notice shall be given in addition to any
other notice required by statute, local regulation or ordinance:
         (a)   Notice of the hearing shall be posted conspicuously on the
property the classification of which is proposed to be changed for 14
consecutive days immediately prior to the hearing. Posting shall be as follows:
            1.   The sign shall state “zoning change” and the proposed
classification change in letters three inches in height. The time, place and
date of hearing shall be in letters at least one inch in height;
            2.   The sign shall be constructed of durable material and shall
state the telephone number of the Planning Commission Office; and
            3.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to post the
sign conspicuously on the property. The Administrative/Enforcement Officer
shall verify to the Planning Commission at the hearing that placement occurred
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The County Planning Commission provides the required signage for
use by the property owner requesting the zone change with a refundable deposit.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing shall be given at least 14 days in advance of
the hearing by first class mail, with certification by the Commission Secretary
or other officer of the Planning Commission that the notice was mailed to an
owner of every parcel of property adjoining the property the classification of
which is proposed to be changed. It shall be the duty of the person or persons
proposing the map amendment to furnish to the Planning Commission the names and
addresses of the owners of all adjoining property. Records maintained by the
Property Valuation Administrator may be relied upon conclusively to determine
the identity and address of said owner. In the event such property is in
condominium or cooperative forms of ownership, then the person notified by mail
shall be the president or Chairperson of the owner group which administers
property commonly owned by the condominium or cooperative owners. A joint
notice may be mailed to two or more co-owners of an adjoining property who are
listed in the Property Valuation Administrator’s records as having the same
address.
   (D)   In addition to the public notice requirements of this section, when
the Planning Commission or legislative body of any planning unit originates a
proposal to amend the zoning map of that unit, notice of the public hearing
shall be given at least 30 days in advance of the hearing by first class mail
to an owner of every parcel of property the classification of which is proposed
to be changed. Records by the Property Valuation Administrator may be relied
upon to determine the identity and address of said owner.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.274 PUBLIC HEARING ON APPLICATION.
   After notice of the public hearing as provided for above, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.275 RECOMMENDATION OF COMMISSION FOR ZONING MAP AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Before recommending to the Fiscal Court that an application for
amendment to the zoning map be in granted, the Planning Commission, or the
legislative body must find that the map amendment is agreement with the
community’s Comprehensive Plan, or in the absence of such a finding, that:
      (1)   The original zoning classification given to the property was
inappropriate or improper, and that the proposed classification is proper; or
      (2)   There have been major changes of an economic, physical or social
nature within the area involved which were not anticipated in the Comprehensive
Plan adopted by the Planning Commission and which have substantially altered
the basic character of the area.
   (B)   The findings of fact and recommendation shall include a summary of the
evidence and testimony presented by the proponents and opponents of the
proposed amendment. A tie vote shall be subject to further consideration by the
Planning Commission for a period not to exceed 30 days, at the end of which if
the tie has not been broken, the application shall be forwarded to the Fiscal
Court of the legislative body without a recommendation of approval or
disapproval.
   (C)   After voting to recommend that an application for amendment to the
official zoning map be granted or denied, the Planning Commission shall forward
its findings of fact and recommendation in writing to the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.276 ACTION BY LEGISLATIVE BODY ON ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Fiscal Court shall not act upon a proposed amendment to the
official zoning map until it has received the written findings of fact and
recommendation thereon from the Planning Commission. Pursuant to KRS 100.211
(1), it shall take a majority of the entire legislative body or Fiscal Court to
override the recommendation of the Planning Commission and it shall take a
majority of the entire legislative body or Fiscal Court to adopt a zoning map
amendment whenever the Planning Commission forwards the application to the
legislative body without a recommendation of approval or disapproval due to a
tie vote. Unless a majority of the entire legislative body votes to override
the Planning Commission’s recommendation, such recommendation shall become
final and effective and if a recommendation of approval was made by the
Planning Commission, the ordinance of the Fiscal Court or legislative body
adopting the zoning map amendment shall be deemed to have passed by operation
of law.
   (B)   The Fiscal Court or the legislative body shall take final action upon
a proposed zoning map amendment within 90 days of the date upon which the
Planning Commission takes its final action upon such proposal. The legislative
body shall also notify the Administrative/Enforcement Officer and the
Chairperson of the Planning Commission as to when the proposed map amendment
will be reviewed by the legislative body prior to the legislative body’s final
action and subsequently when action has been taken. The Planning Commission
shall complete and file for recording with the County Clerk, a certificate of
land use restriction for any map amendment approved with conditions by the
Fiscal Court and/or legislative body.
   (C)   After voting to recommend that an application for amendment to the
text of this chapter be granted or denied, the Planning Commission shall
forward its recommendation in writing to the City Council and the Fiscal Court.
In the case of a proposed amendment originating with a legislative body, the
Planning Commission shall make its recommendation within 60 days of the date of
its receipt of the proposed amendment.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.277 ACTION BY LEGISLATIVE BODIES FOR TEXT AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The Fiscal Court shall not act upon a proposed amendment to the text
of this chapter until it shall have received the written recommendation thereon
from the Planning Commission. If the proposed amendment originated with the
Planning Commission, it shall take a majority of the entire Fiscal Court to
override the recommendation of the Planning Commission. If the proposed
amendment originated with a legislative body, it shall take an affirmative vote
of the majority of the legislative body to adopt the proposed amendment.
   (B)   The Fiscal Court shall take final action within 90 days of the date
upon which the Planning Commission takes its final action upon such proposal.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.278 SPECIAL CONDITIONS TO THE GRANTING OF ZONING CHANGES.
   As a condition to the granting of any zoning change, the Planning Commission
shall require the submission of a development plan as per §§
154.225 through
154.231, which, where agreed upon, shall be followed. As a further condition to
the granting of a zoning change, the planning unit may require that substantial
construction be initiated within two years; provided that such zoning change
shall not revert to its original designation unless there has been a public
hearing.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.279 AMENDMENT; REAPPLICATION TIMEFRAME.
   Reapplication for a zone map amendment (zone change) for a parcel shall be
two years or 24 months from the date of the last application in the event a
zone map amendment is denied by the Fiscal Court.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to comply. Each day of noncompliance with the provisions
of §§
154.145 through
154.150 constitutes a separate and distinct ordinance violation. Judgment of up
to $500 per day may be entered for a violation of §§
154.145 through
154.150.
      (2)   Subject to removal. A home, sited upon property in violation of §§
154.145 through
154.150, shall be subject to removal from such property; however, the homeowner
must be given a reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance
before action for removal can be taken. If action finally is taken by the
appropriate authority to bring into compliance, the expenses involved may be
made a lien against the property.
      (3)   Removal method. The Administrative/Enforcement Officer may
institute a suit in an appropriate court for injunctive relief to cause such
violation to be prevented, abated or removed.
(Ord. passed 1-11-2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   REZONING
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      5-1-1983    Granting a 15-year television franchise to Casey County
                     Cablevision, Inc.
–      3-23-1989   Granting a 15-year cable television franchise to Lincoln
                     Cable Television
107      7-11-1989   Granting a 20-year cable television franchise to RV
                     Cablevision, Inc.
–      1-9-2001    Granting a renewal six-year non-exclusive cable television
                     franchise to Gans Multimedia, LLC
–      4-13-2004   Granting to Mediacom Southeast LLC, a cable franchise
                    
 
TABLE II: REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
-          10-8-2002   Rezones 11 acres of land from A1 to R1
3.12.13-01 3-12-2013   Rezones land from A1 to C/PO
4.23.13-03 4-23-2013   Rezones land from A1 to C/PO
11.26.13-1 11-26-2013  Rezones land from A1 to C/PO
6.24.14-1  6-24-2014   Rezones land from A1 to L1
8.11.15-1  8-11-2015   Rezones land from A1 to C/PO
11.24.15-2 11-24-2015  Rezones land from A1 to L1
11.9.16-1  11-9-2016   Rezones land from A1 to L1
11.9.16-2  11-9-2016   Rezones land from A1 to L1
11.9.16-3  11-9-2016   Rezones land from A1 to C/PO
01.9.5.17  10-10-2017  Rezones land from C/PO to L1
-          - -         Rezones land from A1 to I1
-          6-2-2020    Rezones land from A1 to C/PO
                      
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 2001 Code
References to Ordinances
 
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                   Code Section
23A.220                       35.02
39.415                        51.01
61.510 et seq.                34.065,
                              34.110 
61.810                        32.61
61.870 et seq.                32.58
61.870 to 61.884              32.64
61.872 to 61.884              32.20
61.878                        154.251
64.530(4)                     34.003
65.003                        32.01
65.205                        54.01
65.205 to 65.209              54.01
65.205(6)                     54.07
65.206(c)                     54.09
65.206(2)(a)(3)               54.05
65.206(2)(b)                  54.12
65.206(2)(c)(2)               54.10
65.206(2)(d)                  54.11
65.206(4)                     54.05,
                              54.06
65.206(6)                     54.08
65.207                        54.06
65.207(2)(a)(1)               54.05
65.207(3)                     54.06
65.207(4)                     54.09
65.210 to 65.300              54.11
67.084                        152.01
67.710                        34.003
67.710(7)                     34.003
67.711(1)                     34.042
67.730                        30.01
67.735                        30.01
67.740                        30.01
67.745                        30.01
82.710                        91.01
83A.010(6)                    10.02
83A.010(8)                    10.02
83A.065                       10.99
83A.075                       52.72
83A.090                       10.18
91A.010(8)                    10.02
91A.080                       111.03
96.932                        52.70
                              31.05,
                              154.008,
Chapter 100                   154.009,
                              154.020,
                              154.272
100.183 through 100.197       153.04
100.201 through 100.271       154.002
100.211                       154.273
100.211(1)                    154.276
100.237                       154.043
100.253                       154.062
100.271                       154.020
100.273 through 100.307       153.02
100.277                       153.21
100.281(7b)                   153.02
100.287                       153.44
100.3681                      154.213
100.3683                      154.108
100.9865                      154.247
100.987                       154.247
100.991                       153.99
108.100(4)                    33.04
108.105                       33.04
108.110                       33.04
117.235(1)                    33.01
132.750                       154.146
Chapter 136                   33.06
136.20                        111.03
151.250                       152.05,
                              152.20
154.20-250 to 154.20-284      111.03
154.50-301 through 154.50-310 31.01
Chapter 178                   92.01
186.043                       154.080
189.450(5)                    70.03
189.450(6)                    70.03
Chapter 219                   154.148
219.310 to 219.410            154.148
224.1-010                     51.01
224.1-010(31)(a)              50.04
224.1-400                     51.01
Chapter 243                   111.03
243.155                       154.009
243.156                       154.009
258.005(1)                    90.15
258.095(5)                    90.15
258.095(7)                    90.15
258.095(12)                   90.15
258.505                       90.15
278.010(3)                    154.247
281.926                       70.13
281.928(1)                    70.13
281.932                       70.13
Chapter 350                   152.05
376.275(1)                    70.13
376.275(1)(c)                 70.13
Chapter 424                   154.048
424.130                       154.273
431.510 to 431.535            33.02
431.5305                      33.02
Chapter 441                   33.08
441.505 et seq.               33.08
446.010(1)                    10.02
446.010(2)                    10.02
446.010(10)                   10.02
446.010(11)                   10.02
446.010(12)                   10.02
446.010(13)                   10.02
446.010(14)                   10.02
446.010(15)                   10.02
446.010(17)                   10.02
446.010(18)                   10.02
446.010(23)                   10.02
446.010(25)                   10.02
446.010(26)                   10.02
446.010(27)                   10.02
446.010(28)                   10.02
446.010(30)                   10.02
446.010(31)                   10.02
446.010(33)                   10.02
446.010(37)                   10.02
446.010(39)                   10.02
446.010(43)                   10.02
446.010(46)                   10.02
446.010(47)                   10.02
446.010(49)                   10.02
446.010(55)                   10.02
446.020(1)                    10.03
446.020(2)                    10.03
446.030                       10.04
446.050                       10.05
446.060                       10.06
446.080(1)                    10.03
446.080(3)                    10.03
446.080(4)                    10.03
446.090                       10.07
446.100                       10.08
446.110                       10.09
446.140                       10.01
522.030                       154.251
534.040(2)(c)                 10.99
                              
 
REFERENCES TO 2001 CODE
2001 Code Section 2019 Code Section
2001 Code Section 2019 Code Section
31.001            34.001
31.002            34.002
31.003            34.003
31.004            34.004
31.005            34.005
31.006            34.006
31.007            34.007
31.008            34.008
31.020            34.020
31.021            34.021
31.022            34.022
31.023            34.023
31.024            34.024
31.025            34.025
31.035            34.040
31.036            34.041
31.037            34.042
31.038            34.043
31.039            34.044
31.040            34.045
31.041            34.046
31.042            34.047
31.055            34.060
31.056            34.061
31.057            34.062
31.058            34.063
31.059            34.064
31.060            34.065 
31.061            34.066
31.062            34.067
31.063            34.068
31.064            34.069
31.065            34.070
31.066            34.071
31.067            34.072
31.080            34.085
31.081            34.086
31.082            34.087
31.083            34.088
31.084            34.089
31.085            34.090
31.086            34.091
31.087            34.092
31.088            34.093
31.089            34.094
31.090            34.095
31.091            34.096
31.105            34.110
31.106            34.111
31.107            34.112
31.108            34.113
31.109            34.114
31.110            34.115
31.111            34.116
31.112            34.117
31.113            34.118
31.114            34.119
31.115            34.120
31.116            34.121
32.01             32.01
32.02             32.02
32.03             32.03
32.04             32.04
32.15             32.15
32.16             32.16
32.17             32.17
32.18             32.18
32.19             32.19
32.20             32.20
32.21             32.21
32.22             32.22
32.35             32.35
32.36             32.36
32.37             32.37
32.38             32.38
32.39             32.39
32.40             32.40
32.50             32.55
32.51             32.56
32.52             32.57
32.53             32.58
32.54             32.59
32.55             32.60
32.56             32.61
32.57             32.62
32.58             32.63
32.59             32.64
32.99             32.99
33.01             31.01
33.02             31.02
50.01             50.01
50.02             50.02
50.03             50.03
50.99             50.99
90.01             93.01
90.03             93.03
90.04             93.04
90.05             93.05
90.06             93.06
90.07             93.07
90.08             93.08
90.09             93.09
90.10             93.10
90.11             93.11
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.02
92.03             92.03
92.04             92.04
110.01            110.01
110.02            110.02
110.03            110.03
110.04            110.04
110.05            110.05
110.06            110.06
110.07            110.07
110.08            110.08
110.99            110.99
150.01            151.01
150.02            151.02
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
–           5-3-1979    31.01
101           5-12-1982   33.04
–           5-1-1983    TSO, Table I
–           5-6-1986    33.01,
                          33.99
–           3-23-1989   TSO, Table I
107           7-11-1989   TSO, Table I
–           8-14-1990   93.01 -
                          93.11
114           3-12-1991   33.05
162           10-8-1991   31.02
–           7-14-1992   33.02
                          32.01 -
                          32.04,
                          32.15 -
                          32.22,
–           11-10-1994  32.35 -
                          32.40,
                          32.55 -
                          32.64,
                          32.99
                          50.01 -
–           12-13-1994  50.03,
                          50.99
–           10-24-1996  33.06
                          110.01 -
–           6-8-1999    110.08,
                          110.99
–           9-23-1999   151.01
–           12-14-1999  151.02
                          34.001 -
                          34.008,
                          34.020 -
                          34.025,
                          34.040 -
–           1-14-2000   34.047,
                          34.060 -
                          34.072,
                          34.085 -
                          34.096,
                          34.110 -
                          34.121
–           7-11-2000   33.03
–           9-14-2000   92.01 -
                          92.04
–           1-9-2001    TSO, Table I
1-1.8.02      1-8-2002    150.02,
                          150.99
–           5-14-2002   31.05
–           6-20-2002   35.02
–           10-8-2002   TSO, Table II
–           2-11-2003   151.01
                          153.01 -
                          153.04,
                          153.15 -
–           4-1-2003    153.23,
                          153.35 -
                          153.44,
                          153.99
–           5-13-2003   150.01,
                          150.99
–           9-9-2003    151.01
–           4-13-2004   TSO, Table I
                          154.001 -
                          154.009,
                          154.020 -
                          154.025,
                          154.040 -
                          154.048,
                          154.060 -
                          154.063,
                          154.075 -
                          154.090,
                          154.105 -
                          154.108,
                          154.120 -
                          154.130,
–           1-11-2005   154.145 -
                          154.150,
                          154.165 -
                          154.172,
                          154.185 -
                          154.191,
                          154.205 -
                          154.213,
                          154.225 -
                          154.231,
                          154.245 -
                          154.255,
                          154.270 -
                          154.279,
                          154.999
–           1-27-2005   154.147
                          111.01 -
2-02-08-05    2-8-2005    111.11,
                          111.99
–           5-10-2005   31.03
                          112.01 -
–           6-14-2005   112.08,
                          112.99
                          51.01,
                          51.03,
–           9-15-2005   51.05 -
                          51.09,
                          51.99
03-13-07      3-13-2007   30.04,
                          30.99
–           5-11-2007   31.02
10-9-07       10-9-2007   30.03
–           2-12-2008   33.07
                          70.01 -
                          70.11,
03-5-13-08    5-13-2008   70.13 -
                          70.16,
                          70.99
–           8-28-2008   35.01
–           1-29-2009   151.01
–           3-26-2009   154.089
                          95.01,
011-3-91      6-23-2009   95.02,
                          95.99
01-11.24.09   11-24-2009  92.05
02-12.29.09   12-29-2009  31.04
                          152.01 -
                          152.05,
                          152.20 -
                          152.27,
01-05.25.10   5-27-2010   152.40 -
                          152.43,
                          152.55 -
                          152.61,
                          152.99
5-10.10.11    10-10-2010  30.02
01-01.25.11   1-25-2011   30.01
02-02.28.11   3-28-2011   94.01 -
                          94.05
                          90.01 -
03-04.12.11   5-10-2011   90.03,
                          90.99
                          91.01 -
–           8-23-2011   91.07,
                          91.99
–           8-23-2011   154.246
                          130.01 -
1-2-28-12     2-28-2012   130.03,
                          130.99
3.12.13-01    3-12-2013   TSO, Table II
4.9.13        4-9-2013    154.170
4.23.13-03    4-23-2013   TSO, Table II
–           9-10-2013   154.009,
                          154.081
11.26.13-1    11-26-2013  TSO, Table II
6.24.14-1     6-24-2014   TSO, Table II
–           3-13-2015   34.048
8.11.15-1     8-11-2015   TSO, Table II
9.8.15        9-8-2015    154.009,
                          154.081
11.24.15-2    11-24-2015  TSO, Table II
2.23.16       2-23-2016   53.01 -
                          53.03
                          90.15 -
2.23.16       2-23-2016   90.19,
                          90.99
                          52.01 -
                          52.03,
                          52.15 -
                          52.19,
01-07.28.16   7-28-2016   52.30 -
                          52.54,
                          52.65 -
                          52.72,
                          52.99
11.9.16-1     11-9-2016   TSO, Table II
11.9.16-2     11-9-2016   TSO, Table II
11.9.16-3     11-9-2016   TSO, Table II
01.9.5.17     10-10-2017  TSO, Table II
02-11.28.17-3 11-28-2017  53.01,
                          53.02
-             2-26-2019   154.084
                          51.01 -
112           5-28-2019   51.09,
                          51.99
-             - -         TSO, Table II
-             6-2-2020    TSO, Table II
9.22.20.1     9-22-2020   50.04
9.22.20.2     9-22-2020   111.03
6.25.21       6-25-2021   54.01 -
                          54.12
9.14.21       9-14-2021   154.081
1.24.23       1-24-2023   35.03
3.28.23       3-28-2023   33.08
                         
 
 
