CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-14 Supplement contains:
Local legislation through Ord. 2024-5, passed 8-29-2024; and
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2024
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS OF
LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
MAYOR                       Chris Wright
CITY COUNCIL
MEMBER                      Stephen Chapman, Sr.
MEMBER                      Paula Graszus
MEMBER                      Abigail Miller
MEMBER                      Julie Terry Navarre
MEMBER                      Sarah Thompson
MEMBER                      David Ziegler
CITY OFFICIALS
CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER Scott Smith
CITY CLERK                  Laurie Sparks
CITY TREASURER              Stephen Bodde
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 2005-1
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING,
CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Ludlow are incomplete
and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and indexing
thereof is sufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Ludlow has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of Ludlow
that:
   SECTION I
   The general ordinances of the City of Ludlow as herein revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Ludlow.”
   SECTION II
   The Code as adopted in Section I shall consist of the following titles:
LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
      Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         30.   Form of Government
         31.   City Council
         32.   City Officials
         33.   Finance and Revenue; Taxation
         34.   Civil Emergencies
         35.   Public Records
         36.   Departments, Boards and Commissions
         37.   Police Department
         38.   Fire Department
         39.   City Policies
         40.   Code of Ethical Conduct
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         50.   Garbage and Refuse
         51.   Electric Regulations
         52.   Water
         53.   Sewers
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         70.   General Provisions
         71.   Traffic Code
         72.   Parking Regulations
         73.   Bicycles and Motorcycles
         74.   Traffic Schedules
         75.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         90.   Streets and Sidewalks
         91.   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances
         92.   Fireworks; Fire Prevention
         93.   Littering
         94.   Noise Regulations
         95.   Animals
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         110.   Business License Tax
         111.   Occupational License Tax
         112.   Alcoholic Beverages
         113.   Amusements
         114.   Garage Sales
         115.   Insurance Companies
         116.   Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants and Solicitors
         117.   Landlord and Tenant Code
         118.   Pawnbrokers
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         130.   Offenses Against Property
         131.   Offenses Against Public Peace and Safety
         132.   Weapon Offenses
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         150.   Building Regulations; Construction
         151.   Comprehensive Plan
         152.   Property Maintenance Code
         153.   Signs and Billboards
         154.   Subdivision Regulations
         155.   Trailer Coach Parks
         156.   Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
          I.   Contracts and Agreements
         II.   Zoning Map Changes
         III.   Franchise Agreements
         IV.   Street Closings
         V.   Street Name Changes
         VI.   Real Estate Transactions
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
   References to 1996 Code
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
   SECTION III
   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code shall be
deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code, except as they
are included and reordained in whole or in part of the Code; provided that such
repeal not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right
established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor shall such repeal
affect the provisions of the ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements or plats, accepting
dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of
streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   SECTION IV
   The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of Ludlow is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the Office of the
City Clerk.
   SECTION V
The Code shall take effect and be in full force when passed and published,
which may be in summary form, and recorded according to law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
Passed by the City Council this  3rd  day of  March , 2005.
                  CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
                  A Municipal Corporation of the Fourth Class
                     BY:   Ed F. Schroeder /s/
                        Ed F. Schroeder, Mayor
Attest: Paul Weekley /s/
   Paul Weekley, Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 2006-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2005 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Ludlow, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Ludlow:
   SECTION I
That the 2005 S-l supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Ludlow,
Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
and as attached hereto, be and same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
publication, which may be in summary form, according to law.
Passed by the City Council this 9th day of 2006.
                        CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
                        A Municipal Corporation of the Fourth Class
                        BY: Ed F. Schroeder, Mayor
Attest: Laurie Sparks, City Clerk
First reading:      2/23/06
Second Reading:   3/9/06
Publication:      3/14/06
ORDINANCE NO. 2011-14
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2011 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Ludlow, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Ludlow:
   SECTION I
That the 2011 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Ludlow,
Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
and as attached hereto, be and same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
publication, which may be in summary form, according to law.
Passed by the City Council this 11th day of August, 2011.
                        CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
                        A Municipal Corporation of the Fourth Class
                        BY: Kenneth Wynn, Mayor
Attest: Laurie Sparks, City Clerk
First reading:      7/14/11
Second Reading:   8/11/11
Publication:      9/8/11
ORDINANCE NO. 2013-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2013 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Ludlow, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Ludlow:
   SECTION I
That the 2013 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Ludlow,
Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
and as attached hereto, be and same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as required by law.
Passed by the City Council this 14th day of March, 2013.
                        CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
                        A Municipal Corporation of the Fourth Class
                        BY: Kenneth Wynn /s/
                         Kenneth Wynn, Mayor
Attest: Laurie Sparks /s/
    Laurie Sparks, City Clerk
First reading:      2/14/13
Second Reading:   3/14/13
Publication:                 
LUDLOW ORDINANCE NO. 2017-4
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2017 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Ludlow, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Ludlow:
   SECTION I
That the 2017-S6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Ludlow,
Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its date of
passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed by the City Council this 14th day of September, 2017.
                        CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
                        BY:   Kenneth Wynn /s/
                           Kenneth Wynn, Mayor
Attest: Laurie Sparks /s/
    Laurie Sparks, City Clerk
First reading:      8/10/17
Second Reading:   9/14/17
Publication:                 
LUDLOW ORDINANCE NO. 2015-10
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2015 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Ludlow, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Ludlow:
   SECTION I
That the 2015 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Ludlow,
Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its date of
passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed by the City Council this 12th day of November, 2015.
                        CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
                        
                        BY: Kenneth Wynn /s/
                         Kenneth Wynn, Mayor
Attest: Laurie Sparks /s/
    Laurie Sparks, City Clerk
First reading:                 
Second Reading:              
Publication:                 
LUDLOW ORDINANCE NO. 2019-4
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2018 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Ludlow, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Ludlow:
   SECTION I
That the 2018 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Ludlow,
Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
and as attached hereto, be and same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as required by law.
Passed by the City Council this 13th day of June, 2019.
                        CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
                        A Municipal Corporation of the Fourth Class
                        BY: Joshua A. Boone /s/
                         Joshua A. Boone, Mayor
Attest: Laurie Sparks /s/
    Laurie Sparks, City Clerk
First reading:      5/9/19
Second Reading:   6/13/19
Publication:                 
LUDLOW ORDINANCE NO. 2020-5
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2019 S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Ludlow, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Ludlow:
SECTION I
That the 2020 S-9 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Ludlow,
Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
and as attached hereto, be and same is hereby adopted by reference as if set
out in its entirety.
SECTION II
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as required by law.
Passed by the City Council this       day of      , 2020.
 
                        CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
                        A Municipal Corporation of the Fourth Class
                        BY:                                         
                         Joshua A. Boone, Mayor
 
Attest:                                           
    Laurie Sparks, City Clerk
First reading:                    
Second Reading:                
Publication:                   
LUDLOW ORDINANCE NO. 2021-3
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2021 S-10 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Ludlow, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Ludlow:
   SECTION I
That the 2021 S-10 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Ludlow,
Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in its entirety.
   SECTION II
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its date of
passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed by the City Council this       day of      , 2021.
                        CITY OF LUDLOW, KENTUCKY
 
                        BY:                                         
                         Joshua A. Boone, Mayor
 
Attest:                                           
    Laurie Sparks, City Clerk
First reading:                    
Second Reading:                
Publication:                   
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Ludlow Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   (1)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to
the components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may
be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.”
      (2)   Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§”
followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.”
      (3)   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title,
chapter and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall
not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of the state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature, except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code, the
City of Ludlow, irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Kenton County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of the state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor of the City of Ludlow.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Ludlow, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an AFFIRMATION may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP.  Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an AFFIRMATION may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law or when there has been
no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, district or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others, as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the
law, shall be construed according to the meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included unless it is
a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place or any act is
directed to be done on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place or the act shall be done on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, the reasonable time or notice shall mean
the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done, which may, by law, as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance that, if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional, the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to
any offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings.
   (B)   If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision
of the new ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected,
be applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever, in a penalty section, reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever, in one section, reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter be changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional ordinances or
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   (1)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code
by ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.
      (2)   Any chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances
may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages.
      (3)   Subsequent ordinances, as printed or omitted, shall be prima facie
evidence of the subsequent ordinances until Council shall adopt a new code of
ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
31.37 should be used by the city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or
division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be so construed as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted, as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed l-1-1980;
Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that
the text of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-1980)
      Statutory reference:
         Powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   FORM OF GOVERNMENT
         
31.   CITY COUNCIL
         
32.   CITY OFFICIALS
         
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
         
34.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
         
35.   PUBLIC RECORDS
         
36.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         
37.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
38.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
         
39.   CITY POLICIES
         
40.   CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
         
41.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
CHAPTER 30: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for the city shall be known as the Mayor-
Council Plan.
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive, who shall be
called Mayor, and by an elected legislative body, which shall be called the
City Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members, but no more than 12
members, as prescribed by ordinance. An ordinance amending the number of
Council members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the Kenton County Clerk by no later than the
first Wednesday after the first Monday in November of the year preceding the
year in which the Council offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of Council members
becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election of the number
of Council members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
31.02   Vacancies
   
31.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
31.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
31.21   Meetings
   
31.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
31.35   One subject; title
   
31.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
31.37   Form of amendment
   
31.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
31.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
31.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
31.41   Official city records
   
31.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
31.43   Publication requirements
   
31.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
31.45   Periodic review required
   
31.46   Municipal orders
   
31.47   Proved by Clerk-Treasurer; received in evidence
   
31.48   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   City Officials, see
Ch. 32
   Form of Government, see
Ch. 30
   Procedures for Requesting Public Records, see §§
35.15 through
35.27
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. Terms of office begin on
the first day of January following the election and shall be for two years. A
candidate for a legislative body shall be a resident of the city for not less
than one year prior to his or her election.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
32.02.
(`96 Code, § 32.01)
§ 31.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall, within 30 days,
fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice
of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the
remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation, which specifies a
resignation date, is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the Council member’s
electronic mail address and includes also the Council member’s signature. The
resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the
city legislative body occurring on or after the date specified in the written
letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written
resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special
meeting of the Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify, in writing, both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
(`96 Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 31.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions, except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear, personally or through his or her designee, on behalf of any department,
office or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
(`96 Code, § 32.03)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (`96 Code, § 32.20)
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the Office of Mayor, see §
32.21
§ 31.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall have one regular legislative meeting each month
on the second Thursday of each month at 7:00 p.m. at the Ludlow Municipal
Center, 51 Elm Street, Ludlow, Kentucky.
(Ord. 1972-1-2, passed 1-12-1972; Am. Ord. 1980-1-1, passed 2-13-1980; Am. Ord.
1982-1-1, passed 1-27-1982; Am. Ord. 1-2001, passed 2-8-2001; Am. Ord. 2008-5,
passed 5-22-08)
   (B)   (1)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or
upon written request of a majority of the Council.
      (2)   In the call, the Mayor or Council shall designate the purpose, time
and place of the special meeting with sufficient notice for the attendance of
Council members and for compliance with KRS 61.800 et seq.
   (C)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records, as provided under §
32.36, and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (`96 Code, § 32.21)
§ 31.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (`96 Code, § 32.22)
ORDINANCES
§ 31.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (`96 Code, § 32.35)
§ 31.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled Be it ordained by the City of Ludlow.
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (`96 Code, § 32.36)
§ 31.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only and ordinances
to amend shall set out, in full, the amended ordinance or section indicating
any text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (`96 Code, § 32.37)
§ 31.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   (1)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance.
      (2)   Publication requirements of §
31.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7)) (`96 Code, § 32.38)
§ 31.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council,
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after
receiving it or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of
the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (`96 Code, § 32.39)
§ 31.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (`96 Code, § 32.40)
§ 31.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and, on passage of an ordinance, the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.42 and
32.36(B), for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk-Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (`96 Code, § 32.41)
§ 31.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (`96 Code, § 32.42)
§ 31.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
31.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS Ch.
424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the commonwealth and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (`96 Code, § 32.43)
§ 31.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (`96 Code, § 32.44)
§ 31.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years, all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (`96 Code, § 32.45)
§ 31.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13)) (`96 Code, § 32.46)
§ 31.47 PROVED BY CLERK-TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk-Treasurer. When the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances
by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (`96 Code, § 32.47)
§ 31.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (`96 Code, § 32.48)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 32: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Oath; bond
   
32.02   Compensation
   
32.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
32.20   Election procedure
   
32.21   Mayor
   
32.22   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
32.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
32.36   City Clerk and City Treasurer
   
32.37   City Attorney
   
32.38   Building Inspector and Code Enforcement Officer
   
32.39   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
32.40   City Cashier
   
32.41   City Secretary
   
32.42   City Engineer
   
32.43   City Administrative Officer
   
32.44   Main Street/Renaissance Coordinator
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath:
      “I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support
the Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United
States, and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I
continue a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of
my ability, the office of            , according to law; and I do further
solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present
Constitution, I being a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel
with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or
accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a
second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus
offending, so help me God”, as established by section 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
(`96 Code, § 31.01)
   (B)   Bond. All officers of the city who handle public funds in the
execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the city for
the faithful and honest performance of their duties and as security for all
money coming into the officer’s hands or under the officer’s control. The
amount of the bond shall be established based on the amount of public funds the
officer handles at any point in time during the fiscal year and may be
satisfied by a blanket or umbrella bond covering all or a group of city
officers and employees. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city.
(KRS 65.067)
§ 32.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of mayors and council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes, by the second Friday in February of every year, the annual increase
or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as
the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and mayors in cities other than the first class
and council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The legislative body shall fix the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with a personnel and pay classification
plan, which shall be adopted by ordinance.
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(`96 Code, § 31.02)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 32.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance. Upon removal
of a nonelected officer at will, the mayor shall give the officer a written
statement setting forth the reason or reasons for the removal. However, this
requirement shall not be construed as limiting in any way the at will dismissal
power of the mayor.
(`96 Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 32.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws,
as provided in KRS Chs. 116 through 121, unless City Council otherwise
prescribes, by ordinance, that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws, as provided in KRS Ch. 83A.
      (2)   The ordinance shall become effective not later than 23 days prior
to the date prescribed by the election law generally for filing notification
and declaration forms with the County Clerk in a year in which a regular
election is to be held in which any city office is to be filled.
      (3)   Immediately subsequent to publication of any ordinance prescribing
that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city election laws, a copy
of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of the county in which
the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections, only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E) and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(`96 Code, § 31.20)
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 32.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office.
      (1)   The Mayor of the city shall be elected by the voters of the city at
a regular election.
      (2)   His or her term of office begins on the first day of January
following his or her election and shall be for four years and until his or her
successor qualifies.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office. A candidate for mayor shall be a resident of the city for
not less than one year prior to his or her election.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If, for any reason, any vacancy in the Office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040 (1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the Office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy, by reason of a voluntary resignation, in the Office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the Mayor’s electronic mail address and
includes also the Mayor’s signature. The resignation shall be effective at the
next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body occurring on or
after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a resignation
date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to become
effective at the first regular or special meeting of the Council occurring on
or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the Office of Mayor, which is required, by
law, to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall
immediately notify, in writing, both the County Clerk and the Secretary of
State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect, from among its members, an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the Office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   (a)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and
shall be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council
plan, city ordinances and orders and all applicable statutes.
         (b)   He or she shall supervise all departments of city government and
the conduct of all city officers and employees under his or her jurisdiction
and require each department to make reports to him or her, as required by
ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of the action. If, for any reason, the disability of the Mayor
to attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the
provisions of §
32.21(C) shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
(`96 Code, § 31.21)
§ 32.22 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Ch. 31 of this code of ordinances.
(`96 Code, § 31.22)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 32.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
   (B)   All nonelected city officers, including the Chief of Police, shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of City Council. All city police
officers shall be appointed by the Mayor, at will, and the appointments need
not be approved by City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor, at will, unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance. Upon removal of a nonelected
officer at will, the Mayor shall give the officer a written statement setting
forth the reason or reasons for removal. However, this requirement shall not be
construed as limiting in any way the at will dismissal power of the Mayor.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   City Attorney;
      (3)   Building Inspector;
      (4)   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator;
      (5)   Superintendent of Department of Water and Sewers;
      (6)   Superintendent of Street and Waste Disposal Department;
      (7)   City Cashier;
      (8)   City Secretary;
      (9)   City Engineer; and
      (10)   City Administrator.
(`96 Code, § 31.35) (Am. Ord. 2001-16, passed 8-23-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (2)
§ 32.36 CITY CLERK AND CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of City Clerk and City Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk, shall be the officer who shall have the
responsibility, with the active assistance of clerical help, for the
preparation and maintenance of the City Council minute books or journal and
shall be responsible generally, with like assistance, for the preservation and
safekeeping of all other city public records including ordinances, resolutions,
contracts and other public archives and for the publication of newly-enacted
ordinances and of legal notices whenever and as required by statute and the
City Council. He or she shall have the duty, with assistance, to see to and
ensure the maintenance of the property tax rolls and preparation of annual tax
billings.
      (2)   The City Treasurer, shall have the duty and responsibility to
receive, record and maintain all moneys belonging to the city; to disburse and
record city funds as directed and to report any receipts and disbursements on a
monthly basis; to process employee payrolls; to write all checks; to maintain
and balance bookkeeping journals and ledgers; to reconcile bank balances; and
to perform other financial activities as necessary.
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall receive and safely keep all money
belonging to the city. He or she shall pay it out, as directed by order of the
City Council, but only upon warrants drawn by the Mayor and countersigned by
the City Treasurer. He or she shall keep an accurate account of all receipts
and disbursements, showing when, from whom and to whom, for what purpose, and
on what account all city funds were received or paid, and shall exhibit the
account so kept. The City Treasurer shall keep a general ledger of the accounts
and city funds.
      (4)   At the first regular meeting of the City Council each month, the
City Treasurer shall send his or her monthly report to the City Council, which
shall have it credited by the Finance Committee. Every three months, he or she
make a financial exhibit, giving an itemized statement of all receipts, with
their sources, and an itemized statement of all disbursements, with their
purposes and shall have the exhibit entered on the records of the City
Treasurer’s office. The City Treasurer shall annually, at the expiration of
each fiscal year, prepare an itemized sworn statement of his or her accounts
and cause newspaper publication of the same to be made, all in the manner and
detail as prescribed in KRS 424.220.
      (5)   The City Treasurer shall perform the duties of License Inspector,
as provided for in Chapter 111, pertaining to employee occupational license
fees; and the City Treasurer shall be responsible for the preparation of the
waste disposal fees.
      (6)   The City Clerk and the City Treasurer shall perform such other
duties, as may be required by the Mayor, or by City Council, by ordinance, not
inconsistent with law.
   (C)   The City Clerk and the City Treasurer shall have a work schedule as
determined by the Executive Authority of the city and their compensation shall
determined by the Mayor within the parameters of the budget adopted by the City
Council.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk or City
Treasurer unless the person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth. The City Clerk and City Treasurer shall also
provide a bond with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the
state and conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
(`96 Code, § 31.36) (Ord. 2005-11, passed 7-28-2005)
§ 32.37 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Office of City Attorney shall be a nonelected office. This officer
shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of City Council.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall be a practicing attorney; and he or she shall
hold the office subject to removal at any time by the Mayor, at will.
   (C)   (1)   The duties of the City Attorney shall include attendance and
active participation in all Council meetings, advising that body in its
meetings as to legal matters and drafting ordinances and resolutions as
required by Council for adoption. He or she shall represent the interests of
the city in all legal proceedings that may be brought against it and bring all
suits and actions in its behalf that may be required by the City Council; and
he or she shall perform any other legal duties in his or her department
required by Council.
      (2)   He or she shall faithfully perform the duties of prosecutor where
provided by law and shall represent the city and the commonwealth in any court
to which an appeal may be taken. It shall be his or her duty, further, to give
advice to the Board of Trustees of the Police Officer’s Pension Fund in all
matters pertaining to their duties and management of that Fund whenever
requested, and he or she shall represent and defend that Board as its attorney
in all suits or actions at law or in equity that may be brought against it, and
bring all suits and actions in its behalf that may be required or determined
upon by the Board.
      (3)   He or she shall also perform the duties of the collection of
delinquent property tax bills of the city.
(Ord. 1973-8-4, passed 8-29-1973)
   (D)   (1)   In addition to the salary fixed for City Attorney by annual
ordinance of City Council, the City Attorney shall receive additional
compensation as an independent contractor for all extraordinary services,
including appearances in legal actions and administrative proceedings and
hearings involving the city, municipal bond issues, real estate acquisitions
and dispositions and other matters beyond the scope of usual legal counsel to
the city or requiring an unusual amount of time.
      (2)   For such extraordinary services, the City Attorney shall be paid
reasonable fees commensurate with the amount and value of time devoted thereto,
based upon charges made by other attorneys for comparable legal services.
(`96 Code, § 31.37)
§ 32.38 BUILDING INSPECTOR AND CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   General responsibilities. Under the direction of the Mayor and
Council, the Building Inspector shall administer and enforce building codes and
ordinances, housing codes and ordinances, nuisance codes and ordinances,
general city regulations and do related work as required.
   (B)   Specific responsibilities.
      (1)   Operational. The Officer shall confer and correspond with
architects, engineers, owners, contractors and others in the building field
concerning review of building plans; assure compliance of city and state
building and regulatory codes; makes initial, subsequent and final inspections
of buildings; issue building permits and certificates of occupancy; inspect new
streets for conformance with specifications; assign house numbers; enforce city
nuisance ordinances; enforce the housing codes and inspect all apartment units
on an annual basis; keep appropriate records for all enforcement procedures and
inspections and make periodic reports on their department activities; initiate
legal action to enforce compliance; and insure department compliance with city
procedures and policies.
      (2)   Personnel. The Officer shall develop and maintain a safety
conscious work environment.
      (3)   Financial. The Officer shall prepare the department budget
recommendations; review department expenditures; and maintain efficient cost-
effective operations.
      (4)   Planning. The Officer shall initiate building and zoning code
revisions and modifications; contribute to the update of department and city-
wide plans; and review site plans and prepares comments to the Engineer.
   (C)   Position qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. The Officer shall have the following
training and experience: graduation from an accredited college or university
with specialization in engineering or architecture supplemented by two-years’
experience in structural engineering, architecture, construction or closely
related field; or any combination of education, training and experience which
provides the necessary knowledge, skills and abilities to effectively perform
the duties of the position.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills and abilities. The Officer shall have the
following: extensive knowledge of modern building construction practices,
methods, materials and equipment; thorough knowledge of principles and
practices of architecture and engineering as applied to the enforcement of
building codes; thorough knowledge of building and zoning codes and related
laws and ordinances; thorough knowledge of the rules and regulations of fire
prevention agencies; working knowledge of electrical, mechanical and plumbing
ordinances; ability to understand and interpret building construction plans and
specifications; ability to establish and maintain effective working
relationships with building owners, contractors, architects and other members
of the public, public officials and employees; ability to enforce building and
zoning ordinances with firmness and tact; supervisory and administrative
abilities; integrity; patience; tact; diplomacy; initiative and
resourcefulness; sound judgment; and shall be state certified, as required by
KRS 198B.010.
(`96 Code, § 31.38) (Ord. 1988-7, passed 3-23-1988)
§ 32.39 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Under authority of KRS 241.160, the Office of Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator is created.
   (B)   The Mayor of the city, under authority of KRS 241.170, shall appoint
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator. The Mayor may remove the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, at will.
   (C)   No person can be appointed Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
who has any interest in any premises or business where alcoholic beverages are
manufactured, stored or sold, but no person shall be disqualified under this
section by reason of his or her membership in any club. The Administrator shall
not receive any commission or profit from any person applying for or receiving
any license or permit.
   (D)   The Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, before entering upon his
or her duties as such, shall take the oath prescribed in § 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
   (E)   The Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall, before entering
upon his or her duties, execute a bond with a good corporate surety in an
amount that meets the requirements of §
32.01(B) of this code. The cost of the bond given under this division shall be
borne by the city.
   (F)   (1)   The functions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
shall be the same with respect to the city licenses and regulations as the
functions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board with respect thereto,
except that no regulation adopted by the Administrator may be less stringent
than the state statutes relating to alcoholic beverage control or than the
regulations of the State Board.
      (2)   However, no regulation of the Administrator shall become effective
until it has been approved by the State Board. These functions of the
Administrator are governed by KRS 241.060 and the regulations, as set out by
the State Board.
   (G)   Appeals from the orders of the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator may be taken to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and
shall be governed by KRS 243.550, 243.560 and 243.590.
   (H)   For services as Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, this Officer
shall receive compensation as set by City Council by ordinance.
(`96 Code, § 31.39) (Ord. 1956-5-4, passed 6-14-1956)
§ 32.40 CITY CASHIER. (RESERVED)
   Editor’s note: This section was previously based on Ord. 1978-2-2, passed 2-
22-1978; and 1996 Code, § 31.42.
§ 32.41 CITY SECRETARY.
   (A)   The position of full-time City Secretary is created, the City
Secretary to be an executive type responsible to the supervising officer for
the clerical activities heretofore performed by the City Clerk-Treasurer and
for the performance of such other clerical activities as directed by the
supervising officer, including the following:
      (1)   Responsibility for office maintenance and operation;
      (2)   Mailing of correspondence to Council members and committees and
others as directed by the supervising officer;
      (3)   Opening and distributing mail;
      (4)   Assisting the City Clerk-Treasurer in report preparation and
typing;
      (5)   Attendance at all Council meetings and meetings of the Police
Pension Fund and taking of minutes thereof; and
      (6)   General typing and duplicating as required.
   (B)   The City Secretary shall work a defined number of hours per week and
shall be paid in that amount and on regular occasions as may be hereafter
determined and legislated.
(Ord. 1978-2-2, passed 2-22-1978)
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Secretary unless the
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
commonwealth and has provided a bond in the sum as established by City Council,
with corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
(`96 Code, § 31.43)
§ 32.42 CITY ENGINEER.
   For provisions concerning the City Engineer, see §
90.06.
(`96 Code, § 31.44)
§ 32.43 CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)   This position can be filled by appointment by the Mayor with the
approval of Council, or through a contract entered into with the Northern
Kentucky Area Development District, which contract shall be approved by
Council.
   (B)   If this office is filled by contract with the Northern Kentucky Area
Development District, then that agency shall designate the individual who shall
serve as the City Administrative Officer from that agency.
   (C)   The City Administrative Officer shall have the following duties and
responsibility:
      (1)   Carry out duties delegated and directed by the Mayor.
      (2)   Work with the Mayor and City Council and advise on formulation and
implementation of policies and procedures.
      (3)   Assume responsibility for preparation and administration of all
budgets in conjunction with the Mayor.
      (4)   Coordinate the supervision, scheduling, training and evaluation of
all city employees.
      (5)   Work directly with the department heads on program design,
implementation and administration.
      (6)   Coordinate strategic planning efforts and oversee planning and
economic development activities.
      (7)   Evaluate and develop recommendations for current infrastructure and
related capital improvement.
      (8)   Attend City Council meetings and provide reports as determined by
the Mayor or the City Council.
      (9)   Provide research and support for all committees and boards of the
city.
      (10)   Act as a liaison for the city including acting as a representative
to varies community and regional organizations, and public functions as
assigned by the Mayor.
      (11)   Plan for and recommend purchase of equipment and supplies.
      (12)   Assist in the recruitment hiring and orientation process of any
and all new employees of the city.
   (D)   The City Administrative Officer shall report to the Mayor.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 7-28-2005)
§ 32.44 MAIN STREET/RENAISSANCE COORDINATOR.
   (A)   This position is to be filled by appointment by the Mayor, subject to
approval by the Council.
   (B)   This position will be a part-time position and report directly to the
City Administrative Officer of the city.
   (C)   That the Main Street/Renaissance Coordinator shall have the following
duties and responsibility:
      (1)   Assists the Ludlow Renaissance Committee and the city in developing
strategies for the central business district in the areas of economic
development, historic preservation and overall revitalization. The programs
focus on the four areas of design:
         (a)   Historic preservation;
         (b)   Promotion;
         (c)   Organization; and
         (d)   Economic restructuring/development.
      (2)   Assist the Renaissance/Main Street Committee in developing goals
and priorities for the Renaissance designated area.
      (3)   Works with Main Street businesses to develop effective strategies
regarding street improvements, parking issues and beautification efforts.
      (4)   Manages all administrative aspects of the Main Street and
Renaissance programs, including grant writing, meeting preparation, meeting
documentation, budgeting, purchasing, correspondence, and report preparation.
      (5)   Acts as the contact person for Kentucky Main Street, Renaissance on
Main and other related programs.
      (6)   Coordinates an ongoing public awareness and education program to
encourage appreciation of the central business district assets and educate the
community on the goals of the Main Street program.
      (7)   Makes available information and resources for businesses and
potential business owners regarding available programs, infrastructure
improvement, zoning and ongoing projects in the community.
      (8)   Works with Renaissance Committee and the city to attract new
businesses to the designated Renaissance/Main Street area, including
preparation of inventories, marketing efforts, coordination of events,
coordination of training programs, development of retention/marketing programs
and work with support agencies in the area.
      (9)   Prepares applications for and administers grants and loan programs
related to economic development, streetscape improvements, facade improvements,
historic preservation and other related projects.
      (10)   Performs other related duties, as assigned and necessary.
(Ord. 2005-18, passed 10-13-2005)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.15   Definitions
   
33.16   Financing of improvements
   
33.17   Apportionment of cost
   
33.18   Comprehensive report required
   
33.19   Public hearing required
   
33.20   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.21   Affected owner may contest
   
33.22   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.23   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Self-Insurance
   
33.35   Participation in the Kentucky League of Cities Insurance Services
Collection of Occupational Taxes
   
33.45   Occupational taxes
   
33.46   Terms of collection
   
33.47   Authorization to enter into interlocal agreement
Taxation
   
33.60   County assessment adopted
   
33.61   Due date; payment
   
33.62   Delinquency
   
33.63   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
33.64   Disposition of funds
   
33.65   Abandoned urban property
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010) (`96 Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (`96 Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance
with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If, in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157b
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. The responsibility includes the preparation
and submission to Council of operating statements, including budgetary
comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has been
adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three months
in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency or member, director, officer or employee of any city
agency may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money at
that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts, agreements
and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations are void;
nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate or warrant for the
payment of money by the city in any way to any extent, beyond the balance of
any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030) (`96 Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Each city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under division (A) of this section to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or Federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the city legislative body at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424 containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in division (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city. Extensions granted under this subsection shall not
exceed nine months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (I) of this section shall apply.
   (I)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) and (H)
of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance
and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) and (H) of this section for all prior fiscal
years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and
the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of
payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the
noncompliance.
   (J)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040) (`96 Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall designate, as the city’s official depositories,
one or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies or trust
companies within the commonwealth.
      (2)   The amount of funds on deposit in an official depository shall be
fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in accordance with 12
U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations, including surety
bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   (1)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which
the city is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in
a manner authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories.
      (2)   All city funds shall be disbursed by written authorization approved
by the Mayor which states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the
purpose of the payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable.
      (3)   Each authorization shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (`96 Code, § 33.05)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS.  Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210) (`96 Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.16 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments, except as provided in this subchapter and in any
applicable statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing and, for any improvement,
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
(`96 Code, § 33.11)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS 107.010 et seq.
§ 33.17 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government or any educational, religious or charitable organization. Council
may assess the property in the same manner as for privately-owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (`96 Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.18 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (`96 Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.19 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.18, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Ch. 424 and
mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (`96 Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.20 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   (A)   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments and, if it
determines to proceed, shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.18 and a description of all properties.
   (B)   Promptly upon passage, the city shall publish the ordinance pursuant
to KRS Ch. 424 and shall mail by certified mail to each affected property owner
a notice of determination to proceed with the project, the fair basis of
assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to the property owner and the
ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the total cost of the entire
project.
(KRS 91A.260) (`96 Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.21 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.20, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement or the amount of his or
her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   (1)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to the
property owners, except as to contested amounts of assessments.
      (2)   After the lapse of time, as herein provided, all actions by owners
of properties are forever barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (`96 Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.22 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.21 or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   (1)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof
on any property and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on
the property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of
financing of the improvement.
      (2)   The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether created
prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a lien for
state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement taxes,
and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners.
      (3)   No error in the proceedings of the Council shall exempt any
benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or from
payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (`96 Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.23 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.18 through
33.22 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property or any other change may be made without compliance if all
property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (`96 Code, § 33.18)
SELF-INSURANCE
§ 33.35 PARTICIPATION IN THE KENTUCKY LEAGUE OF CITIES INSURANCE SERVICES.
   (A)   The city has, by Ord. 1987-6, duly enacted on June 10, 1987,
authorized the execution of the interlocal cooperation agreement to establish
the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association (the Interlocal Agreement),
dated as of April 15, 1987, now known as the Kentucky League of Cities
Insurance Services.
      (1)   The interlocal cooperation agreement has been duly executed by the
Mayor and attested by the City Clerk-Treasurer and the city has become a party
to the interlocal agreement and a member of the Kentucky League of Cities
Insurance Services (KLCIS).
      (2)   The governing Board of Trustees of the KLCIS has created a General
Insurance Trust (the Trust) as authorized by the interlocal agreement for the
purpose of providing the KLCIS members with pooled self-insurance and/or third-
party insurance coverages against various public liability and property damage
risks.
      (3)   The city desires to become a participating member in the Trust and
to obtain, from or through the Trust, public liability and property damage
insurance coverages as are deemed advisable by the city.
      (4)   Under the terms of the interlocal agreement and the Articles of
Association and By-Laws of the KLCIS, each member of the KLCIS must execute a
binding trust participation agreement prior to becoming a participating member
in the Trust.
      (5)   The city has been provided a copy of the trust participation
agreement for the Kentucky League of Cities Insurance Services General
Insurance Trust (the Trust Participation Agreement), which sets forth the
authorities, rights, duties and liabilities of the city and the KLCIS in
connection with the city’s participation in the Trust.
      (6)   The officials of the city have examined the trust participation
agreement and are aware of the authorities, rights, duties and liabilities of
the city and the KLCIS under the trust participation agreement.
   (B)   The participation by the city in the Trust and the purchase from or
through the Trust of the public liability and property damage insurance
coverages, as may be deemed advisable by the executive and legislative
authorities of the city, are hereby approved.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to execute and deliver, for and on
behalf of the city, in connection with its participation in the Trust, the
trust participation agreement, substantially in the form attached to Ord. 1987-
8 as Exhibit A.
(`96 Code, § 33.30) (Ord. 1987-8, passed 8-4-1987)
COLLECTION OF OCCUPATIONAL TAXES
§ 33.45 OCCUPATIONAL TAXES.
   The occupational taxes of the city for purposes of the interlocal agreement
described in this subchapter shall include Chapters 110 and 111 of this code of
ordinances.
(`96 Code, § 33.40) (Ord. 4-1993, passed 3-25-1993)
§ 33.46 TERMS OF COLLECTION.
   The county is hereby authorized to collect the taxes described in §
33.45 upon these terms:
   (A)   The taxes shall be collected by the County License Inspector, with
joint administration of the Mayor of each participating city and the Judge-
Executive of the county without a separate legal or administrative agency to be
created.
   (B)   Other cities can begin participating on the first day of March, July,
October or December of each year.
   (C)   The county is appointed agent to enforce and collect the occupational
and business license tax, through the office of the County License Inspector or
as administered by the joint cooperation as described above in division (A) of
this section.
   (D)   The county shall provide the service and provide the pay for the
space, equipment, utilities, supplies, time and labor necessary for the
services listed below:
      (1)   Collection;
      (2)   Enforcement of criminal and administrative penalties; and
      (3)   Coordinate the collection through forms reporting procedure and
single location for administration.
   (E)   The county shall, by the tenth of each calendar month:
      (1)   Pay the city the total of all taxes and fees collected by them,
plus any interest earned, minus the fee for collection and a proportionate
reimbursement fee; and
      (2)   Provide the city with a written accounting, including the date,
amount, name and computation for each payment.
   (F)   The fee for collection shall be 1% of the amounts collected.
   (G)   (1)   The proportionate reimbursement of 2% which shall be the initial
county costs of $10,000, divided equally by the number of participating cities.
      (2)   Reimbursement for this cost, by credit, shall be made to the city
as and if additional cities join the agreement.
   (H)   The city will hold other participating cities and the county harmless
from liabilities and costs that are related to the city’s ordinance, not
directly related to discretionary decision by the county or its Licensed
Inspector and employees.
   (I)   The county will hold other participating cities and the city harmless
from any liability and costs related to the discretionary decision of the
county or its License Inspector or employees.
   (J)   The agreement may be terminated by the city upon:
      (1)   Payment in full of the city’s proportionate reimbursement costs;
      (2)   Serving a certified copy of the terminating ordinance on the county
180 days prior to termination.
   (K)   (1)   Upon termination, all records and accounts of collection and
enforcement of the taxes shall be delivered to the city.
      (2)   If all cities terminate, the interlocal agreement shall terminate.
   (L)   The agreement between the city, the county and the other cities shall
be effective upon approval by the Attorney General.
(`96 Code, § 33.41) (Ord. 4-1993, passed 3-25-1993)
§ 33.47 AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to enter into the interlocal agreement to
effect the collection process of the city’s occupational license and business
license taxes, as outlined above.
(`96 Code, § 33.42) (Ord. 4-1993, passed 3-25-1993)
TAXATION
§ 33.60 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Kenton County assessment for all real and personal property situated
within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved
by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed 9-22-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-17, passed 9-22-2005; Am. Ord.
2011-16, passed 9-8-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 9-13-2012)
§ 33.61 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due on
October 31 or by the date set by Council.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed 9-22-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-17, passed 9-22-2005; Am. Ord.
2011-16, passed 9-8-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 9-13-2012)
§ 33.62 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on November 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   (1)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall
be subject to a penalty of 15% with interest of 8.5% per annum on the taxes due
and unpaid.
      (2)   The delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses
incidental to any action taken by the city for collection of the delinquent tax
bill, including reimbursement to the city of all attorneys’ fees and courts
costs incurred by the city.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the
fourth class.
(Ord. 2005-16, passed 9-22-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-17, passed 9-22-2005; Am. Ord.
2011-16, passed 9-8-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-16, passed 9-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-15,
passed 11-14-2019)
§ 33.63 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Kenton County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 33.64 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this subchapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
§ 33.65 ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Abandoned urban property classified as real property. Abandoned urban
property is established as a separate classification of real property for the
purpose of ad valorem taxation. As used in this section, “abandoned urban
property” means:
      (1)   Any vacant structure or vacant or unimproved lot or parcel of
ground in the city which has been vacant or unimproved for a period of at least
one year and which:
         (a)   Because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin infested,
or otherwise dangerous to the safety of persons, it is unfit for its intended
use; or
         (b)   By reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a place
for the accumulation of trash and debris, or has become infested with rodents
or other vermin; or
         (c)   Has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years; or
      (2)   Any property in the city that has been identified as “blighted” or
“deteriorated” by the Ludlow Code Enforcement Board.
   (B)   Rate of taxation for abandoned urban properties. The tax rate of
taxation levied upon abandoned urban properties is $.75 on each $100 of
assessed value.
   (C)   Classification of property as abandoned urban property; right to
appeal.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall each year determine which properties
in the city are abandoned urban properties and shall prepare and furnish a list
of abandoned urban properties located in the city to the City Clerk/Treasurer
and the Kenton County Property Valuation Administrator prior to January 1 of
each year.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) of this section, a
property classified by the Zoning Administrator as abandoned property as of
January 1 shall be taxed as abandoned urban property for such tax year. If the
owner repairs, rehabilitates, or otherwise returns the property to productive
use so that the property is no longer abandoned urban property, he shall notify
the city, which shall, if it finds the property is no longer abandoned urban
property, notify the Clerk/Treasurer and the Kenton County Property Valuation
Administrator to strike the property from the list of abandoned urban
properties as of the succeeding January 1.
      (3)   No later than March 1 of each year, the City Zoning Administrator
shall mail, by first-class mail, to the owner(s) of each abandoned urban
property, as those name(s) are listed in the records of the Property Valuation
Administrator, a notice that this property has been classified as abandoned
urban property. The owner of any abandoned urban property who believes that
his, her, or its property has been incorrectly classified may appeal such
classification to the Ludlow Code Enforcement Board. Such appeal shall be in
writing and shall be made no later than April 1 of that year. The Board shall
afford the owner the opportunity for a hearing. If the Board finds that the
property was incorrectly classified as abandoned urban property, it shall cause
the property to be removed from the list of properties so classified. The Board
shall develop policies and procedures for conducting such appeals.
(Ord. 2004-12, passed 12-15-2004)
CHAPTER 34: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
34.01   Declaration of state of emergency
   
34.02   Powers of Mayor
   
34.03   Vacancies during disasters and emergencies
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 DECLARATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   In the event of the occurrence or threatened or impending occurrence of any
of the situations or events contemplated by KRS 39A.010, 39A.020, or 39A.030,
which in the judgment of a local chief executive officer is of such severity or
complexity as to require the exercise of extraordinary emergency measures, the
mayor or his or her designees as provided by ordinance, may declare in writing
that a state of emergency exists.
(KRS 39A.100(3))
§ 34.02 POWERS OF MAYOR.
   In the event the mayor or his or her designees declares in writing than a
state of emergency exists, the mayor, subject to the orders of the Governor,
shall have and may exercise for the period as the state of emergency exists or
continues, the following powers:
   (A)   The power to enforce all laws and administrative regulations relating
to disaster and emergence response and to direct all local disaster and
emergency response forces and operation in the affected city;
   (B)   The power to exclude all nonessential, unauthorized, disruptive, or
uncooperative personnel from the scene of the emergency, and to command persons
or groups of persons at the scene to disperse. A person who refuses to leave an
area in which a written order of evacuation has been issued in accordance with
a written declaration of emergency of a disaster may be forcibly removed to a
place of safety or shelter, or may , if this is resisted, be arrested by a
peace officer. Forcible removal or arrest hall not be exercised as options
until all reasonable efforts for voluntary compliance have been exhausted;
   (C)   The power to declare curfews and establish their limits;
   (D)   The power to order immediate purchase or rental of, contract for, or
otherwise procure, without regard to procurement codes or procedures or budget
requirements, the good and services essential for protection of public health
and safety or to maintain or to restore essential public services; and
   (E)   The power to request emergency assistance from any local government or
special district and, through the Governor, to request emergency assistance
from any state agency and to initiate requests for federal assistance as are
necessary for protection of public health and safety or for continuation of
essential public services.
(KRS 39A.100(3))
§ 34.03 VACANCIES DURING DISASTERS AND EMERGENCIES.
   That when the absence or disability of the Mayor of the city shall prevent
the Mayor from serving in the office during a national, state or local
emergency, the duties and responsibilities of the Mayor shall be administered
temporarily by the Police Chief of the city. In the event that neither the
Mayor nor the Police Chief are able to serve in the office of Mayor, by reason
of absence or disability, during a national, state or local emergency, the
duties of the office of Mayor shall be assumed temporarily by the Assistant
Police Chief of the city and if that person is unable to serve by reason of
absence or disability, then by Director of the Kenton County Department of
Homeland Security and Emergency Management.
(Ord. 2003-16; passed 9-11-2003)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates an order issued under the authority of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $50, nor more than $500, or shall be sentenced to a term of
imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or both.
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
35.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
35.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
35.17   Public records not immediately available
   
35.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
35.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
35.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
35.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
35.22   Format of copies
   
35.23   Fees for copies
   
35.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
35.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
35.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
35.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of Ludlow.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its new
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation or claims settlement by the parties to such action or the
attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of the city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his actual
personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of the city shall be the
Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being and resident of the Commonwealth of Kentucky who makes
a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
35.26.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870) (`96 Code, § 34.01)  (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 35.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of the city
shall make a request for inspection by doing either one of the following: (1)
submitting a request, either in person or by mail, to the office of the City
Clerk, located at 51 Elm Street, Ludlow, KY, 41016, or (2) submitting a request
via email to the City Clerk at lsparks@ludlow.org. If the request is made in
person, it must be made during regular office hours, except during legal
holidays. The official custodian or the custodian acting under the authority of
the official custodian may require a request to inspect public records to be in
writing, signed by the applicant and with the applicant’s name printed legibly
on the application. The official custodian may require the applicant to provide
a statement in the written application of the manner in which the applicant is
a resident of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law and the requested public records are
immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for inspection.
A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the city during
the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving copies of the
records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer or in another office of the city, as determined by the official
custodian or custodian, for the inspection. No person shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of the city without the written
permission of the official custodian of the record. When public records are
inspected at the city offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the
right to make abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain
copies of all written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian
may require advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(`96 Code, § 34.05) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 35.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (`96 Code, § 34.06) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 35.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (`96 Code, § 34.07) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 35.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public records
or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are intended
to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the official
custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or mail copies
thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by clear and
convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6)) (`96 Code, § 34.08) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 35.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute
final agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1)) (`96 Code, § 34.09) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 35.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(`96 Code, § 34.10) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 35.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
35.26 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884) (`96 Code, § 34.11) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 35.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
35.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for non-commercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Non-exempt public records
used for non-commercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a non-standardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) and (2)) (`96 Code, § 34.12) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 35.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
non-exempt public records requested for use for non-commercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a non-standardized format or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of non-exempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of non-exempt public records
are requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from
the requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and
may require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The
contract shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial
purpose for a specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4)) (`96 Code, § 34.13) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
35.25
§ 35.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
35.23;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Non-commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) (`96 Code, § 34.14) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
35.23.
(KRS 61.874(6)) (`96 Code, § 34.15) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
§ 35.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
rules of civil procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research; (This exemption shall not, however, apply
to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other
statute.)
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits, as described in KRS
Ch. 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions, provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within or expanding within
the commonwealth; (This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.)
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until the time as all of the property has been
acquired; (The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.)
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication; (Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.)
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law;
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Ch. 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of;
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos; and
      (18)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
   (C)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. The records
shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
   (D)   If any public record contains material which is not excepted under
this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (F)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(17) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(`96 Code, § 34.16) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 61.878
§ 35.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
(`96 Code, § 34.17) (Am. Ord. 2022-1, passed 3-10-2022)
CHAPTER 36: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Board of Housing and Property Maintenance Appeals
   
36.01   Establishment
Civil Service Commission
   
36.10   Establishment
Park Commissioners Board
   
36.20   Establishment
   
36.21   Membership; terms
   
36.22   Oath
   
36.23   Officers of Board
   
36.24   [Reserved]
   
36.25   [Reserved]
   
36.26   Compensation
   
36.27   Vacancies
   
36.28   [Reserved]
   
36.29   Levying of taxes; Park Fund
   
36.30   [Reserved]
   
36.31   [Reserved]
   
36.32   Dedication of lands or buildings; acquisition of real property
   
36.33   Charges for use of park grounds and facilities
Urban Design Review Board
   
36.50   Definitions
   
36.51   Purpose
   
36.52   Establishment; makeup
   
36.53   Terms of office
   
36.54   Organization
   
36.55   Duties and powers
Cross-reference:
   Code Enforcement Board, see
Ch. 41
   Fire Department, see
Ch. 38
   Parks, rules and regulations of, see
Ch. 96
   Police Department, see
Ch. 37
BOARD OF HOUSING AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE APPEALS
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Housing and Property Maintenance
Appeals, see the city’s Property Maintenance Code, adopted by §
152.01 of this code of ordinances.
(`96 Code, § 35.01)
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
§ 36.10 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Civil Service Commission, see KRS Ch. 15.
(`96 Code, § 35.10)
PARK COMMISSIONERS BOARD
§ 36.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There shall be within the city a Park Commissioners Board, as set out under
authority of KRS 97.465. This Park Commissioners Board shall serve the city as
an advisory board only. Pursuant to KRS 97.020, all powers relating to parks,
playgrounds, and recreation in the city, subject to the provisions of KRS
97.020, are vested with and in the city.
(`96 Code, § 35.20) (Ord. 1959-2-1, passed 4-16-1959; Am. Ord. 1982-3-1, passed
3-24-1982; Am. Ord. 2017-7, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 36.21 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   (A)   The Park Commissioners Board shall consist of five members, to be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   They shall serve for a term of two years and until their successors
are appointed and qualified.
(`96 Code, § 35.21) (Ord. 1959-2-1, passed 4-16-1959; Am. Ord. 1982-3-1, passed
3-24-1982; Am. Ord. 1989-6, passed 3-22-1989; Am. Ord. 1990-2, passed 2-28-
1990; Am. Ord. 2017-7, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 36.22 OATH.
   (A)   Each person appointed to the Park Commissioners Board shall appear
before any person authorized to administer oaths of office pursuant to KRS
62.020 and subscribe to an oath that he or she will faithfully, diligently and
to the best of his or her ability perform all the duties as a member of the
Park Commissioners Board.
   (B)   The Board shall advise the legislative body of the city on appropriate
park and recreational programs and projects, and shall promote the full use of
all park facilities in the interest of the public as a whole. The Board shall
work with the City Administrative Officer, and the Public Works Project Manager
in visioning and planning to determine advised actions.
   (C)   The oath shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(`96 Code, § 35.22) (Ord. 1959-2-1, passed 4-16-1959; Am. Ord. 1982-3-1, passed
3-24-1982; Am. Ord. 2017-7, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 36.23 OFFICERS OF BOARD.
   As soon as it is convenient, the members of the Park Commissioners Board
shall meet and choose a President and Secretary from among its members, each to
serve for a term of one year. Annually, at the first meeting in January, a
President and Secretary shall be chosen. The duties of the officers shall be
the usual duties incumbent upon that office and other duties as the Park
Commissioners Board prescribes.
(`96 Code, § 35.23) (Ord. 1959-2-1, passed 4-16-1959; Am. Ord. 1982-3-1, passed
3-24-1982; Am. Ord. 2017-7, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 36.24 [RESERVED.]
§ 36.25 [RESERVED.]
§ 36.26 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Park Commissioners Board shall receive no compensation.
(`96 Code, § 35.26) (Ord. 1959-2-1, passed 4-16-1959; Am. Ord. 1982-3-1, passed
3-24-1982; Am. Ord. 2017-7, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 36.27 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments and
for the unexpired term.
(`96 Code, § 35.27) (Ord. 1959-2-1, passed 4-16-1959; Am. Ord. 1982-3-1, passed
3-24-1982)
§ 36.28 [RESERVED.]
§ 36.29 LEVYING OF TAXES; PARK FUND.
   (A)   For the purpose of purchasing and maintaining public parks within the
city limits, the City Council, under authority of KRS 97.590, may levy taxes
not exceeding $.05 on each $100 of all taxable property within the corporate
limits of the city.
   (B)   The funds derived from the levy shall be held by the City Clerk in a
separate fund designated the Park Fund. The city shall be responsible for
holding and spending of any funds collected via any park tax imposed by the
City Council and may only do so in a manner consistent with state law. The city
shall also keep records of any and all funds collected via a park tax (if any)
and shall keep records of how the monies collected via tax are expended.
(`96 Code, § 35.29) (Ord. 1959-2-1, passed 4-16-1959; Am. Ord. 1982-3-1, passed
3-24-1982; Am. Ord. 2017-7, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 36.30 [RESERVED.]
§ 36.31 [RESERVED.]
§ 36.32 DEDICATION OF LANDS OR BUILDINGS; ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
   The City Council may dedicate for use as playgrounds and recreation centers
any lands or buildings owned by the city and not devoted to an inconsistent
public use and may acquire real property for those purposes by purchase, lease,
condemnation or otherwise.
(`96 Code, § 35.32) (Ord. 1959-2-1, passed 4-16-1959)
§ 36.33 CHARGES FOR USE OF PARK GROUNDS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city staff is authorized to charge for and collect for rental of
equipment, facilities, and space, per the amounts determined by the legislative
body. The legislative body may establish fees for the use of the park area and
its facility by large groups. All fees, rental or other charges for the use of
any park area or its facilities shall be paid directly to the city.
   (B)   The revenue collected from the concessions, fees and rentals shall be
utilized for park maintenance, improvements and security and shall be kept by
the city in conformity of the requirements of any and all applicable state law.
(`96 Code, § 35.33) (Ord. 1990-13, passed 7-25-1990; Am. Ord. 2017-7, passed
12-14-2017)
URBAN DESIGN REVIEW BOARD
§ 36.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any construction, replacement, or change to the exterior of a
BUILDING or structure when it is visible to the public. An ALTERATION shall
include a proposed sign or changes to an existing sign. Painting and ORDINARY
MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS shall not be considered ALTERATIONS.
   BOARD. The Ludlow Urban Design Review Board as established in this
subchapter.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or constructed for residential, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, transportation, or other use.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The permit, issued by the BOARD, which gives
its approval for work or DEMOLITION to be done in a locally designated HISTORIC
DISTRICT or on a LANDMARK.
   CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A government meeting the requirements of the
National Historic Preservation Act in the implementing regulations of the U.S.
Department of Interior and the Kentucky Heritage Council.
   CITY. The City of Ludlow, Kentucky.
   COUNCIL. The Ludlow City Council.
   DEMOLITION. Any act destroying, in whole or in part, or moving, a
LANDMARK, BUILDING, or structure deemed by the BOARD to be of historic
significance.
   DESIGNATED PROPERTY. A LANDMARK, BUILDING, or structure in a HISTORIC
DISTRICT. DESIGNATED PROPERTY shall include all lots within a HISTORIC DISTRICT
and the entire lot containing a LANDMARK.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area of architectural, historical, or cultural
significance.
   INVENTORY OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES AND SITES. A catalog of historical sites.
   LANDMARK. A BUILDING or structure of architectural, historical, or cultural
significance which meets one or more of the criteria contained in this
subchapter and which has been designated by the CITY.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS. Any work, the purpose of which is to
correct deterioration or to prevent deterioration of a designated historic
property. The work shall restore the property to its appearance prior to
deterioration or shall result in the protection of its present appearance. The
work shall involve the use of the same building materials or available
materials that are as close as possible to the original. Work that changes the
external appearance of the property shall be considered an ALTERATION for
purposes of this subchapter.
   PRESERVATION PLAN. Guidelines and/or regulations for the rehabilitation of
certain sites, structures, and/or areas to incorporate them into a livable
community.
   SECTION 106 REVIEW. The process set forth in National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966, 16 U.S.C. §§ 470, et seq., as amended, and 36 CFR § 800, which
requires federal agencies to consider the effects on historic properties of any
project carried out by them or that receives federal financial assistance,
permits, or approvals.
   STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION OFFICE or SHPO. The Kentucky program approved by
the U.S. Secretary of Interior for the purpose of carrying out the provisions
of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 16 U.S.C. §§ 470a, et seq.,
and is also the Kentucky Heritage Cabinet established pursuant to KRS 171.381.
   SURPLUS PROPERTIES. Properties owned by the CITY.
   UNDERTAKING. As used in SECTION 106 REVIEW, a project, activity, or program
funded in whole or in part under the direct or indirect jurisdiction of a
federal agency, including those carried out by or on behalf of a federal
agency; those carried out with federal financial assistance; and those
requiring a federal permit, license, or approval.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 36.51 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Board and the procedures for which it is responsible for
implementing are intended to protect, develop and promote the educational,
cultural, travel, industrial, commercial, and other economic development and
growth opportunities associated with the city's neighborhoods, areas, squares,
streetscapes, sites, places, structures having a special or distinctive
character or a special historic, aesthetic architectural, archaeological,
special, or cultural significance to the city. It is the unique character of
the city's residential neighborhoods and commercial districts that imparts
distinctiveness to the city and which serve as visible reminders of the history
and cultural heritage of the city, the state, and the nation. The protection of
these resources is in the interest of the economic well-being, prosperity,
health, safety, and general welfare of the people.
   (B)   The Board is established for the purpose of creating and maintaining
an inventory of historic properties and sites, assisting with the Section 106
Review process of the National Historic Preservation Act for undertakings
occurring in the city, reviewing city-funded activities when the activity may
affect historical properties identified in the inventory and preservation plan,
marketing any historic properties that the city may surplus in the future,
stabilizing and improving property values in the city, and encouraging new
buildings and developments that will be harmonious with the existing historic
buildings and districts, but will not necessarily be of the same architectural
style. Regulations in such areas are intended to protect against destruction of
or encroachment upon such areas, structures, or sites; to encourage uses which
will lead to their continuance, conservation, and improvement in a manner
appropriate to the preservation of the cultural, social, economic, political,
architectural, or archeological heritage of the city; to prevent creation of
environmental influences and adverse conditions to such purposes; and to assure
that new structures and uses in such areas will be in keeping with the
character to be preserved and enhanced. The purpose is to develop the city not
as a museum but as a vital living area in which each succeeding generation may
build with the quality and sensitivity of past generations.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 36.52 ESTABLISHMENT; MAKEUP.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of five members, with the City Administrative
Officer having a by-right position in the group to represent the city and
provide staffing support. The five members of the board will be recommended by
the Mayor and approved by Council. The following criteria must be met to
satisfy the minimum requirements for the Board. More than one criteria may be
fulfilled by the same appointed member.
   (B)   The membership shall meet the following criteria:
      (1)   One member shall represent the Ludlow Historic Society;
      (2)   One member shall represent the Ludlow Heritage Museum,
Incorporated;
      (3)   Two members that have training, education, or experience in
preservation-related fields, that include architecture, landscape architecture,
history, archaeology, architectural history, planning/zoning, building
materials, real estate appraisal, economic/community development, or related
fields. One of these two may not be a resident, so long as they have working
knowledge of the community and their expertise are not found amongst the
citizenry willing to serve; and
      (4)   Two members will be representing the community at large. A city
business owner that is not a resident may be appointed as one of the members
at-large.
   (C)   Members should be city residents, unless otherwise noted above, or in
a special circumstance.
   (D)   The Board shall keep accurate attendance figures and report annually
on the attendance of members. In the event that any member of the Board is
absent for more than one-fourth of the regularly scheduled meetings per
calendar year, the Mayor has the right to reconsider such Board member's
appointment and to recommend to Council a replacement for such Board member for
the reason of excessive absenteeism. Such replacement must be in accordance
with the general appointive guidelines of this section.
   (E)   Each Board member shall attend at least one informational or
educational meeting biennially that has been approved by the State Historic
Preservation Office (SHPO) or attend training that would aid in the performance
of their duties and responsibilities. Training not previously approved by the
SHPO shall be submitted to the city to be approved by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 36.53 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The members of the Board shall serve a term of four years and shall
serve without pay, but may be reimbursed by the city for necessary expenses
incurred in connection with their duties subject to prior approval by the
Mayor.
   (B)   Vacancies on the Board shall be filled within 60 days, with the
replacement completing the term of the previous member.
   (C)   Three members of the Board will begin with four-year terms and two
members of the Board will begin with two-year terms before beginning full four-
year terms.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 36.54 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Board shall elect from its membership a Chairperson, a Vice-
Chairperson, and a Secretary who shall serve for terms of one year and who
shall be eligible for re-election. The Chairperson shall preside over the Board
meetings and shall have the right to vote. In the absence or disability of the
Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall perform the duties of the Chairperson.
   (B)   The city shall provide staff support to the Board. City staff members
may assist the Board by providing technical advice or helping in the
administration of this code.
   (C)   Meetings of the Board shall be conducted as follows.
      (1)   A simple majority of the membership of the Board shall constitute a
quorum.
      (2)   The Board shall adopt and make public a set of bylaws for the
transaction of its business which shall provide for the time and place of
regular meetings and for the calling of special meetings. Special meetings
shall only be called by the Chairperson or by at least two members of the
Board.
      (3)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and a public
record must be kept of the Board's resolutions, proceedings, and actions. All
meeting shall have a previously available agenda and shall comply with the
Kentucky Open Meetings Statute, KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
      (4)   The Board shall hold at least four meetings per year, scheduled at
regular intervals in a public place.
      (5)   Notice of all meetings of the Board shall be made as follows:
         (a)   Published pursuant to KRS Ch. 424, not less than seven nor more
than 21 days prior to regular meetings or received no less than 24 hours prior
to special meetings; and
         (b)   At least 15 days prior written notice given by first class mail
to the owners of property and owners of property immediately adjacent to
property affected by matters under consideration by the Board.
   (D)   The recommendations of the Board shall be considered "approved" upon a
majority vote of the Board members present and voting, if a quorum is present.
These recommendations shall be signed by the Chairperson and the Secretary.
   (E)   The Board shall cause full minutes of its meetings to be kept, and
upon approval by the Board, they shall be filed with the Secretary of the
Board, who shall make them available for public inspection and shall file and
maintain them in a manner similar to that provided for minutes of Council
meetings.
   (F)   No member of the Board shall vote on any matter that may affect the
property, income, or business interest of that member or their family members.
Board members are not allowed to participate in discussions at Board meetings
about any property in which they or a family member have an interest and they
shall disqualify themselves prior to the beginning of a discussion about
property in which they have an interest.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 36.55 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Board shall conduct a continuing survey of historic and cultural
resources according to SHPO guidelines for purposes of determining those of a
distinctive character or special historic, aesthetic, architectural,
archeological, or cultural significance or value. The Board shall prepare and
maintain an inventory of these resources within the city for use by public
agencies and private owners. This inventory shall be referred to as the
inventory of historic properties and sites. The inventory shall identify
historic properties throughout the city and prioritize or rank these identified
properties and sites based on eminent risk of loss and historical value. The
format and content of, and subsequent additions or changes to, the inventory of
historic properties and sites shall be approved by the Board and submitted to
Council for approval.
   (B)   The Board, after completion of the initial inventory of historic
properties and sites, shall prepare and submit its recommendations for a
preservation plan for landmarks and historic sites and structures in the city
to the appropriate planning agency of the city for its consideration, review,
and alteration for proposed adoption by the city.
   (C)   The Board shall assist the city in its consultation with the Kentucky
SHPO for the Section 106 Review on all projects which are deemed a federal
undertaking. The Board's review and comments shall be included in all Section
106 submissions to the SHPO.
   (D)   For purposes of Section 106 Review, and where appropriate, the Board,
in consultation with the city and the SHPO, may expand the definition for what
will be considered "historic properties" at the local level from the federal
definition outlined in 36 CFR §§ 800.16(l)(1) and (l)(2) to include other
resources with local significance deemed worthy of preservation.
   (E)   The Board shall review and comment on any plans for new construction
prior to demolition of, or alteration to, identified historic properties
(buildings, streetscapes, structure, or sites) to help ensure appropriateness
and compatibility of design of new construction, and consider alternatives for
rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of existing historic properties. The
inventory and preservation plan established through divisions (A) and (B) will
inform this review. When the city is unable to implement recommendations made
by the Board, the city will continue to consult with the Board in the
development of alternatives.
   (F)   The Board shall assist the city in surplus of city-owned historic
properties to prospective owners interested in historic preservation prior to
these properties being listed on the open market, auctioned, or demolished. The
Board may, upon request by the city, propose plans to prospective owners for
the rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of individual historic structures.
   (G)   The Board shall make recommendations to the city for the designation
of historic landmarks, and shall assist in determining recommended areas for
historic preservation overlay zones.
   (H)   The Board shall make decisions on requests for certificates of
appropriateness. The Board shall use the city design guidelines or any
applicable Chapter 99 Development Plan area guidelines in making decisions on
these requests to alter, demolish, relocate, or add to a designated property,
or to build a new structure in designated historic preservation overlay zones
or Chapter 99 Development Plan areas. The guidelines may include the United
States Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation.
   (I)   The Board shall make decisions on requests for exterior alterations,
demolitions, and new construction in historic preservation overlay zones.
   (J)   The Board may initiate plans for the rehabilitation of individual
historic structures in the city.
   (K)   The Chairperson of the Board shall have the power to administer an
oath to witnesses prior to testifying before the Board on any issue.
   (L)   In the development of the certified local government program, the city
may ask the Board to perform other responsibilities that may be delegated to
the city under the National Historic Preservation Act.
   (M)   The Board shall administer the Main Street facade program.
(Ord. 2018-4, passed 7-12-2018)
CHAPTER 37: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Chief of Police; duties
   
37.02   Assistant Chief of Police
   
37.03   Entering bars or taverns while on duty; exception
   
37.04   Officers to have same authority off duty as when on duty
   
37.05   Rules and regulations for the Police Department
   
37.06   Repayment of training costs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 CHIEF OF POLICE; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Office of the Chief of Police shall be a nonelected office.
   (B)   This position, and that person holding this position, shall receive as
a salary that amount prescribed by the City Council and shall be, from time to
time, set by ordinance, along with the other members of the Police Department.
(Ord. 1054, passed 5-12-1949)
   (C)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall be second in command to the Mayor of
the Police Department.
      (2)   He or she shall attend all sessions of the City Council, execute
its orders and preserve order at its sessions.
      (3)   The Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department shall
cause proceedings to be instituted against any person carrying on business or
doing any act without a license for which a license is required.
(`96 Code, § 36.01)
§ 37.02 ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Assistant Chief of Police shall act under the direction of the
Chief of Police and the authority granted under state statutes to the Mayor in
fourth class cities and shall perform any other duties as may be required of
him or her from time to time by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   In the absence of the Chief of Police, he or she shall assume and
perform all of those duties devolved upon the Chief. Absence under this section
shall not mean when the Chief of Police is simply off duty; but it is
understood to mean when the Chief of Police is on vacation, sick leave or
otherwise out of service of the city.
   (C)   He or she shall file those reports that may be necessary to the Mayor,
City Council or Chief of Police that may come within his or her jurisdiction
during his or her working period.
   (D)   Appointment to the position of Assistant Chief of Police shall be made
by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
   (E)   To qualify for the position of Assistant Chief of Police a police
officer must have been in the service of the Police Department for a period of
at least five years at the time of his or her appointment; he or she must
further be in good physical condition and if requested by the Council, present
a medical certificate from any competent physician showing his or her physical
condition prior to the appointment.
   (F)   The Assistant Chief of Police shall not participate in the rotating
program of the Police Department.
   (G)   The Assistant Chief of Police shall work the hours as assigned by the
Chief of Police.
   (H)   The person holding this position shall receive as a salary that amount
as prescribed by the City Council as set out in the budget of the city or by
the Mayor, if not set out in the budget with all other members of the Police
Department.
(`96 Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 1960-3-2, passed 4-14-1960; Am. Ord. 1988-16, passed
6-22-1988; Am. Ord. 1989-9, passed 5-24-1989; Am. Ord. 2003-1, passed 1-23-
2003)
§ 37.03 ENTERING BARS OR TAVERNS WHILE ON DUTY; EXCEPTION.
   No police officer shall be allowed to enter any bars or taverns where
intoxicating liquors are sold while on a regular tour of duty, except in the
discharge of his or her duty, nor be drunk while on duty. Any police officer
violating this section shall be fined, suspended or discharged, as set forth
herein.
(`96 Code, § 36.03) (Ord. 266, passed 10-15-1891) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 37.04 OFFICERS TO HAVE SAME AUTHORITY OFF DUTY AS WHEN ON DUTY.
   Police officers shall have the same official powers when off duty as when on
duty.
(`96 Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 266, passed 10-15-1891)
§ 37.05 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The rules and regulations for the Police Department included in its
uniformed employees’ personnel policy and all sections that are a part thereof,
a copy of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, and which
was adopted by Ord. 1987-3, is hereby adopted in full as a part of this code by
reference as if fully set out herein. These rules and regulations were prepared
in 1979 and amended in 1985 by the Northern Kentucky Area Development District.
(`96 Code, § 36.05) (Ord. 1987-3, passed 5-13-1987)
§ 37.06 REPAYMENT OF TRAINING COSTS.
   All police appointees, as a condition of their appointment, must agree to
reimburse the city for their training expenses if they leave the city within
three years after their appointment date and become employed by another
governmental unit or entity as a member of the same service for which they were
trained by the city according to the following schedule:
   (A)   If they remain with the city for more than three years after the date
of employment or hire, there shall be no obligation of repayment.
   (B)   If they leave the city prior to their first anniversary date, they
shall reimburse the city 100%.
   (C)   If they leave the city after the first anniversary date of their
employment, but prior to their second year anniversary, they shall reimburse
the city 66.33%.
   (D)   If they leave the city after the second anniversary date of their
employment, but prior to their third anniversary, they shall reimburse the city
33.33%.
(`96 Code, § 36.06) (Ord. 8, passed 5-8-1991)
CHAPTER 38: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Establishment
   
38.02   Fire Chief
   
38.03   Other positions in the fire department
   
38.04   Rules and regulations
   
38.05   Qualifications of members
   
38.06   City Clerk-Treasurer to be responsible for the fire protection and
emergency medical services fund
   
38.07   Ad valorem tax for fire protection and emergency medical services
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A fire department is hereby established in the city to be known as the
Ludlow Fire Department.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 1-23-2003)
§ 38.02 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The position of Fire Chief is hereby established.
   (B)   Appointment to the position of Fire Chief shall be made by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council.
      (C)   The Fire Chief shall be second in command to the Mayor of the Fire
Department.
      (D)   The Fire Chief shall attend all sessions of the City Council,
unless excused by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 1-23-2003)
§ 38.03 OTHER POSITIONS IN THE FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Mayor, with the approval of City Council shall establish such other
positions and ranks within the Fire Department that is deemed appropriate for
its orderly management and efficient operation of the department.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 1-23-2003)
§ 38.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor, in consultation with the Fire Chief and other members of the Fire
Department, shall propose rules and regulations that are deemed necessary for
the operation of the Fire Department which shall be subject to approval by City
Council.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 1-23-2003)
§ 38.05 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall be composed of both volunteers and employees
of the city, all of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   To be eligible to be appointed a member of the Fire Department, a
person must be a citizen of the Commonwealth and at least 18 years of age. Such
other qualifications to be a member of the Fire Department shall be as
established by Kentucky law or by such other rules and regulations proposed by
the Mayor and approved by Council.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 1-23-2003)
§ 38.06 CITY CLERK-TREASURER TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FIRE PROTECTION AND
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be the city officer responsible for the
care and safekeeping of all records regarding the Fire Protection and Emergency
Medical Services Fund.
   (B)   The proceeds of said Fund shall be kept apart from all other funds of
the city and accounted for separately.
   (C)   Said Fund shall be utilized to operate the City of Ludlow Fire
Department, to provide fire protection and emergency medical services
(including personnel), to purchase, maintain and repair vehicles and other
equipment necessary to provide fire protection and emergency medical services.
(Ord. 2003-2; passed 1-23-2003)
§ 38.07 AD VALOREM TAX FOR FIRE PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   (A)   In order that the city may provide funding for services described and
identified as to operate a fire department and provide fire protection and
emergency medical services (including personnel) as well as to be able to
purchase and maintain and repair vehicles and other equipment necessary to
provide the fire protection and emergency medical services in the city;
commencing in the fiscal year 2020-2021, and continuing during each fiscal year
thereafter (hereinafter referred to as the Services), there is hereby levied a
special ad valorem tax annually at the rate of $.175 on each $100 of assessed
valuation of real estate, personal and mixed property within the city, which
tax is deemed and found by the Council of the city to be sufficient to defray
the cost of the Services. The tax for the fiscal year 2020-2021 shall be based
upon the assessed evaluation of all taxable property within the city as of
October 31, 2020, and all succeeding fiscal years the tax shall be based upon
the assessed evaluation of all taxable property within the city as the January
1, immediately proceeding the fiscal year. The assessed value of all real and
personal property subject to the ad valorem tax shall be assessed at the value
as finally determined by the Property Valuation Administrator of Kenton County,
Kentucky.
   (B)   The tax herein imposed shall be due on October 31, 2020. Anyone
failing to pay the tax by October 31, 2020, shall be deemed delinquent and the
bill shall have added thereto a penalty of 15% percent of the amount thereof,
and shall bear interest at the rate of 8.5% per annum from November 1, 2020
until paid.
   (C)   The tax revenues generated by the special ad valorem tax shall be in
addition to other taxes imposed by the city and shall be used solely for the
Services. The special ad valorem tax shall be due at the same time and be
collected in the same manner, from time to time in effect, as the other ad
valorem taxes levied by the city and taxes not paid shall be subject to the
same interest, penalty and cost of collection expenses, from time to time in
effect, as are other ad valorem taxes levied by the city.
   (D)   There is hereby created a separate fund to be known as the Fire
Protection and Emergency Medical Services Fund (hereinafter referred to as the
Fund) and to which shall be transferred and set aside the proceeds of the
special ad valorem tax. All proceeds of the funds shall be kept apart from the
other funds of the city and shall be accounted for separately. The proceeds in
the Fund shall be invested in accordance with applicable law and all income
derived therefrom shall be carried to the credit of said Fund and shall become
a part of the proceeds of said Fund. The proceeds constituting the Fund shall
not be disbursed, expended, pledged, encumbered or transferred for any use or
purpose other than provided by this section. Any proceeds remaining in the Fund
at the end of any fiscal year shall remain in the Fund and shall be carried
over to the succeeding fiscal year for use as provided by this section.
   (E)   To the extent permitted and in accordance with the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and other applicable law and regulations, proceeds
anticipated to be derived and the proceeds held in the Fund so derived, from
the special ad valorem tax levied hereunder maybe pledged, encumbered, and/or
expended to pay for the principal and interest on any indebtedness incurred,
including bonds issued by the city to carry out and perform the Services.
   (F)   In any fiscal year in which the Council of the city determines that
the full amount of the special ad valorem tax levied hereunder is not necessary
to fund the services, the city may by ordinance in any fiscal year reduce the
rate of the special ad valorem tax for such year below the amount set forth
herein. In any fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the special ad
valorem tax may have been reduced by the ordinance, the special ad valorem tax
rate shall revert to the maximum amount as set forth in this section unless
reduced for such subsequent year by ordinance.
(Ord. 2002-16, passed 11-14-2002; Am .Ord. 2011-17, passed 9-8-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-17, passed 9-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed 9-19-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-7,
passed 9-24-20)
CHAPTER 39: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
39.01   Personnel; adoption of regulations
   
39.02   Racial profiling; adoption of policy
   
39.03   Return check fee
   
39.04   Grants; application procedure
   
39.05   Procedures and requirements for the issuance of administrative search
warrants
§ 39.01 PERSONNEL; ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The policies and procedures, classification plan and pay plan
developed pursuant to this section shall be the system of personnel for the
city.
   (B)   These policies and procedures, classification and pay plan may be
revised, altered or suspended only by action of the City Council.
(`96 Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 1988-15, passed 6-2-1988)
§ 39.02 RACIAL PROFILING; ADOPTION OF POLICY.
   (A)   The protection of and the preservation of the constitutional and civil
rights of individuals remains one of the paramount concerns of government and
law enforcement in particular. To safeguard these rights, law enforcement
personnel shall not engage in any behavior or activity that constitutes a
search, shall not be solely motivated by consideration of race, color or
ethnicity. Stops, detentions or searches shall be based on articulable
reasonable suspicions, observed violations of law or probable cause, and shall
comply with accepted constitutional and legal provisions, and with the Code and
Cannon of Ethics adopted by the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council through Peace
Officer Professional Standards.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      RACIAL PROFILING. A process that motivates the initiation of a stop,
detention or search which is solely motivated by consideration of an
individual’s actual or perceived race, color or ethnicity or making
discretionary decisions during the execution of law enforcement duties based on
the above  stated considerations. Nothing shall preclude an officer from
relying on an individual’s actual or perceived race, color or ethnicity as an
element in the identification of a suspect or in the investigation of a crime,
a possible crime or violation of law or statute.
   (C)   All officers shall complete the Kentucky Law Enforcement Council
approved training related to racial profiling. The training shall comply with
federal law, state statutory provisions, case law and other applicable laws,
regulations and established rules.
   (D)   An officer who violates a provision of this policy shall be subject to
the agency’s disciplinary procedures, which shall be consistent with other
penalties imposed for similar officer misconduct.
(Ord. 2001-15, passed 8-23-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 39.03 RETURN CHECK FEE.
   There is hereby established a fee of $25 that will be charged for every
check that is returned due to non-sufficient funds or for any other reason.
This fee will be charged to the person or entity who signed or presented the
check.
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 5-25-2000)
§ 39.04 GRANTS; APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No officer, employee or agent of the city is authorized to make an
application for any state or federal grant monies or to agree to administer any
other entity’s grant funds or program, without the express authorization of the
City Council. The authorization shall be issued by a municipal order. No
officer of the city is authorized to sign a grant application unless approved
by municipal order.
   (B)   When a municipal order is approved providing an authorization to apply
for a grant or to administer a grant, the municipal order shall provide where
the funds shall be deposited and who shall be the signatory or signatories
authorized to make expenditures from the fund. The deposits must be made in an
official depository of the city.
   (C)   (1)   In the event the grant application is accepted and grant funds
received or the city receives grant funds to administer for another entity, the
funds shall be deposited consistent with the provisions of the municipal order
authorizing the grant application or administration.
      (2)   The records regarding the administration of the grant funds shall
be made available as public record and shall be reported on by the Mayor not
less than every three months consistent herewith.
   (D)   The funds shall be subject to annual audit by the city auditors
retained consistent herewith.
   (E)   (1)   As to any grant funds currently administered by any officer,
employee or department of the city, there shall be a disclosure to the City
Council and Mayor of any and all grant funds, where they are presently
deposited, their account numbers and a copy of any and all records regarding
receipts and disbursements.
      (2)   The funds shall be considered immediately frozen, and no further
disbursements shall be made until the City Council approves a municipal order
establishing who shall be the official depository for the funds, who shall
administer and be the signatory for the funds, the first of the herein required
quarterly financial statements consistent herewith and appointment of an
auditor consistent herewith has been completed.
   (F)   As to grant funds disclosed under division (E) above any and all city
officers, employees and departments shall comply with the direction of any
municipal ordinance adopted under division (E) above within ten days of the
enactment of the order.
(Ord. 2001-3, passed 2-22-2001)
§ 39.05 PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR THE ISSUANCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE SEARCH
WARRANTS.
   (A)    Administrative search warrant defined. An administrative search
warrant is a written order of a judge or other officer authorized by statute to
issue search warrants that commands the search or inspection of any property,
place or thing, and the seizure, photographing, copying, or recording of
property or physical conditions found. An administrative search warrant
authorizes an officer to enter any premises to conduct any inspection,
sampling, and other functions required or authorized by law to determine
compliance with the provisions of an ordinance, code, or other regulation
including, but not limited to, those relating to the use, condition, or
occupancy of property or structures.
   (B)   Who may apply for warrant.
      (1)   Whenever a law requires or authorizes an inspection or
investigation of any place or thing, the administrative officer charged to
enforce that law, acting in the court of his or her official duties, may apply
for an administrative search warrant. For this purpose, administrative officer
includes a building inspector, code enforcement officer, fire marshal, their
deputies, or other duly authorized representative, as the case may be.
      (2)   Before filing an application for an administrative search warrant,
the administrative officer shall consult with counsel as to its legality in
both form and substance.
   (C)   Contents of application.
      (1)   The application shall:
         (a)   Be supported by affidavit sufficient under Section 10 of the
Kentucky Constitution and be sworn to before an officer authorized to
administer oaths as provided in the Kentucky Rules of Criminal Procedure or
other applicable law;
         (b)   State the applicant’s status in applying for the warrant, the
ordinance or regulation requiring or authorizing the inspection or
investigation, and the nature, scope and purpose of the inspection to be
performed;
         (c)   Describe the property or places to be entered, searched,
inspected or seized in sufficient detail and particularity that the officer
executing the warrant can readily ascertain it;
         (d)   State:
            1.   That, for the purpose of making an inspection, access to the
property has been sought from and refused by the regulated parry;
            2.   that, after making a reasonable effort, the applicant has been
unable to locate the regulated party; or
            3.   That the facts or circumstances reasonably show that the
purposes of the inspection or investigation might be frustrated if entry were
sought without first procuring a warrant; and
         (e)   State the basis upon which sufficient cause exists to search or
inspect for violations of the ordinance or regulation specified.
   (D)   Grounds for issuance.
      (1)   An administrative search warrant may issue upon a showing that
probable cause for the inspection or investigation exists and that the other
requirements for granting the warrant are satisfied. Probable cause may be
shown by:
         (a)   Reasonable legislative or administrative standards for
conducting a routine, periodic, or area inspection and that those standards are
satisfied with respect to the location;
         (b)   A reasonable administrative inspection program exists regarding
the condition of the property and that the proposed inspection comes within
that program;
         (c)   A health, public protection or safety ordinance, regulation,
rule, standard or order and that specific evidence of a condition or
nonconformity exists with respect to the particular location; or
         (d)   An investigation is reasonably believed to be necessary in order
to determine or verify the condition of the location.
      (2)   A copy of the administrative search warrant and supporting
affidavit shall be retained by the issuing officer and filed by such officer
with the clerk of the court to which the warrant is returnable.
   (E)   Contents of warrant.
      (1)   The warrant;
         (a)   May direct its execution and return by the administrative
officer charged to enforce the ordinance or regulation specified in the
application;
         (b)   Shall specify the property, place, structure, premises, vehicle
or records to b searched, inspected or entered upon in sufficient detail and
particularity that the officer executing the warrant can readily ascertain it;
         (c)   May contain a direction as to the time and manner of its
execution; and
         (d)   Shall command the return to the appropriate court of any
evidence of ordinance violations found, or of any property seized pursuant
thereto, or a description of such property seized, to be dealt with according
to law.
   (F)   Execution and return.
      (1)   Unless otherwise prescribed in the warrant, the officer executing
an administrative search warrant shall make return thereof to the appropriate
court within a reasonable time of its execution. The return shall show the date
and hour of service.
      (2)   Except as provided in the following sentence, in executing a search
warrant the person authorized to execute it shall before entry make a
reasonable effort to present credentials, authority and purpose to an occupant
or person in possession of the location designated in the warrant and show him
or her the warrant or a copy thereof upon request. In executing a search
warrant, the personal authorized to execute the warrant need not inform anyone
of his or her authority and purpose, as prescribed in the preceding sentence,
but may promptly enter the designated location if it is at the time unoccupied
or not in the possession of any person or at the time reasonably believed to be
in such condition, but shall orally announce their credentials and authority to
execute the warrant prior to entry.
      (3)   If any property is seized incident to the search, the officer shall
give the person from whose possession it was taken, if the person is present,
an itemized receipt for the property taken. If no such person is present, the
officer shall leave the receipt at the site of the search in a conspicuous
place. The return shall be accompanied by any photographs, copies or recordings
made, and by any property seized, along with a copy of the itemized receipt of
such property required by this section.
      (4)   The officer may summon as many persons as he deems necessary to
assist him in executing the warrant and may request that a peace officer assist
in the execution of the warrant.
(Ord. 2006-14, passed 9-28-2006)
CHAPTER 40: CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
General Provisions
   
40.01   Title
   
40.02   Findings
   
40.03   Purpose; authority
   
40.04   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
40.20   Conflict of interest in general
   
40.21   Conflict of interest in contracts
   
40.22   Receipt of gift
   
40.23   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
40.24   Representation of interests before city government
   
40.25   Misuse of confidential information
   
40.26   Post-employment restriction
   
40.27   Honoraria
   
40.28   Nepotism prohibited
Financial Disclosure
   
40.40   Who must file
   
40.41   When to file statements; amended statements
   
40.42   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
40.43   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
40.44   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
40.45   Noncompliance with filing requirement
 
   
40.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 40.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Ludlow Code of
Ethics.
(`96 Code, § 39.01) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994)
§ 40.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of the city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees; and
   (C)   The government of the city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(`96 Code, § 39.02) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994)
§ 40.03 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements of the city
shall be clearly established and uniform in nature.
   (B)   It is further the purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003 et seq.
(`96 Code, § 39.03) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994)
§ 40.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The City of Ludlow Board of Ethics, which is created and
vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of
the city’s code of ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the county clerk or secretary of
state, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the county clerk or secretary of
state.
   CITY. The City of Ludlow, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, non-stock corporation or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by the city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, who is employed by or
provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE shall not include any
contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, who is one of the
following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A City Council member;
      (3)   The City Administrator;
      (4)   The City Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (5)   A Board of Adjustment, Park Board, Property Maintenance Board of
Appeals or Civil Service Commission member.
(`96 Code, § 39.04) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 40.20 CONFLICT OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall have an interest in a business or engage
in any business, transaction or activity, which is in substantial conflict with
the proper discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, agree to take or refrain from taking any disciplinary
action or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or employee to take or
refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter before the city in
order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee or any family member
has a financial interest; and/or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer or a business as defined in
divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession or other group.
   (E)   (1)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial
interest which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be
affected by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken
within the scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature
and value of the interest, in writing, to the City Council or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the City Council.
      (2)   The officer or employee shall refrain from taking any action with
respect to the matter that is subject to disclosure.
(`96 Code, § 39.20) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.21 CONFLICT OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct regarding contracts:
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer was elected to office, before
an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or before
an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any contract
entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or she was
elected to office, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee, is
renewable after he or she is elected to office, assumes the appointed office or
is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division (A) of this section
shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
of this section are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the City Council or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the City
Council or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the City Council or city agency that the
contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests of the public
and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply or other specific
reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the City
Council or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into
in violation of this section.
      (2)   Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(`96 Code, § 39.21) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.22 RECEIPT OF GIFT.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall, directly or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence or could reasonably be expected to influence
the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public duties.
(`96 Code, § 39.22) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.23 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public and then only to the extent
and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(`96 Code, § 39.23) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.24 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct regarding representation of interests
before city government:
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (C)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(`96 Code, § 39.24) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.25 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall use or disclose
information acquired in the course of his or her official duties, if the
primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or her personal
financial interest or that of another person or business. Information shall be
deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure pursuant to the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.800 to 61.884, at the time of its use or
disclosure.
(`96 Code, § 39.25) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.26 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(`96 Code, § 39.26) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.27 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s service with
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(`96 Code, § 39.27) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.28 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or, appointed official from voting on or participating
in the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
adoption of this chapter.
(`96 Code, § 39.50) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994) Penalty, see §
40.99
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 40.40 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and
   (D)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $10,000.
(`96 Code, § 39.40) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994; Am. Ord. 1995-3, passed
4-13-1995) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.41 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   All those listed under §
40.40 shall follow the provisions below with regard to filing of the disclosure
statement.
   (A)   (1)   All statements of financial interest shall be filed no later
than 5:00 p.m. on February 3 of each year, provided that an officer or employee
newly-appointed to fill an office or position of employment with the city or a
city agency shall file his or her initial statement no later than 30 days after
the date of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(`96 Code, § 39.41) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.42 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Board of Ethics or the administrative official designated by
the Board of Ethics. The Board or the designated administrative official shall
deliver a copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the
statement, by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 3 of
each year.
   (B)   The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official,
to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the
officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(`96 Code, § 39.42) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994)
§ 40.43 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The following provisions shall apply to all those required to file financial
statements with the Board of Ethics.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the custodian as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board or
the designated administrative official for a period of five years after filing;
provided that, upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be
an officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to
be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(`96 Code, § 39.43) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994)
§ 40.44 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   The following provisions shall apply to the financial interest statements
filed.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone and home
phone address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office or position of employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer
exceeding $5,000 during the preceding calendar year and the nature of the
income (e.g., salary, commission, dividends, retirement fund distribution and
the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer had, at any time during the
preceding calendar year, an interest of $10,000 at fair market value or 5%
ownership or more;
      (7)   Each source by name and address of gifts of honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer during the preceding
calendar year; and
      (8)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(`96 Code, § 39.44) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994)
§ 40.45 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The Board of Ethics or the designated administrative official shall notify,
by certified mail, each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
(`96 Code, § 39.45) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994) Penalty, see §
40.99
§ 40.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion or other disciplinary action
by the Mayor or city agency, or by any other officer or agency having the power
of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or discipline any officer or
employee for a violation of this chapter shall be taken in accordance with all
applicable ordinances and regulations of the city and all applicable laws of
the commonwealth.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who
fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice
under division (A) of this section within the time period established in the
notice shall be guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine
imposed by the Board in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum
total civil fine of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this
section may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if
the offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of
time.
      (2)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(`96 Code, § 39.99) (Ord. 1994-13, passed 10-27-1994)
CHAPTER 41: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
41.01   Definitions
   
41.02   Creation and membership
   
41.03   Enforcement powers
   
41.04   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation; organization of board; meetings; quorum; conflict of interest;
minutes and records
   
41.05   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
41.06   Enforcement proceedings
   
41.07   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
41.08   Presentation of cases
   
41.09   Appeals; final judgment
   
41.10   Ordinance fine schedule
   
41.11   Lien; fines, charges and fees
   
41.12   Lienholder notification system
   
41.13   Liens
   
41.14   Immediate action
   
41.15   Purpose
§ 41.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   JOINT CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting
under the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS
65.8801 to 65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
41.07(E);
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in §
41.06(F); or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
41.07(C).
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.02 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 65.8811(1)(b), the city participates in a Joint Code
Enforcement Board through an Interlocal Agreement executed with other
participating city and county members. This Joint Code Enforcement Board shall
operate in lieu of a City Code Enforcement Board, and have jurisdiction and
authority throughout the City of Ludlow in the same manner as a City Code
Enforcement Board created under KRS 65.8811(1 )(a).
   (B)   The city's representation on the Joint Code Enforcement Board is
established through the interlocal agreement with the participating cities and/
or Kenton County, and any and all amendments to the Interlocal Agreement. The
city shall appoint one member, and two alternate members to the Kenton County
Joint Code Enforcement Board. All appointments shall be made by the Mayor, with
approval of the City Council. Members of the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board shall serve consistent with the provisions of the Interlocal
Agreement.
   (C)   All appointments to the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board
shall be for a term of three years. Upon expiration of a term, a member or
alternate member may be re-appointed by the Mayor, with approval by the City
Council.
   (D)   Each member and alternate member appointed by the city to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall have resided within the boundaries of
the city for a period of at least one year prior to the date of the member's
appointment, and shall reside there throughout the term in office.
   (E)   In the event that the appointed member of the city vacates his/her
membership on the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board, the city shall,
following the procedures in KRS 65.8811, fill the vacancy within 60 days. If
the Mayor has not filled the vacancy within 60 days, then the remaining member
of the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall fill the vacancy with
another person who meets the qualifications in KRS 65.8811. All vacancies shall
be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   Any member or alternate member appointed by the Mayor to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board, pursuant to KRS 65.8811, may be removed by
the Mayor for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. In the
event of removal, the Mayor shall submit a written statement to the member
subject to removal, and to the City Council, setting forth the reasons for
removal. The member so removed shall have the right to appeal the removal to
the Kenton County Circuit Court.
   (G)   Any member or alternate member shall, prior to entering their duties,
take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   The members of the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board may be
compensated or reimbursed per the terms of the Interlocal Agreement, and its
amendments.
   (I)   No member or alternate member appointed by the city to the Kenton
County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or appointed office,
whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
   (J)   A copy of the governing interlocal agreement shall be maintained in
the Office of the City Clerk for inspection by the public.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.03 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION; ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM; CONFLICT OF INTEREST;
MINUTES AND RECORDS.
   Membership, oath and terms of office, quorum, vacancies, removal of members,
and other statutory requirements related to the Board's activities shall be as
stated in the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act and as set forth by
the Interlocal Agreement for the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board
(hereinafter "Interlocal Agreement") filed of record with the Kenton County
Clerk in Book C5439, Page 321 as incorporated by reference as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.05 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall have the powers and
duties as set forth by the Interlocal Agreement for the Kenton County Joint
Code Enforcement Board filed of record with the Kenton County Clerk in Book
C5439, Page 321 as incorporated by reference as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.06 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
41.14, if a Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on his personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a specified
period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged
violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified,
the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering a copy of the
citation to board Chairman.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.07 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged
violator, and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement
Officer or alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a
fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.08 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board may be presented by an attorney
selected by the city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a member
of the city's administrative staff.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.09 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
41.07(E) may be made to the Kenton County District Court within 30 days of the
date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a
complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil action
under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) of this section, the Code
Enforcement Board's order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.10 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board shall be subject to the schedule of civil fines as set forth
by separate ordinance.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.11 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city delegates the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board to
prepare and record liens on its behalf.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a nonappealable final order as defined by §
41.01, or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a
city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (C)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten years following the date
of the nonappealable final order or final court judgment.
   (D)   Subject to §
41.12, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (E)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A) of this section,
the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of this chapter. The city may bring a civil action against
the person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a
debt.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.12 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall establish and maintain
a lienholder notification system on behalf of the city. The Kenton County Joint
Code Enforcement Board shall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed
liens, as provided in §
41.11, in accordance with the provisions of KRS 65.8836.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.13 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
41.12(B) may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
41.12(D):
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
41.14.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
41.11 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
41.12 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A).
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45-day period established in
division (A) expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the expiration of
the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the County Clerk's office
where the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (F)    Failure of the city to comply with §§
41.11 and
41.12, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as
provided in division (C) of this section, shall not limit or restrict any other
remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.14 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
§ 41.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to conform to all provisions of KRS 65.8801
through 65.8839, commonly known as the "Local Government Code Enforcement
Boards Act" and any subsequent amendments thereto.
(Ord. 2016-12, passed 12-29-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
         
51.   ELECTRIC REGULATIONS
         
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Preparation of refuse and garbage
   
50.03   Containers
   
50.04   Storage of refuse and garbage
   
50.05   Collection practices
   
50.06   Waste collection assessments
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other
combustible material.
   DISPOSAL. The storage, collection, disposal, or handling of refuse or
garbage.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation , cooking or consumption of foods.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, except body wastes and garbage, and shall include
ashes and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Glass, metal, paper, plant growth, wood or nonputrescible solid
wastes.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-11-2002; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 10-24-2013)
§ 50.02 PREPARATION OF REFUSE AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   All refuse and garbage shall be drained free of liquids before
disposal.
   (B)   Garbage shall be wrapped in paper or similar material.
   (C)   All cans, bottles, or other food containers shall be rinsed free of
food particles and drained before disposal.
   (D)   Rubbish shall be either placed in approved containers, or cut and
baled, tied, bundled, stacked, or packaged so as not to exceed 36 inches in
length and 30 pounds in weight.
   (E)   Private property owners and/or their tenants shall not place out for
collection or otherwise place in the public right-of-way any rubbish, clothing,
mattresses, box springs, cushions, carpets, or other items unless the items are
completely encapsulated so as to cover and securely envelop all infested items
in plastic.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-11-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-20, passed 11-10-2011; Am. Ord.
2013-11, passed 10-24-2013) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Garbage containers shall be made of durable, water-tight, rust-
resistant material having a fly-tight lid and handles to facilitate collection.
   (B)   Refuse containers shall be made of durable water-tight, rust-resistant
material having a fly-tight lid and handles to facilitate collection or if
plastic bags are used, they shall be of heavy duty construction and securely
tied.
   (C)   Refuse and garbage containers for a residence shall not be less than
ten gallons, nor more than 96 gallons in capacity. Containers for commercial
establishments shall not exceed 96 gallons in capacity.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to permit the accumulation of residue of liquids,
solids, or a combination of such material on the bottom or sides of containers,
it being the intention of this provision that the interior of containers shall
be kept clean by thorough rinsing and draining as often as necessary.
   (E)   Paper or wooden boxes may be used as containers for rubbish, provided
such boxes when filled do not exceed 32 pounds in weight. Large stones and hot
ashes will not be collected.
   (F)   Large containers to be handled by special equipment may be used if the
contract collection has equipment to handle such containers. The containers
must have fly-tight lids, and be placed on the premises where the collector has
ready access.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-11-2002; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 10-24-2013)
§ 50.04 STORAGE OF REFUSE AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Each householder having refuse and/or garbage shall provide himself or
herself with approved refuse and garbage containers and shall place and keep
all refuse and/or garbage therein.
   (B)   Containers shall not be placed on the street right-of-way prior to 6:
00 p.m., local time, on the day before scheduled collections, and shall be
removed to the rear of the premises before 9:30 a.m., local time, the day
following scheduled collections.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to place refuse or garbage in any street, alley,
street, body of water, or any other public place, or upon private property,
whether owned or not, unless the refuse or garbage is placed in an approved
container.
   (D)   Owners and/or their tenants shall encapsulate and securely wrap in
plastic any upholstered furniture, mattresses, pillows, cushions, box springs
and similar items stored outside of a completely enclosed structure or placed
out for collection or otherwise placed in the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-11-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-20, passed 11-10-2011; Am. Ord.
2013-11, passed 10-24-2013)
§ 50.05 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   For the purpose of collection, refuse and garbage containers shall be
placed at ground level, and be made readily accessible to the collector. They
shall be on the side of the street from which collection is to be made.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A), above, householders,
commercial establishments, or other persons may, by contract, with collectors,
be permitted to place containers at agreed places upon their premises.
   (C)   Hotels, restaurants, institutions, and commercial establishments may
be required to have more frequent collection, if determined by the City Council
to be essential to protect the public health.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-11-2002; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 10-24-2013)
§ 50.06 WASTE COLLECTION ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Fee authorized. An assessment know as a waste disposal fee is
authorized and enacted in the sum of$24.50 per unit per month for the period of
July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024; $25.68 per unit per month for the period of
July 1, 2024 through June 30, 2025; and $26.91 per unit per month for the
period of July 1, 2025 through June 30, 2026 pursuant to the terms and
conditions of the City of Ludlow’s Solid Waste Collection Agreement attached to
Ordinance 2022-7, passed August 11, 2022, and incorporated therein by reference
as Exhibit “A”.
   (B)   City Treasurer authorized to collect.
      (1)   The City Treasurer is authorized, empowered, and directed to effect
the assessment and its collection by annual billing after the passage,
approval, and publication of this section.
      (2)   The assessment will be collected annually. The payment of the
assessment will be due and payable on or before October 31, unless the thirty-
first day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday in which event, the entire
amount is due and payable on the next regular business day.
   (C)   Delinquencies. The waste disposal fee bills shall become delinquent,
upon non-payment, and that a penalty of 10% shall then be added to the waste
disposal fee bills thereafter, and shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per
annum from the delinquent date, until paid. Said assessment shall constitute a
lien upon the property and be collectible in the same manner as tax levied
against real estate.
   (D)   Credit of fees and penalties. All fees and penalties so collected as
provided above, shall be credited to the General Fund of the City of Ludlow,
without reservation or restriction as to their use.
   (E)   Annual billing. This is an annual assessment fee, which is being
billed annually.
(Am. Ord. 6-1998, passed 7-9-1998; Am. Ord. 2005-15, passed 9-8-2005; Am. Ord.
2007-7, passed 8- 9-2007; Am. Ord. 2009-6, passed 7-9-2009; Am. Ord. 2011-11,
passed 6-2-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-18, passed 9-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-4, passed 6-
13-2013; Am. Ord. 2015-5, passed 6-25-2015; Am. Ord. 2022-7, passed 8-11-2022;
Am. Ord. 2023-8, passed 6-22-2023)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
50.01 through
50.05 shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $100 per day per
violation but not more than $500 per day per violation, or the cost to the city
to abate the public nuisance, or both. Each date that a violation of this
chapter continues after due notice has been served in accordance with the terms
of this chapter shall be deemed a separate offense to a maximum of $10,000 per
citation.
   (B)   As an additional alternative remedy to the above penalty, any violator
who violates any provision of the city nuisance code and has been previously
issued two or more citations of violations of the nuisance code relating to the
same property within a 12-month period may be assessed additional civil
penalties of $500 per day per violation to a maximum of $20,000 per citation.
   (C)   The city shall possess a lien on property for all fines, penalties,
charges, attorney’s fees, and other reasonable costs associated with enforcing
this chapter and placing a lien on a parcel of real property pursuant to this
chapter. The lien shall be superior to and have priority over all other liens
filed subsequently, except state, county, school board, and city taxes.
(Ord. 2002-6, passed 4-11-2002; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 10-24-2013)
CHAPTER 51: ELECTRIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Uniform State Building Code regulations adopted by reference
   
51.03   Northern Kentucky Electrical Authority
   
51.04   License required
   
51.05   Electrical permits
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations; Construction, see
Ch. 150
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL. Pertains to the installation, alteration, or repair of wires and
conduits for the purpose of transmitting electricity, and the installation of
fixtures and equipment in connection therewith.
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. Any licensed individual, partnership, or corporation
that is licensed to engage in, offers to engage in, or advertises or holds
itself out to be qualified to engage in designing, planning, superintending,
contracting of, or assuming responsibility for the installation, alteration, or
repair of any electrical wiring used for the purpose of furnishing heat, light,
or power, and employs electrical workers to engage in this practice. If the
electrical contractor is not a master electrician, the electrical contractor
shall employ at least one full-time master electrician.
   ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. Any person certified by the Commissioner of Housing,
Buildings and Construction pursuant to KRS 227.489 who, for compensation,
inspects the construction and installation of electrical conductors, fittings,
devices and fixtures for light, heat or power service equipment to ascertain
the compliance with the national Electric Code incorporated in the Uniform
State Building Code promulgated pursuant to KRS 198B.050 or the standards of
safety of the commonwealth.
   ELECTRICIAN. Any person licensed by the department who is employed by an
electrical contractor and is engaged in the construction, alteration or repair
of any electrical wiring used for the purpose of furnishing heat, light, or
power.
(`96 Code, § 158.01) (Ord. 5-1991, passed 3-11-1991)
§ 51.02 UNIFORM STATE BUILDING CODE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Uniform State Building Code, as is established by the State Board of
Housing, Buildings and Construction, is hereby adopted in full by this chapter
and the same shall have the effect as if it were written fully herein, as a
minimum standard for the construction, alteration and repair of any electrical
wiring done within the effective area of this chapter. These standards shall
also be used by the electrical inspector in making his or her inspections.
(`96 Code, § 158.02) (Ord. 5-1991, passed 3-11-1991)
§ 51.03 NORTHERN KENTUCKY ELECTRICAL AUTHORITY.
   The formerly established Northern Kentucky Electric Authority, the examining
and appeal board consisting of seven members, as authorized in KRS 227.450 to
227.500, shall:
   (A)   Administer electrical contractor’s examinations which have been
selected and approved by the Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction
and administer electrician examinations;
   (B)   Have the power to issue, renew, suspend and revoke electrical
contractor and electrician licenses;
   (C)   Have the power to require electrical contractors and electricians to
pay reasonable fees for examinations, initial licenses and renewals;
   (D)   Accept an electrical contractor examination certificate issued by the
Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction as evidence that an applicant
has met the examination requirements;
   (E)   Have the power to require all electrical contractors and electricians
to conform to reasonable standards prior to engaging in their occupation;
   (F)   Compile and submit to the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction all disciplinary actions taken against licensed electrical
contractors on a quarterly basis; and
   (G)   Have all other powers authorized for a local examining board by KRS
227.450 et seq.
(`96 Code, § 158.03) (Ord. 5-1991, passed 3-11-1991)
§ 51.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
installing, altering or repairing, within the limits of the city, any
electrical wiring, devices or equipment unless the individual is the holder of
the electrical contractor’s license or employed by a licensed electrical
contractor and a holder of an electrician’s license.
   (B)   Application for the license must be made in writing to the Board,
stating the name, experience and qualifications of applicant.
   (C)   Upon the applicant’s complying with the requirements of this chapter
and passing an examination approved by the Northern Kentucky Electric
Authority, a license shall be granted to the individual applying for the same.
(`96 Code, § 158.04) (Ord. 5-1991, passed 3-11-1991) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 ELECTRICAL PERMITS.
   (A)   Electrical permits shall be obtained prior to the installation,
addition, alteration, repair, relocation or removal of electrical wiring as
defined by the Kentucky Building Code.
   (B)   The cost of permit for electrical installation, additions,
alterations, repair, relocation or removal shall be $20.
   (C)   All electrical permits shall be obtained from the administrator
issuing city building permits.
(`96 Code, § 158.05) (Ord. 5-1991, passed 3-11-1991)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction in any court of competent
jurisdiction, shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $250, or
imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both, so fined and imprisoned in the
discretion of the court for each offense. Each day that the person, firm or
corporation violates this chapter or any provision thereof may be deemed a
separate offense.
(`96 Code, § 158.99) (Ord. 5-1991, passed 3-11-1991)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Outside toilets, cesspools, vaults or blind sewers prohibited
   
52.02   Maintenance responsibility for sewer lines
   
52.03   Maintenance fee
   
52.04   Sanitary sewer maintained by Sanitation District No. 1
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 90
   Trespassing around culvert drain, see §
130.01
§ 52.01 OUTSIDE TOILETS, CESSPOOLS, VAULTS OR BLIND SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to maintain, erect,
construct or operate an outhouse, outside toilet, cesspool, vault or blind
sewer either on private or public property within the confines of the municipal
limits. Furthermore, the existence of any of the above shall constitute a
nuisance, as being detrimental to the public health and in violation of the
public health laws of the commonwealth.
(`96 Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 949, passed 2-2-1939) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.02 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY FOR SEWER LINES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or customer to maintain
and pay for any repair, maintenance or excavation to sewer lines from the tap
in off the trunk line to the dwelling or building that it services.
(`96 Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 10-1995, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 52.03 MAINTENANCE FEE.
   (A)   There shall be established and collected a sewer maintenance charge
for all houses, apartments, hotels, motels, trailer camps and parks,
manufacturing or commercial establishments or any other building of any kind in
the city that maintains a system of pipes and drains located within or upon any
privately-owned real estate which provides for the collection and removal of
waste water therefrom, including all residential, commercial and industrial
establishments directly or indirectly connected with and serviced by the
sanitary sewer system and located within the city.
   (B)   The sewer maintenance charge will be $7 per quarter. This rate will be
retroactive to January 27, 2000. Any payments collected to each account that
exceeds $7 per quarter will be credited to that account.
   (C)   The sewer maintenance charge shall be billed as an add-on to the
user’s county sanitation bill.
   (D)   (1)   The rates and charges for sewer maintenance shall be billed to
the owners or occupants of the premises and, if the occupant of any of the
premises is not the owner, both the occupant and the owner shall be responsible
for the payment of the sewer bills.
      (2)   The rates and charges shall be billed quarterly and all bills for
the services shall be payable within ten days after rendition. If not paid
within ten days, the charges shall be deemed delinquent. The bills for sewer
services shall be collected and accounted for by county sanitation in the
manner as prescribed by law.
      (3)   If a bill is not paid within ten days after rendition, the city
shall, as authorized by KRS 96.930 through 96.943, issue to the party supplying
water services to the premises a direction to discontinue water service,
whether the water service bill shall have been paid or not.
      (4)   In the event the city shall issue such direction to the water
supplier, a penalty of 10% of the amount of the sewer service bill shall accrue
and be immediately due and payable; and in addition thereto, the delinquent
sewer user shall become liable to the city for the amount of a reasonable fee
of the water supplier for sending an employee to effect the discontinuance of
water service, as provided in KRS 96.936.
      (5)   When the delinquent sewer user shall have paid, in full, the amount
of the delinquent bill, together with the prescribed penalty and the amount of
the reasonable charge of the water supplier, the sewer user may then, as far as
the city is concerned, seek restoration of the discontinued water service upon
such terms and conditions as the water supplier may lawfully prescribe.
      (6)   The attorney for the city is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce and collect any charges remaining delinquent for 30 days.
(Ord. 1999-7, passed 1-27-2000; Am. Ord. 2000-11, passed 11-9-2000)
§ 52.04 SANITARY SEWER MAINTAINED BY SANITATION DISTRICT NO. 1.
   Sanitation District No. 1 maintains the sanitary sewer of Ludlow pursuant to
the agreement into which the city and Sanitation District No. 1 on August 21,
1995.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
         
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
   
70.06   School crossing patrol
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Equipment and Loads
   
70.50   State law adopted by reference
Golf Cart Regulations
   
70.65   Definitions
   
70.66   Golf cart operation requirements
   
70.67   Exemptions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection and such other portions of the roadway between
two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and marked
by stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(`96 Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer or to
fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, the
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, every person driving any animal on any roadway and every person
driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of this
traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions
of this traffic code which, by their very nature, can have no application.
(`96 Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(`96 Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of the city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
(`96 Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose such traffic
regulations as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed
two weeks. If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer
than two weeks, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the
extended order.
(`96 Code, § 70.05)
§ 70.06 SCHOOL CROSSING PATROL.
   (A)   In order to promote the safety of children attending school, there is
established a school crossing patrol to assist in directing vehicular and
school traffic at certain street intersections in the city on all school days
of the year. This patrol shall consist of three crossing guards to be selected
by the Chief of Police and to operate and function under his or her supervision
and control.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of this patrol to direct traffic at
intersections, provide for the safe conduct of school children using the
crossing and report to the Police Chief all motor vehicle violations of safety
and traffic regulations at intersections during their tour of duty.
   (C)   Applicants for the patrol must be at least 21 years of age, alert, in
good physical and mental health and of general good reputation and moral
standing in the community. They may be either male or female. The Chief of
Police will have the responsibility of selecting and hiring the patrol guards
and will have the final word in adjudging their qualifications.
   (D)   For their services members of the school crossing patrol will be
compensated in a sum as set by City Council.
(`96 Code, § 70.06) (Ord. 1966-1-3, passed 2-9-1966)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
the signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
the turn.
(`96 Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control
devices necessary within the city.
   (B)   (1)   All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall be employed
to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform and, as far
as possible, shall be placed uniformly.
      (2)   All traffic-control devices and signs shall conform to required
state specifications.
(`96 Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey
the signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchperson at railroad crossings unless otherwise directed by
a police officer.
      (2)   However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier or
sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
(`96 Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
(`96 Code, § 70.18) Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.
      (2)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
(`96 Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(`96 Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may, at his or her discretion, disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(`96 Code, § 70.21)
EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
§ 70.50 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The provisions of KRS 189.020 through 189.140, and the corresponding
statutory penalties, governing equipment on vehicles are adopted by reference
and made a part of this code as if set out herein.
   (B)   The provisions of KRS 189.150 and 189.210 through 189.230, and the
corresponding statutory penalties, governing vehicle loads are adopted by
reference and made a part of this code as if set out herein.
(`96 Code, § 74.01)
GOLF CART REGULATIONS
§ 70.65 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREET.  Shall include all public streets and throughfares located
within the city limits of the City of Ludlow, but shall not include any state
routes or state thoroughfares.
   GOLF CART. Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)    Has a minimum of four wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than 35 miles per
hour;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six persons, including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of 2,500 pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of one thousand two hundred
(1,200) pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards for low-speed
vehicles set forth in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500;
   PERMIT. A permit authorized to be issued under this section, issued by the
Permitting Authority upon receipt of an application developed by the City
Administrative Officer and receipt of payment of the permitting fee, for a
period not to exceed one year.
   PERMITTING AUTHORITY. The Chief of Police, City Clerk, or City
Administrative Officer.
   PERMITTING FEE. The amount of $75 per year, which shall be due and payable
prior to the issuance of any Permit. This permitting fee is designed to cover
the additional costs to administer the permitting program, and to cover the
costs of enforcing this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 9-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-22, passed 12-13-2012)
§ 70.66 GOLF CART OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The City of Ludlow hereby establishes the following requirements and
regulations concerning the operation of golf carts on city streets.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any city street, except in
strict compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any city street without having
obtained a permit and paid the permitting fee as required by this subchapter.
   (C)   Any person operating a golf cart on any city street must display a
sticker or permit issued by the city of, which identifies that the golf cart is
allowed to be operated on specific roadways within the city.
   (D)   All golf carts that are to be operated on city streets must be
inspected by the City of Ludlow Police Department to ensure that the golf cart
complies with the requirements of KRS 189.286. The inspection results shall be
submitted by the applicant for a permit at the time of application for the
Permit under this subchapter.
   (E)   Golf carts may only be operated on city streets that have a posted
speed limit of 20 miles per hour or less. No operator of a golf cart may cross
a roadway at an intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed
limit of more than 35 miles per hour.
   (F)   All persons operating a golf cart on city streets under this
subchapter must have a valid operator’s license in his or her possession.
   (G)   Golf carts may only be operated on city streets between sunrise and
sunset.
   (H)   All golf carts to be operated on city streets must display a slow
moving vehicle emblem in compliance with KRS 189.820.
   (I)   All golf carts to be operated on city streets shall be insured in
compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator, and the proof of
insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times of operation on a public
roadway.
   (J)   Any person operating a golf carts on city streets shall be subject to
the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189 and any other applicable provisions
of this code of ordinances pertaining to the operation of vehicles upon city
streets.
   (K)   All golf carts operating on city streets shall be equipped with rear
view mirrors, properly functioning lights (including brake lights, head lights,
and turn signals) and properly functioning brakes.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 9-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-22, passed 12-13-2012) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 70.67 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A golf cart operating on a public roadway under this subchapter is not
considered a motor vehicle and is exempt from:
      (1)   Title requirements of KRS 186.020;
      (2)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
      (3)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a golf cart that
is not used on a public roadway except to cross a roadway while following a
golf cart path on a golf course.
(Ord. 2012-15, passed 9-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-22, passed 12-13-2012)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is provided shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500.
   (B)   A late payment penalty of $25 shall be charged for any ticket
violation not paid within five days.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
70.65 through
70.67, except
70.66(B) shall, upon conviction of a first offense, be fined not less than $100
nor more than $250. Any person convicted of a subsequent violation of §§
70.65 through
70.67 within two years of a prior conviction under §§
70.65 through
70.67 other than a violation of §
70.66(B), or a first violation of §
70.66(B) shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $250 nor more than
$500. Any person convicted of a subsequent violation of §
70.66(B) within two years of a prior conviction under §§
70.65 through
70.67 shall be fined not less than $300 nor more than $500 and/or imprisoned
not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 1-1998, passed 7-9-1998; Am. Ord. 2012-15, passed 9-13-2012; Am. Ord.
2012-22, passed 12-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2016-6, passed 10-13-2016)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   State law adopted
   
71.02   Obstructing traffic
   
71.03   Reverse or U turns
   
71.04   Backing vehicles
   
71.05   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.06   Overtaking vehicles; traffic lanes; following vehicles
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Driving carefully; injury to street by vehicles
   
71.36   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.37   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.38   Speed limits
Parades
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Permit required
   
71.52   Application for permit
   
71.53   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.54   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.55   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.56   Alternative permit
   
71.57   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.58   Contents of permit
   
71.59   Duties of permittee
   
71.60   Public conduct during parades
   
71.61   Revocation of permit
Pedestrians
   
71.75   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals
   
71.76   Pedestrians’ right-of-way at crosswalk
   
71.77   Movement upon right half of crosswalk
   
71.78   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrians
   
71.79   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
71.80   Soliciting rides prohibited
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of KRS 189.010 et seq., and the corresponding statutory
penalties governing operation of vehicles are adopted by reference and made a
part of this code as if set out herein.
(`96 Code, § 71.01)
§ 71.02 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in a manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   (1)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance.
      (2)   Should the operator of any vehicle enter any intersection so marked
when there is insufficient room on the other side of the intersection to
accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-control signal
notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this division
rather than division (B) above.
(`96 Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (`96 Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in a manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
(`96 Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space, except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(`96 Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 OVERTAKING VEHICLES; TRAFFIC LANES; FOLLOWING VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking other vehicles proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left of them and shall not again drive to the
right until reasonably clear of those vehicles. The driver of a vehicle
overtaking streetcars may pass either to the right or left when so directed by
a police officer, when on a one-way street or where the location of the tracks
prevents compliance with this section, with regard for other traffic.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking a bicycle proceeding in the
same direction shall:
         (a)   If there is more than one lane for traffic proceeding in the
same direction, move the vehicle to the immediate left, if the lane is
available and moving in the lane is reasonably safe; or
         (b)   If there is only one lane for traffic proceeding in the same
direction, pass to the left of the bicycle at a distance of not less than three
feet between any portion of the vehicle and the bicycle and maintain that
distance until safely past the overtaken bicycle. If space on the roadway is
not available to have a minimum distance of three feet between the vehicle and
the bicycle, then the driver of the passing vehicle shall use reasonable
caution in passing the bicyclist.
      (2)   The driver of a motor vehicle may drive to the left of the center
of the roadway, including when a no-passing zone is marked in accordance with
division (F), to pass a person operating a bicycle only if the roadway to the
left of the center is unobstructed for a sufficient distance to permit the
driver to pass the person operating the bicycle safely and avoid interference
with oncoming traffic. This division does not authorize driving on the left
side of the center of the roadway when otherwise prohibited under state law.
      (3)   The operator of a bicycle shall not ride more than two abreast on a
single highway lane unless operating on any part of the roadway marked
exclusively for bicycle use. Persons riding two abreast shall not impede the
normal and reasonable movement of traffic.
   (C)   The operator of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (D)   The operator of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting the passing in safety, and not by
driving off the roadway unless the vehicle being passed is at a complete stop
and the passing may be made safely.
   (E)   (1)   A person shall not drive a vehicle to the left side of the
center of the roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction unless the left side is clearly visible and free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit overtaking and passing to be
completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
      (2)   In every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand
side of the roadway before coming within 200 feet of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
   (F)   The Commissioner of Highways is hereby authorized to determine those
portions of any highway where overtaking and passing or driving to the left of
the roadway would be especially hazardous and may be appropriate signs or
markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of the zones, and when
signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to an ordinarily observant
person, every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions thereof, except as
provided for in division (B)(2) of this section.
   (G)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into three or more clearly
marked lanes for travel in one direction, the following additional rules shall
apply.
      (1)   A person shall drive a vehicle as nearly as may be practical
entirely within a single lane and shall not move from that lane until the
driver ascertains that the movement can be made with safety;
      (2)   A person shall not drive a vehicle in the center lane, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and
the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation
for a left turn or where a center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to
traffic moving in the direction in which the vehicle is proceeding and is
signposted to give notice of the allocation;
      (3)   A person shall not operate a truck tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
in the leftmost lane except when entering or leaving a highway, yielding to
traffic coming onto the highway, or when traffic conditions exist which would
prohibit safe use of the right or center lanes; and
      (4)   Official signs may be erected directing slow-moving traffic to use
a designated lane or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same
direction and operators of vehicles shall obey the directions of these signs.
   (H)   On any limited access highway of four lanes or more with a posted
speed limit of at least 65 miles per hour, a person shall not operate a motor
vehicle in the leftmost lane, except when:
      (1)   Overtaking a slower vehicle;
      (2)   Yielding to traffic coming onto the highway; or
      (3)   Traffic or road conditions exist which would prohibit safe use of
the right or center lanes.
   (I)   (1)   Except as provided in division (I)(3), the operator of a motor
vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and
prudent, having regard for the speed of the vehicle and the traffic upon and
condition of the highway.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (I)(3), the operator of any motor
truck, semitrailer truck, bus, or heavy construction equipment unit, when
traveling upon a highway outside of a business or residential district, shall
not follow within 250 feet of another vehicle or equipment unit. This division
shall not prevent overtaking and passing, nor shall it apply to any lane
specially designated for use of motor trucks or semitrailer trucks, buses, or
heavy construction equipment units.
      (3)   Divisions (I)(1) and (I)(2) of this section shall not apply to a
trailing commercial motor vehicle involved in a platoon as defined in KRS
281.010, but shall apply to the commercial motor vehicle leading a platoon.
(KRS 189.340) (`96 Code, § 71.06) Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render assistance as may be needed.
(`96 Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person or an accident in which property is damaged shall
immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police Department.
(`96 Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 DRIVING CAREFULLY; INJURY TO STREET BY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in a
manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator’s license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) (`96 Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
stop and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of the Fire Department when the hose is laid down on any
street, private driveway or track for use at any fire alarm unless the Fire
Department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) of this section shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (`96 Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (`96 Code, § 71.27) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 SPEED LIMITS.
   Where no condition exists that requires lower speed for compliance with this
section, the speed of any vehicle not in excess of the limits specified in this
section or established as hereinafter authorized shall be lawful, but any speed
in excess of the limits specified in this section or established as hereinafter
authorized shall be unlawful.
   (A)   The speed at which motor driven vehicles may be operated upon all
public streets and ways within the limits of this city, with the exception of
state highways and public alleys, is set and established at the maximum speed
of 20 mph.
   (B)   The speed at which vehicles may be driven or operated upon public
streets designated as state highways within the city, namely, Elm Street and
Ludlow Highway is set, in conformity with state highway regulations regarding
the same, at 30 mph maximum speed.
   (C)   The movement of all vehicular traffic, motor driven or other, is
restricted to a maximum speed of 15 mph on the following parts of the streets,
and speeds in excess thereof are expressly prohibited: Kenner Street between
Linden and Poplar Streets; Davies Street between Elm and Poplar Streets; Poplar
Street between Kenner and Davies Street.
   (D)   The maximum speed at which any motor driven vehicle may be operated
upon and in any public alley within the city limits is set at ten mph.
(`96 Code, § 71.28) (Am. Ord. 1997-3, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 2001-6, passed
5-24-2001)
PARADES
§ 71.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
(`96 Code, § 71.40)
§ 71.51 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(`96 Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.52 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by the
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application information. The application for a parade permit shall set
forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication, in writing, from the person authorizing the applicant to apply
for the permit on his or her behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
(`96 Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods or event and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit; and
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
(`96 Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(`96 Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.55 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(`96 Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.56 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(`96 Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.57 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(`96 Code, § 71.47)
§ 71.58 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(`96 Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.59 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The parade chairperson or other person heading or leading the activity
shall carry the parade permit on his or her person during the conduct of the
parade.
(`96 Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.60 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle, shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
(`96 Code, § 71.50) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.61 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(`96 Code, § 71.51)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 71.75 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals at an intersection.
(KRS 189.570) (`96 Code, § 71.60) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.76 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY AT CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
71.78, where traffic-control signals are not in place or in operation the
operator of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to a pedestrian crossing the
roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection. If necessary in order to yield the right-of-way, the operator
shall slow down or stop.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any unmarked
crosswalk at an intersection, to permit a pedestrian to cross the roadway, the
operator of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and
pass the stopped vehicle.
(KRS 189.570) (`96 Code, § 71.61) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.77 MOVEMENT UPON RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(KRS 189.570(11)) (`96 Code, § 71.62) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.78 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing on the roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place, except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section every operator of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing a child or a confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(KRS 189.570(6)) (`96 Code, § 71.63) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.79 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   Pedestrians shall, at all times when walking on or along a highway, walk on
the left side of the highway.
(KRS 189.570) (`96 Code, § 71.64) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.80 SOLICITING RIDES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride.
(KRS 189.570(19)) (`96 Code, § 71.65) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter where no other penalty
is provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less
than $25, nor more than $500.
   (B)   A late payment penalty of $25 shall be charged for any ticket
violation not paid within five days.
   (C)   Violators of §
71.38 shall be subject to the fine schedule as set forth in KRS 189.394, as
amended.
(`96 Code, § 71.28) (Am. Ord. 1997-3, passed 5-22-1997)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Manner of parking
   
72.02   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.03   Parking in parks
   
72.04   Repair of vehicles while parked on or along city streets
   
72.05   Failure to display valid registration
   
72.06   [Reserved]
   
72.07   Violation and impoundment for unpaid parking citations
Illegally Parked Vehicles
   
72.20   Citing of illegally parked vehicles
   
72.21   Presumption with respect to illegal parking
   
72.22   Notice of violation
Vehicle Impoundment
   
72.30   Vehicle impoundment and impounded vehicle release
   
72.31   Vehicle lien, abandonment, escheat provisions and vehicle disposal
Administration
   
72.50   Hearing Board
   
72.51   Hearing to contest violation and appeal
   
72.52   Hearing on validity of impoundment and appeal
Other Vehicles; Banned Vehicles
   
72.60   Vehicles other than cars
   
72.61   Banned vehicle parking permit
Disabled Parking Space
   
72.70   Application required and criteria
   
72.71   Application guidelines
   
72.72   Additional eligibility
   
72.73   Appeal
 
   
72.99   Penalty
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. The backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs and shall indicate by markings on the pavement the
required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park the
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any of the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.01.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway. This does not include
blocking the driveway of a private residence by or with the permission of the
owner or person exercising legal control over the residence.
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties. This does include temporary
signs placed by the city for purposes including but not limited to:
      (1)   Street cleaning.
      (2)   Detours.
      (3)   Road closures.
      (4)   Parade routes.
   (G)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign or traffic control
device.
   (H)   Within a highway tunnel.
   (I)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (J)   In a properly marked fire lane.
   (K)   On any unpaved surface.
   (L)   At a bus stop.
   (M)   In a properly marked loading zone.
   (N)   In a properly marked handicapped space without displaying a
handicapped permit, decal or registration plate.
   (O)   On any city street or public way for periods or intervals of time
longer than 48 hours.
   (P)   At or adjacent to any curb that has been painted solid yellow.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING IN PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on
any section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway.
   (B)   However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 REPAIR OF VEHICLES WHILE PARKED ON OR ALONG CITY STREETS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, trailers and other
attachments to automobiles, trucks and motorcycles and all other agencies for
the transportation of persons or property upon the public streets and roads,
however propelled.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to jack or block up a motor
vehicle for the purpose of making repairs thereto or to make repairs of a
substantial nature to any motor vehicle while it is parked on or along the
streets or alleys of the city.
   (C)   Repairs of a substantial nature shall be construed to include repairs
to the motor of the vehicle, its transmission, its differential, its chassis,
its brakes or the body thereof.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or prohibit a
person from changing a tire or wheel of a motor vehicle on the streets or
alleys of the city and from employing a jack or block for the purpose of
accomplishing same.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 FAILURE TO DISPLAY VALID REGISTRATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, unless authorized by a sworn law
enforcement officer, to operate, park, leave or be in possession of a motor
vehicle or any trailer required to be registered that fails to have a current,
valid registration plate displayed in the manner described in KRS Chapter 186
on any street, alley, parking lot or parking space, which are open to the
public or to which the public is invited, whether owned or maintained by a
government entity or in conjunction with any business or enterprise, whether
public, quasi-public or private.
   (B)   The following exemptions shall apply:
      (1)   Private property to which the public is not invited, such as
residential lots;
      (2)   Motor vehicles and trailers which are exempted from registration
under KRS Chapter 186.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 [RESERVED].
§ 72.07 VIOLATION AND IMPOUNDMENT FOR UNPAID PARKING CITATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park on any city street, alley or public way
any vehicle for which the owner of such vehicle has previously been cited for
violations of this
Chapter 72, if the fines assessed as a result of such citation(s) have not been
paid within 30 days from the date of the citation.
   (B)   Any person or vehicle found in violation of this section is subject to
an additional fine as set forth in §
72.99 as well as being towed and impounded pursuant to §
72.30 of the City's Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014) Penalty, see §
72.99
ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES
§ 72.20 CITING OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   If any motor vehicle is found parked, standing or stopped in violation of a
parking ordinance passed by the city, the vehicle may be cited, for the
appropriate parking violation. The citing officer shall note the vehicle's
registration number and any other information concerning the vehicle which will
identify it and, if the driver is not present, shall conspicuously affix to the
vehicle a notice of the parking violation. Such notice shall include the
information set forth in KRS 82.610.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014)
§ 72.21 PRESUMPTION WITH RESPECT TO ILLEGAL PARKING.
   When the procedure set forth in §
72.20 has been followed in any prosecution charging a violation of any city
ordinance governing the parking, standing or stopping of a vehicle, proof that
the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of
any city ordinance, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was, at the time of the violation, the registered owner of the
vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the
registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked the vehicle where
the violation occurred.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014)
§ 72.22 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 82.615, any person who receives notice of a parking
violation (citation) shall respond to such notice as provided in this section
within seven days of the date of the notice, by either paying the fine set
forth in the notice (citation) or requesting a hearing pursuant to §
72.51 and KRS 86.620.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 82.615, if the owner of a vehicle cited for a parking
violation has not responded to the notice within seven days as provided in
division (A) of this section, the city shall send a second notice by regular,
first-class mail of the United States Postal Service to the last known address
of the registered owner of the vehicle as listed on the certificate of title.
Such notice shall state that if the owner of the vehicle does not respond to
the notice by either paying the fine or by requesting in writing a hearing
pursuant to §
72.51 and KRS 86.620, within seven days of the receipt of the notice, the owner
shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be final. Any person who
fails to request a hearing or pay the fine within the seven days shall be
deemed to have refused to pay the fine levied by the citation.
   (C)   The registered owner of a vehicle at the time the violation occurred
shall be liable for all fines, fees and penalties which he or she has refused
to pay.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014)
VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
§ 72.30 VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT AND IMPOUNDED VEHICLE RELEASE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, the city may impound a motor vehicle parked,
stopped or standing upon a street or public way within its jurisdiction in
violation of an ordinance or statute prohibiting parking, stopping or standing
in the location, manner or at the time the vehicle is cited or for any other
lawful reason.
   (B)   The release of an impounded vehicle shall be conditioned on the owner
or other person entitled to possession paying all fines and fees accrued as of
the date of the release, the displaying of current, valid identification, proof
of ownership or right to possession and current, valid insurance. A "tow only"
release may issued in cases where there is no insurance.
   (C)   If the owner or other person entitled to possession challenges the
validity of the impoundment pursuant to §
72.52(A), the vehicle shall be released upon the posting of the bond and the
displaying of current, valid identification, proof of ownership or right to
possession and current, valid insurance. A "tow only" release may issued in
cases where there is no insurance.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014)
§ 72.31 VEHICLE LIEN, ABANDONMENT, ESCHEAT PROVISIONS AND VEHICLE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 82.635, the city shall possess a lien on a motor
vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter for all fines, penalties, and
towing, handling and storage charges and fees imposed thereon. Such lien shall
be superior to and have priority over all other liens thereon.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 82.630, if within ten business days of
impoundment a motor vehicle impounded by the city has not been claimed, or
hearing has not been requested pursuant to §
72.30(C) and KRS 82.625, notice shall be mailed by certified mail to the
registered owner, if known, and lienholders of record, if any, affording the
parties the right within ten business days from the date of notice to claim the
vehicle or request a hearing pursuant to §
72.30(C) and KRS 82.625. The notice shall state that, if no hearing is
requested, the vehicle shall be deemed abandoned unless the charges thereon are
paid within 45 days of receipt of notice.
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 82.630, after 45 days from the date of notice
required by division (B)(1) of this section an impounded motor vehicle shall be
deemed abandoned and the vehicle shall escheat to the city.
      (3)   Pursuant to KRS 82.630, if the vehicle is judged suitable for use,
the city may obtain a certificate of registration and ownership from the County
Clerk pursuant to KRS 186.020 and either use the vehicle for governmental
purposes or sell the vehicle at public auction to the highest bidder. If the
vehicle is not suitable for use, it may be sold for its scrap or junk value.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 72.50 HEARING BOARD.
   Pursuant to KRS 82.600 there is hereby created a Hearing Board empowered to
conduct hearings pursuant to KRS 82.605 to 82.640 for violations of this
Chapter 72 . The Hearing Board shall be composed of the Police Chief. The
Police Chief may appoint one or more hearing officers to conduct hearings. Any
action of such hearing officer shall be deemed to be the action of the Hearing
Board.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-27-2019)
§ 72.51 HEARING TO CONTEST VIOLATION AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 82.620, any person cited for a parking violation under
this
Chapter 72  may contest the determination that a violation occurred by
requesting in writing a hearing before the Police Chief by filing such request
with the City Clerk within seven business days of the date of the citation.
Such hearing shall be held no later than 14 days from the date of receipt of
the request, unless prior to the hearing the person requesting such hearing
requests an extension of time not to exceed 14 days. No less than seven days
prior to the date set for the hearing, the Police Chief shall notify the
registered owner of the vehicle of the date, time and place of the hearing. Any
person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time and place set for
the hearing shall be deemed to have refused to pay the fine levied by the
citation, and shall have no further rights to a hearing before the Police
Chief.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 82.620, at the hearing, after consideration of the
evidence, the Police Chief shall determine whether a violation was committed.
Where it has not been established that violation was committed, an order
dismissing the citation shall be entered. Where it has been established that a
violation was committed, the Police Chief shall uphold the citation and order
the owner to pay the citation within seven days. A copy of such order shall be
furnished the owner. Any person ordered to pay the fine who fails to do so
within seven days shall be deemed to have refused to pay the fine levied by the
citation.
   (C)   The Police Chief may consider the parking citation and any other
written report made under oath by the officer who issued the citation in lieu
of the officer’s personal appearance at the hearing.
   (D)   An appeal from the Police Chief’s determination may be made to the
Kenton District Court within seven days of the Police Chief’s determination.
The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy of the
Police Chief’s order in the same manner as any civil action under the Rules of
Civil Procedure. The action shall be tried de novo and the burden shall be upon
the city to establish that a violation occurred. If the court finds that a
violation occurred, the owner shall be ordered to pay to the city all fines,
fees and penalties occurring as of the date of the judgment. If the court finds
that a violation did not occur, the city shall be ordered to dismiss the
citation and the plaintiff shall be authorized to recover his or her costs.
   (E)   The judgment of the District Court maybe appealed to the Circuit Court
in accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-27-2019)
§ 72.52 HEARING ON VALIDITY OF IMPOUNDMENT AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, the owner or other person entitled to
possession may challenge the validity of such impoundment and request in
writing a hearing before the Police Chief created under §
72.50 by filing such request with the City Clerk within seven business days of
the violation/impoundment. The hearing shall be conducted within ten business
days of the date of the request, unless the owner or other person entitled to
possession waives the limitation or the city shows good cause for such delay.
The city, or its contracted agents who have possession of the vehicle, shall
retain possession of the vehicle pending the hearing, unless the owner or other
person claiming right of possession posts a bond in an amount equal to the
fines and fees accrued as of the date of the hearing request, or $75, whichever
is less. If the owner or person claiming possession of the vehicle is unable to
pay the amount of the bond, the hearing shall be held within 72 hours of the
date the request for hearing is received, unless such person requests or agrees
to a continuance.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, no less than five days prior to the date
set for the hearing, the city shall notify the person requesting the hearing of
the date, time and place of the hearing. In the case of a hearing required to
be held within 72 hours of the date of the request as provided in division (A)
of this section, the person requesting the hearing shall be informed at the
time of his or her request, or as soon thereafter as is practicable, of the
date and time of the hearing.
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, any person who refuses or, except for good
cause, fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be
deemed to have conceded on his and the owner's behalf the validity of the
impoundment.
      (3)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, at the hearing, after consideration of the
evidence, the Police Chief shall determine whether the impoundment was valid
and reasonable. Where it has not been established that the impoundment was
justified, an order releasing the vehicle shall be entered. All fines and fees
paid or amounts posted as bond because of the impoundment of the vehicle shall
be returned. Where it has been established that the impoundment was justified,
the Police Chief shall uphold the impoundment and condition the release of the
vehicle upon payment of all fines and fees accruing thereto. If bond has been
posted as security for the release of the vehicle, said bond shall be forfeited
to the city. Any fines or fees in excess of the amount of the bond posted shall
be ordered to be paid by the owner of the vehicle to the city. The Police Chief
shall furnish the owner or person appearing on the owner's behalf with a copy
of its order.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, the Police Chief may consider a parking
citation and other written report made under oath by the issuing officer in
lieu of the officer's personal appearance at the hearing.
   (D)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, an appeal from the Police Chief’s
determination may be made to the Kenton District Court within seven days of the
determination. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a
copy of the Police Chief’s order in the same manner as any civil action. The
action shall be tried de novo and the burden shall be on the city to establish
that the impoundment was justified. If the court finds that the impoundment was
justified, the owner shall be ordered to pay all fees and fines accruing as of
the date of judgment. If the court finds that the impoundment was not
justified, the city shall be ordered to release the vehicle, if applicable, and
to return all fines and fees paid as a result of the impoundment and the
plaintiff shall be authorized to recover his or her costs.
   (E)   Pursuant to KRS 82.625, the judgment of the District Court may be
appealed to the Circuit Court in accordance with the Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-27-2019)
OTHER VEHICLES; BANNED VEHICLES
§ 72.60 VEHICLES OTHER THAN CARS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or place on any city
street, alley or public way any of the following: any boat, camper, motor home,
recreational vehicle of any kind, moving van, inoperative vehicle and
equipment, trailers of any kind including, but not limited to, boat trailers,
tractor trailers and utility trailers, heavy trucks and other such equipment,
dumpsters, storage containers and trucks or vehicles having more than six
wheels.
   (B)   The following exemptions shall apply:
      (1)   Trucks loading and unloading for business purposes;
      (2)   School busses loading and unloading;
      (3)   Those displaying a current, valid city permit to do so.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014)
§ 72.61 BANNED VEHICLE PARKING PERMIT.
   (A)   Pursuant to §
72.60, permits to park or place an otherwise banned vehicle on a city street,
may be requested at the Ludlow City Building.
   (B)   Permits for boats, campers, recreational vehicles and motor homes may
be issued for the purposes of loading and unloading only. If permits are
requested for two separate dates coinciding with the departure and return from
a trip, two permits, each for a 24 hour period may be issued. For the purpose
of the permit fee, this shall be considered one permit.
   (C)   Permits for dumpsters and temporary storage containers properly marked
with reflective devices may be issued for up to seven days.
   (D)   All other permits shall be for a 24 hour period.
   (E)   All permits must be conspicuously displayed on the vehicle while
parked on a city street.
   (F)   The city reserves the right to refuse to grant a parking exemption if,
in their opinion, the exception is not needed or may create a potential traffic
problem.
   (G)   A fee of $25 shall be charged for each permit issued.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014; Am. Ord. 2019-6, passed 6-27-2019)
DISABLED PARKING SPACE
§ 72.70 APPLICATION REQUIRED AND CRITERIA.
   (A)   A physically disabled person may hereafter submit applications to the
city administrative officer for a designated on-street disabled parking space.
   (B)   The applicant shall meet all of the following criteria to qualify for
a designated on-street disabled parking space:
      (1)   The applicant must provide proof of a disabled license plate,
pursuant to KRS 186.042; a disabled veteran license plate, pursuant to KRS
186.041; or a special disabled parking permit issued by the Kenton County
Clerk, pursuant to KRS 189.456;
      (2)   The applicant or a resident of the address must own an automobile
and possess a valid operators license;
      (3)   The applicant must provide a copy of the deed showing ownership of
the parcel of property where the on-street disabled parking space will abut or,
if the residence is rented, the applicant must provide written authorization
from the owner indicating there is no objection to the on-street disabled
parking space;
      (4)   The applicant's residence must lack available off-street parking,
if the applicant's residence has off-street parking and the applicant is
applying for an on-street handicap parking space to be installed the City
Administrative Officer may request consideration by the City Council to approve
the application on a case by case basis;
      (5)   The proposed on-street disabled parking space must not interfere
with public safety and other necessary public services; and
      (6)   A written statement by a physician stating medical justification
for disabled parking for applicant.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014)
§ 72.71 APPLICATION GUIDELINES.
   The following procedural guidelines shall be observed when making
application for an on-street disabled parking space.
   (A)   A completed application form shall be submitted to the office of the
city administrative officer. All supporting documentation shall be submitted at
the time of application.
   (B)   The application and supporting documentation will be reviewed by the
city administrative officer to ensure compliance with the criteria as contained
in §
72.70.
   (C)   A decision to approve or deny a request will be made, in writing, to
the applicant within 14 calendar days after receipt of application by the city.
   (D)   If an application for on-street disabled parking space is approved, an
application fee of $50 shall be submitted to the city before final processing
of an application will occur.
   (E)   The City Department of Public Works will install a disabled parking
sign and paint a portion of the curb abutting the applicant's address in order
to designate the on-street disabled parking space.
   (F)   The on-street disabled parking space designation shall expire on
December 31 of each year. The applicant shall be required to reapply to the
office of the city administrative officer within 30 days after the expiration
to provide proof that the on-street disabled parking designation remains
warranted. A reapplication fee of $10 shall be submitted at the time of
reapplication. If the reapplication fee is not paid within the designated 30
days, an additional late fee of $10 will be assessed. If the sign is taken off
the post due to a lack of reapplication fee being paid there will be a sign
reinstall fee of $25 and if the sign post and sign have been removed a new
application must be submitted as per this subchapter.
   (G)   Any disabled person having the proper disability designation on the
vehicle may utilize an on-street disabled parking space. Only vehicles without
the proper disabled parking designation will be ticketed.
   (H)   If the applicant of the on-street handicap parking space is no longer
a resident, or is deceased the sign and post will be removed.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014)
§ 72.72 ADDITIONAL ELIGIBILITY.
   Public buildings, businesses, churches, schools and places of assembly shall
also be eligible to apply for an on-street disabled parking space. The
applicant must comply with the guidelines in §
72.70 (B)(3) through (5). The requests shall be considered by the city
administrative officer on a case by case basis.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014)
§ 72.73 APPEAL.
   Any person or entity denied an on-street disabled parking space may appeal
the decision to the City Council within 30 days after receipt of written
notification from the city.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a parking citation in the city shall be deemed to
have committed a violation and shall be fined $30.
   (B)   As provided in KRS 82.605, any violation of this
Chapter 72 is classified as a civil offense.
   (C)   If the fine set forth in this section is not paid within the deadlines
set forth in the chart below, the fines shall be increased by the amounts
below:
 
Number of days from issuance fine is Fine amount in addition to base citation
not paid                             amount (non-cumulative)
10 days                              $10
30 days                              $50
45 days                              $75
60 days                              $100
Beyond 60 days, an additional fine of $1 per day shall be assessed up to a
maximum total fine of $300.
 
   (D)   Each provision of this chapter which is violated shall be considered a
separate fineable offense. If two or more provisions of this chapter are
violated, the fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same
citation. Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate offense
upon issuance of a separate citation.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 4-10-2014)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
(`96 Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person, except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(`96 Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as play streets by
the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful for
any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind, to
go on any roadway, except at a crosswalk.
(`96 Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle, shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
(`96 Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
(`96 Code, § 73.99)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   Traffic-signal intersections
   
III.   One-way streets
   
IV.   School crossings
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Persons operating motor vehicles shall stop at the following locations.
Street Intersection Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street         Intersection     Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Adela Street   Deverill Street            1983-1   3-9-1983
Adela Street   Howard Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Adela Street   Laurel Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Adela Street   Linden Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Adela Street   Stokesay Street            1983-1   3-9-1983
Alberta Street Highway Avenue             1983-1   3-9-1983
Alberta Street Montclair Avenue           1983-8   9-14-1983
Ash Street     Carneal Street             1983-1   3-9-1983
Ash Street     Locust Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Audrey Street  Montclair Avenue           1983-1   3-9-1983
Butler Street  Elm Street                 1983-1   3-9-1983
Carneal Street Oak Street                 1983-1   3-9-1983
 
Street Intersection Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Intersection        Direction  Ord. No. Date Passed
Church Street   Adela Street                   1983-1   3-9-1983
Church Street   Helen Street                   1983-1   3-9-1983
Church Street   Ludford Street                 1983-1   3-9-1983
Closson Court   Kenner Street                  1983-1   3-9-1983
Davies Street   Linden Street                  2000-10  11-9-2000
Davies Street   Oak Street                     1983-1   3-9-1983
Davies Street   Poplar Street       Northbound 1983-1   3-9-1983
Deverill Street Adela Street        Northbound 1983-1   3-9-1983
Deverill Street Laurel Street                  1983-1   3-9-1983
Euclid Street   Elm Street                     1983-1   3-9-1983
Forest Avenue   Butler Street                  1983-1   3-9-1983
Forest Avenue   Euclid Street                  1983-1   3-9-1983
Glenwood Avenue Butler Street                  1983-1   3-9-1983
Glenwood Avenue Euclid Street                  1983-1   3-9-1983
Hay Street      Carneal Street                 1983-1   3-9-1983
Hazen Street    Rivers Breeze Drive            1983-1   3-9-1983
Hazen Street    West Street                    1983-1   3-9-1983
Helen Street    Church Street                  1983-1   3-9-1983
Helen Street    Laurel Street                  1983-1   3-9-1983
Helen Street    Linden Street                  1983-1   3-9-1983
Helen Street    Oak Street                     1991-3   2-27-1990
Hooper Street   Kenner Street                  1983-1   3-9-1983
Howard Street   Adela Street                   1983-1   3-9-1983
Howard Street   Laurel Street                  1983-1   3-9-1983
Kenner Street   Linden Street                  1983-8   9-14-1983
Kenner Street   Oak Street                     1983-8   9-14-1983
Kenner Street   Poplar Street                  1983-8   9-14-1983
 
Street Intersection Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street         Intersection     Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Lagoon Street  Elm Street                 1983-8   9-14-1983
Lagoon Street  Oak Street                 1983-8   9-14-1983
Lake Street    Deverill Street            1983-1   3-9-1983
Lake Street    Laurel Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Lake Street    Park Avenue                1983-1   3-9-1983
Latta Street   Butler Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Latta Street   Euclid Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Laurel Street  Adela Street               1983-1   3-9-1983
Laurel Street  Deverill Street            1983-1   3-9-1983
Laurel Street  Helen Street               1983-1   3-9-1983
Laurel Street  Lake Street                1983-1   3-9-1983
Laurel Street  Ludford Street             1983-1   3-9-1983
Laurel Street  Park Avenue                1983-1   3-9-1983
Laurel Street  Stokesay Street            1983-1   3-9-1983
Linden Street  Adela Street               1983-1   3-9-1983
Linden Street  Davies Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Linden Street  Helen Street               1983-1   3-9-1983
Linden Street  Kenner Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Linden Street  Ludford Street             1983-1   3-9-1983
Locust Street  Ash Street                 1983-1   3-9-1983
Locust Street  Elm Street                 1983-1   3-9-1983
Louise Court   Highway Avenue             1983-1   3-9-1983
Louise Court   River Road                 1983-1   3-9-1983
Ludford Street Adela Street               1983-1   3-9-1983
Ludford Street Laurel Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Ludford Street Oak Street                 1983-1   3-9-1983
Mason Street   Montclair Avenue           1983-1   3-9-1983
 
Street Intersection Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street           Intersection     Direction  Ord. No.         Date Passed
Montclair Avenue Alberta Street              1983-1           3-9-1983
Montclair Avenue Audrey Street               1983-1           3-9-1983
Montclair Avenue Montrose Street             1983-1           3-9-1983
Montclair Avenue Post Place                  1983-1           3-9-1983
Montrose Street  Highway Avenue              1983-1           3-9-1983
Montrose Street  Montclair Avenue            1983-1           3-9-1983
Montrose Street  West Street                 1983-1           3-9-1983
Oak Street       Carneal Street              1983-1           3-9-1983
Oak Street       Davies Street               1983-1           3-9-1983
Oak Street       Helen Street                1991-3           2-27-1990
Oak Street       Kenner Street               1983-1           3-9-1983
Oak Street       Lagoon Street               1983-1           3-9-1983
Ohio Avenue      Carneal Street              1983-8           9-14-1983
Ohio Avenue      Euclid Street               1983-8           9-14-1983
Oldham Street    Victoria Street             1983-1           3-9-1983
Park Avenue      Lake Street                 1983-1           3-9-1983
Park Avenue      Laurel Street               1983-1           3-9-1983
Park Avenue      Oak Street                  1983-1           3-9-1983
Poplar Street    Davies Street               1983-1           3-9-1983
Poplar Street    Kenner Street               1983-1           3-9-1983
Post Place       West Street                 1983-1           3-9-1983
Ringgold Street  Somerset Avenue             1983-1           3-9-1983
Ringgold street  Victoria Street             1983-1           3-9-1983
River Road       Louise Court                1983-1           3-9-1983
River Road       West Street                 1983-1           3-9-1983
Rivers Breeze    Hazen Street     Northbound 2002-13; 2002-21 - -; 12-12-2002
Drive
 
Street Intersection Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Intersection    Direction Ord. No. Date Passed
Sandbank Road       Adela Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Somerset Avenue     Kenner Street             1983-1   3-9-1983
Stokesay Street     Adela Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Stokesay Street     Laurel Street             1983-1   3-9-1983
Stokesay Street     Oak Street                1983-1   3-9-1983
Traverse Street     Elm Street                1983-1   3-9-1983
Traverse Street     River Road                1983-1   3-9-1983
Rivers Breeze Drive Highway Avenue            1983-1   3-9-1983
Victoria Street     Adela Street              1983-1   3-9-1983
Victoria Street     Oldham Street             1983-1   3-9-1983
Victoria Street     Ringgold Street           1983-1   3-9-1983
West Street         Highway Avenue            1983-1   3-9-1983
West Street         Montrose Street           1983-1   3-9-1983
 
(`96 Code, Ch. 74, Schedule I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. TRAFFIC-SIGNAL INTERSECTIONS.
   The following streets shall be designated traffic signal intersections.
Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Elm Street and Adela Street    1983-1   3-9-1983
Elm Street and Carneal Street  1983-1   3-9-1983
Elm Street and Davies Street   1983-1   3-9-1983
Elm Street and Deverill Street 1983-1   3-9-1983
Elm Street and Helen Street    1983-1   3-9-1983
Elm Street and Kenner Street   1983-1   3-9-1983
Oak Street and Adela Street    1983-1   3-9-1983
Oak Street and Deverill Street 1983-1   3-9-1983
 
(`96 Code, Ch. 74, Schedule II) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Persons operating motor vehicles shall, when entering the following streets,
proceed in the direction indicated only.
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street          Location                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Alberta Street  From Montclair Avenue to Mason Street only 1983-1   3-9-1983
Arcade Alley    From Euclid Street to Carneal Street only  1983-1   3-9-1983
Davies Street   From Elm Street South to its intersection  2013-13  10-24-2013
                with Oak Street
                East from the public alley running north
Goodloe Alley   from Latta Street to Goodloe Alley to      1983-1   3-9-1983
                Euclid Street only
Hay Street      From Locust Street to Carneal Street only  1983-1   3-9-1983
Hazen Street    From Rivers Breeze Drive to West Street    1983-1   3-9-1983
                only
Lake Street     From Oak Street to Deverill Street only    1983-1   3-9-1983
Locust Street   From Elm Street South to its intersection  2008-11  11-13-2008
                with Walnut Alley
Mason Street    From Alberta Street to Montclair Street    1983-1   3-9-1983
                only
Oldham Street   From Elm Street to Victoria Street only    1983-1   3-9-1983
Poplar Street   From Kenner Street to Davies Street        1999-5   10-28-1999
Victoria Street From Oldham Street to Adela Street only    1983-1   3-9-1983
Walnut Alley    From Locust Street westerwardly to its     2008-12  11-13-2008
                intersection with Carneal Street
 
(`96 Code, Ch. 74, Schedule III) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. SCHOOL CROSSINGS.
   Crossing or school patrol guards shall be stationed, by the Chief of Police,
at those hours of the school day as he or she may require, at the following
intersection.
 
Intersection             Ord. No. Date Passed
Linden and Adela Streets 1966-1-3 2-9-1966
Oak and Adela Streets    1966-1-3 2-9-1966
Elm and Adela Streets    1966-1-3 2-9-1966
 
(`96 Code, Ch. 74, Schedule IV) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking zones
   
II.   Limited parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any
vehicle on the following streets.
Street Location Side(s) Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Location               Side(s)       Ord. No. Date Passed
                    North of Walnut Alley
Adela Street        and a distance of 24   East          1986-8   8-13-1986
                    feet
Alberta Street      Highway Avenue and     West          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Mason Street
Breezewood Court                          Both          2006-10  7-13-2006
Butler Street       Elm Street and Latta   East          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Street
Carneal Street      Elm Street and Walnut  West          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Alley
Carneal Street      Elm Street and Oak     East          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Street
                    A point 242 feet south
Carneal Street      of Ohio Avenue and     West          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    extending south 18
                    feet
                    South of Walnut Alley
Carneal Street      for a distance of 15   West          1997-12  11-13-1997
                    feet
                    Starting at the
                    intersection of Elm
Carneal Street      Street and Carneal     East, West    2010-9   8-12-10
                    Street 124 feet on the
                    east side and 95 feet
                    on the west side
Cedar Alley         Ludford Street and     Both          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Lake Street
Cedar Alley         Ludford Street and     North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Adela Street
Cedar Alley         Adela Street and       South         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Carneal Street
Church Alley                              Both          1983-1   3-9-1983
Closson Court                             North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Between Oak Street and
Davies Street       extending north for a  East          1996-12  3-28-1996
                    distance of 40 feet
                    Oak street and
Davies Street       extending north for a  West          1996-2   3-28-1996
                    distance of 57 feet
Davies Street       Oak Street and Elm     West          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Street
                    South of Walnut Alley
Davies Street       for a distance of 15   East and West 1997-12  11-13-1997
                    feet
                    Adela Street and
Deverill Street     extending north for a  East          1996-2   3-28-1996
                    distance of 94 feet
Deverill Street     Laurel Street and Elm  East          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Street
                    A distance of 30 feet
Deverill Street     north of the           West          1986-10  9-10-1986
                    intersection and Lake
                    Street
Eastview Court                            Both          2006-10  7-13-2006
Elm Street          Approximately 100 feet North         1989-20  10-12-1989
                    east of Carneal Street
Elm Street          Approximately 50 feet  North         1989-20  10-12-1989
                    west of Carneal Street
Elm Street          Approximately 100 feet South         1989-20  10-12-1989
                    west of Deverill
                    Approximately 22 feet
Elm Street          east of Deverill       South         1989-20  10-12-1989
                    Street
                    Approximately 100 feet
Elm Street          east of Deverill       North         1989-20  10-12-1989
                    Street
Elm Street          Approximately 22 feet  South         1989-20  10-12-1989
                    east of Helen Street
Elm Street          Butler Street and west North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    150 feet
Elm Street          Adela Street and west  North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    100 feet
Elm Street          Butler Street and east North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    160 feet
Elm Street          Carneal Street and     North         1994-7   5-26-1994
                    west 35 feet
                    A point 57 feet east
Elm Street          of Kenner extending 44 North         1994-7   5-26-1994
                    feet
                    West boundary line of
                    the playground and
Elm Street          west boundary line of  North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    the first lot line of
                    the first lot east of
                    the playground
Elm Street          Adela Street and east  North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    185 feet
                    Ten feet east and west
Elm Street          of the main doors of   North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Ludlow High School
Elm Street          Within 25 feet of      South         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Church Alley
                    A point beginning 65
Elm Street, except  feet west of Euclid    North         1983-1   3-9-1983
taxi-cabs           Avenue and extending
                    west 45 feet
                    A point on the south
                    side beginning at the
Elm Street, except  east boundary of 227
official vehicles   Elm Street and         South         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    extending west to the
                    west boundary of 233
                    Elm Street
Elm Street          In front of the U.S.   North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Post Office
                    Starting at the
                    intersection of Elm
                    Street and Carneal
Elm Street          Street going west 180  North, South  2010-10  10-14-2010
                    feet on the north and
                    180 feet on the south
                    side
                    Beginning at the
                    southeast corner of
Elm Street          Elm Street and Adela   South         2010-4   8-12-2010
                    extending a distance
                    of 252 feet east on
                    Elm Street
Euclid Street       Arcade Alley and 15    East          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    feet south
Euclid Street       Latta Street and 15    West          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    feet north
Forest Street       Butler Street and      North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Euclid Street
Goodloe Alley                             Both          1983-1   3-9-1983
Harris Alley        Helen Street and Adela South         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Street
Harris Alley        Davies Street and      South         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Kenner Street
Harris Alley        Hauck Alley and Helen  Both          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Street
Harris Alley        Adela Street and       Both          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Kenner Street
Hauck Alley                               Both          1983-1   3-9-1983
Hay Street                                North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    The railroad property
Highway Avenue      access road east and   South         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    the west boundary line
                    of 127 Highway
Highway Avenue      Alberta Street and     North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    west 200 feet
Highway Avenue      Montrose Street and    North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    west 200 feet
                    Louise Court and west
Highway Avenue      100 feet and east 150  North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    feet
Highway Avenue      Within 30 feet of the  Both          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    railroad overpass
                    A point 60 feet west
                    of the pedestrian
Highway Avenue      extension of Audrey    Both          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Street and west 25
                    feet
Kenner Street       Oak Street and Elm     West          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Street
Lake Street         Oak Street and Laurel  West          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Street
                    Commencing 25 feet
                    south at the
Lake Street         intersection with Oak  West          2004-11  11-11-2004
                    Street and proceeding
                    175 feet south
Latta Street                              North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    From Elm Street South
Locust Street       to its intersection    West          2009-1   2-12-2009
                    with Walnut Alley
Louise Court                              West          1983-1   3-9-1983
Louise Court        Highway Avenue and     East          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Post place
Mason Street                              South         1983-1   3-9-1983
Montclair Street    Number 124 north and   East          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Post Place
Montrose Street     Highway Avenue and     North         l983-1   3-9-1983
                    Montclair Street
                    East of Deverill
Oak Street          Street for a distance  North         1997-12  11-13-1997
                    of 35 feet
Oak Street, except  A point directly
emergency vehicles  opposite the east
and members of the  boundary line of the   South         l983-1   3-9-1983
Volunteer Fire      city building property
Department          west and Davies Street
                    Within 25 feet of the
Oak Street          Oak Street Bridge      Both          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    crossing Pleasant Run
                    Creek
                    From its intersection
                    with Adela beginning
Oak Street          from the western edge  North         2003-5   1-23-2003
                    of the crosswalk and
                    proceeding 30 feet
                    westerly
                    From its intersection
                    with Adela beginning
                    95 feet from the
                   western edge of the    North         2003-5   1-23-2003
                    crosswalk and
                    proceeding westerly
                    for 10 feet
Oldham Street                             West          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Intersection with Oak
Park Avenue         Street south for 30    East          2002-8   6-13-2002
                    feet
Pinnacle Way                              Both          2006-10  7-13-2006
Poplar Street                             South         1983-1   3-9-1983
Post Place          Louise Court and West  North         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Street
Post Place          Louise Court and       East          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Johnson Alley
Post Place          Montclair Street and   East          1983-1   3-9-1983
                    West Street
                    North of Victoria
Ringgold Street     Street for a distance  West          1997-12  11-13-1997
                    of 135 feet
Riverbend Drive                           Both          2006-10  7-13-2006
Riverbreeze Drive                         Both          2006-10  7-13-2006
Rivers Breeze Drive                       Both          2001-12  7-12-2001
Skyview Court                             Both          2006-10  7-13-2006
Southwind Lane                            Both          2006-10  7-13-2006
Sunrise Court                             Both          2006-10  7-13-2006
Teed Alley                                Both          1983-1   3-9-1983
Unnamed Alley       Latta Street and       South         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Goodloe Alley
Victoria Street                           North         1983-1   3-9-1983
Walnut Alley                              South         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Davies Street and
Walnut Alley        extending eastwardly   North         1984-5   12-12-1984
                    for a distance of 90
                    feet
West Street         Post Place and         South         1983-1   3-9-1983
                    Montrose Street
Willow Alley                              South         1983-1   3-9-1983
 
(`96 Code, Ch. 75, Schedule I)
   (B)   Parking shall be prohibited on or in crosswalks.
(Ord. 2002-18, passed 8-22-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle
for more than the specified time on the following streets.
Street Location Side(s) Time Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Street        Location        Side(s)     Time Limit       Ord. No. Date Passed
              Northeast
              corner of Adela
Adela Street  and Walnut      East        Two hours        1983-1   3-9-1983
              Alley and
              running 100
              feet south
Adela Street  Northeast                  30 minutes       2004-1   2-12-2004
              corner
              North of Oak                5 minutes drop
              Street                      off zone for
              beginning 30                school children
              feet from the               from 7:50 a.m.
Adela Street  intersection    West        until 8:15 a.m.  2005-5   4-28-2005
              with Oak Street             Monday through
              and continuing              Friday while
              75 feet north               school is in
                                          session
                                          Between 7:30
Adela Street  Oak Street and  West        a.m. through 4:  1983-1   3-9-1983
              Elm Street                  00 p.m. on
                                          school days only
              Two parking                 9:00 a.m.
Adela Street  spaces on the   North- east through 6:00     2007-1   2-22-2007
              northeast                   p.m.
              corner
                                          7:00 a.m. to 5:
              A point                     00 p.m., Monday
              beginning 210               through Friday
Ash Street    feet east of    North       (from 5:00 p.m.  1996-2   3-28-1996
              Locust Street               to 7:00 a.m.
              and extending               parking by the
              48 feet                     public is
                                          permitted
              A point 239
              feet east of
Cedar Alley   Adela Street    North       Monday           1994-10  8-25-1994
              extending east
              68 feet
              A point 40 feet
Davies Street north from the  East        15 minutes       1983-1   3-9-1983
              intersection
              with Oak Street
              Carneal Street              Two hours,
Elm Street    and Locust      South       between 6:00     1983-1   3-9-1983
              Street                      a.m. and 6:00
                                          p.m.
                                          Between 4:00
Elm Street    A point 75 feet North       p.m. and 7:00    1989-20  10-12-1989
              east of Kenner              p.m., Monday
                                          through Friday
Elm Street    In front of the South       15 minutes       2001-7   6-28-2001
              city building
              Beginning 41
              feet from the               30 minutes;
Helen Street  intersection    East        between 9:00     2024-5   8-29-2024
              with Elm Street             a.m. and 6:00
              and continuing              p.m.
              20 feet south
              Beginning 62
              feet from the               30 minutes;
Helen Street  intersection    East        between 9:00     2024-5   8-29-2024
              with Elm Street             a.m. and 6:00
              and continuing              p.m.
              20 feet south
              A point 50 feet
Kenner Street north from the  East        15 minutes       2005-4   4-14-2005
              intersection
              with Elm Street
              A point 75 feet
              east of
Laurel Street Deverill Street North       15 minutes       1983-1   3-9-1983
              and extending
              east 60 feet
              Adela Street                Between 7:30
Oak Street    and extending   North       a.m. and 4:00    1983-1   3-9-1983
              westwardly 30               p.m. on school
              feet                        days only
              524 Oak Street              Between 7:00
              extending 75                a.m. and 4:00
Oak Street    feet from       North       p.m. during the  1993-1   1-15-1993
              school to                   school week
              gymnasium doors
              Immediately
Oak Street    adjacent to 602            15 minutes       2001-19  11-8-2001
              Oak Street
              Beginning at a
              point 30 feet
              from the                    Maximum period
              western edge of             is 5 minutes;
              the crosswalk               between 7:30
              running north               a.m. to 8:30
Oak Street    to south from   North       a.m. and 2:30    2003-4   1-23-2003
              the northwest               p.m. to 3:30
              corner for Oak              p.m., Monday
              and Adela and               through Friday,
              continuing 55               when school is
              feet in a                   in session*
              westerly
              direction
              Beginning at a
              point 95 feet
              from the                    Maximum period
              western edge of             is 5 minutes;
              the crosswalk               between 7:30
              running north               a.m. to 8:30
Oak Street    to south from   North       a.m. and 2:30    2003-4   1-23-2003
              the northwest               p.m. to 3:30
              corner of Oak               p.m., Monday
              and Adela and               through Friday,
              continuing 55               when school is
              feet in a                   in session*
              westerly
              direction
Street        Location        Side(s)                      Ord. No. Date Passed
              Beginning at a
              point 210 feet
              from th western
              edge of the
              crosswalk                   5:30 a.m. to 2:
              running north               30 p.m., Monday
Oak Street    to south from   North       through Friday,  2003-4   1-23-2003
              the northwest               when school is
              corner of Oak               in session**
              and Adela and
              continuing 90
              feet in a
              westerly
              direction
              Beginning 150
              feet from the
              western edge of
              the crosswalk
              running north
Oak Street    to south from   North                       2003-4   1-23-2003
              the northwest
              corner of Oak
              and Adela and
              continuing for
              60 feet
              westerly***
              Loading zone
              area created:
              30 feet south               8:00 a.m.
              of its                      through 4:00
Park Avenue   intersection    East        p.m. Monday      2002-9   6-13-2002
              with Oak Street             through Saturday
              and then for a
              distance of 48
              feet southerly
*Note: Limited parking is for the purpose only of dropping and picking up
students when school is in session. Parking shall be permitted at all other
times.
**Note: This zone shall be designated as a school loading zone only between the
hours designated. Parking shall be permitted at all other times.
***Note: This area designated for handicap parking only.
 
(`96 Code, Ch. 75, Schedule II) (Am. Ord. 2024-5, passed 8-29-2024) Penalty,
see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
91.   NUISANCES
         
92.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
         
93.   LITTERING
         
94.   NOISE REGULATIONS
         
95.   ANIMALS
         
96.   PARKS
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Crosswalks; locations
   
90.03   Gutters
   
90.04   Damaging street lamps
   
90.05   Stretching wires over public streets and alleys
   
90.06   Duties of City Engineer
Excavations and Construction
   
90.20   Street, driveway and sidewalk maintenance
   
90.21   Application and cash deposit
   
90.22   Restoration of pavement
   
90.23   Barriers around excavations
   
90.24   Warning lights
   
90.25   Sidewalk construction
   
90.26   Duty of owner to repair; notice
   
90.27   Owner to pay cost of repairs; penalty for non-payment
   
90.28   Expansion joints between sidewalks and abutting driveways and curbs
required
Obstructions
   
90.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
90.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
90.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
90.43   Removal of ice and snow
   
90.44   Encumbering sidewalks
Road and Bridge Projects
   
90.55   Public meeting required
   
90.56   Notice requirements
   
90.57   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
90.58   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
90.59   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
90.60   Exemptions from meeting requirement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Ludlow, Kentucky, acting by and through its City Council,
or its properly authorized agents, these agents acting within the scope of the
particular duties entrusted to them.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer or his or her properly authorized agent.
(`96 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 1964-6-1, passed 6-17-1964)
§ 90.02 CROSSWALKS; LOCATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be installed and maintained by the city at the
intersection of East Oak Street, West Oak Street and Adela Avenue, the
following crosswalks:
      (1)   Running in a general north and south direction between the
southeast corner of East Oak and Adela Avenue to the northeast corner of same
intersection;
      (2)   Running in a general east and west direction between the northwest
corner of West Oak and Adela Avenue, between parallel lines to east side of
Adela Avenue;
      (3)   Running in a general north and south direction between the
northwest corner of West Oak Street and Adela Avenue to the southwest corner of
the same intersection; and
      (4)   Running in a general east and west direction between the southeast
corner of East Oak and Adela Avenue, between parallel lines to west side of
Adela Avenue.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be a crosswalk maintained on Elm Street near the
intersection of Helen Street, in the following manner: one crosswalk shall be
six feet in width and shall run from curb to curb on Elm Street, starting at
the southeast corner of the intersection and running east a distance of six
feet.
      (2)   Another crosswalk, six feet in width, shall be maintained running
from curb to curb on Elm Street, starting at the southwest corner of the
intersection and running west a distance of six feet in width.
(Ord. 1958-5, passed 6-12-1958)
   (C)   (1)   There shall be maintained by the city crosswalks on the Ludlow
Highway, west of the intersection of Ludlow Highway and Montrose Streets and on
Elm Street, east of the intersection of Elm and Deverill Streets.
      (2)   These crosswalks shall be six feet in width and shall run from curb
to curb.
(Ord. 1088, passed 12-7-1951)
   (D)   (1)   These crosswalks shall be six feet in width and shall run from
curb to curb.
      (2)   This width shall be bounded by either white or yellow paint and
shall clearly be marked crosswalk.
(`96 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 1956-10-1, passed 10-18-1956) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 GUTTERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed,
in any manner whatsoever in any gutter in the city any obstruction that may
impede the passage of water flowing in the gutter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any slop, water, drainage
or sewerage of any nature whatsoever to run or flow over any sidewalk in the
city, or to allow any slop, water, drainage or sewerage to flow into any open
gutter upon the sidewalks in the city where it thereby creates a nuisance.
(`96 Code, § 91.04) (Ord. 431, passed 10-18-1900) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 DAMAGING STREET LAMPS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure in any way or manner the
public lamps or lamp posts of the city, either by attaching any animal thereto;
by throwing any stones or other missiles thereat; or in any way by any means
whereby they may be damaged or the city may be deprived of the proper use of
these lamp posts.
(`96 Code, § 91.05) (Ord. 71, passed 5-1-1879) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 STRETCHING WIRES OVER PUBLIC STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, without the
consent of the City Council being first obtained, to stretch any wires across
any sidewalk, street, alley or public thoroughfare in the city.
(`96 Code, § 91.06) (Ord. 671, passed 4-30-1925) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DUTIES OF CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   All work done on the repair or replacement of sidewalks, crosswalks or
driveways, either by the owner, occupant or party in interest, or by and in
behalf of the city, shall be performed to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer, who shall, in all cases, determine the amount, quality, acceptability
and fitness of the several kinds of work and materials necessary for repair or
replacement.
   (B)   Before any owner, occupant or party in interest, or any contractor
employed by the owner, occupant or party in interest shall undertake to repair
or replace any sidewalk, crosswalk or driveway under §§
90.26 and
90.27, it shall be necessary for the owner, occupant, party or contractor to
receive, from the Engineer, the width required for the sidewalk, the
specification and materials to be used and the grade to be established.
(`96 Code, § 91.07) (Ord. 1964-6-1, passed 6-17-1964) Penalty, see §
90.99
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 90.20 STREET, DRIVEWAY AND SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   Application and map. Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 85.140,
authority to establish street regulations, whenever it becomes necessary to
open any of the streets of the city through excavating or digging, the person
desiring to do the work shall make application to the City Clerk for permission
to do so, and shall accompany the application with a map or diagram showing the
place where the street is to be opened, the width and depth of the excavation,
the estimated length of time the street is to remain open, and the name of the
person whose property is to benefit by reason of the opening excavation.
      (2)   Restoration of street. Every person making application for
permission to open or excavate any street in the city shall agree to restore
the street to the same condition that it was prior to the opening or
excavation, to keep this portion of the street in repair for a period of one
year after the opening or excavation, and to assume liability for any injuries
sustained by any person, or damages to any property, caused by reason of the
opening or excavation.
      (3)   Bond required.
         (a)   Every application shall be accompanied by a bond to the city in
the amount of $10,000 signed by the applicant and a surety company registered
under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
         (b)   This bond shall specify that in the event the city is sued
because of injuries sustained, or property damaged by reason of such
excavation, the principal and surety in the bond will, to the extent of
$10,000, pay any judgment obtained by the claimant, and will pay the court cost
and attorneys’ fees incurred by the city.
   (B)   Driveways; storm drainage pipes under driveways.
      (1)   The minimum requirements for storm drainage entrance pipes under
driveways connecting with the various streets shall meet the Kenton County
Subdivision Regulations. No entrance pipe shall have an inside diameter of less
than 12 inches.
      (2)   Before storm drainage entrance pipes are placed under any driveway,
a permit shall be obtained from the city. Such work shall proceed under the
direction of the City Engineer. At the discretion of the City Council, any
entrance pipe installed contrary to the provisions of this section may be
ordered removed at the cost of the owner of the abutting property.
   (C)   Street use; use of heavy equipment. Pursuant to KRS 189.190 and KRS
189.221 and 189.222:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate
any bulldozer or other vehicle equipped with metal tracks or treads or any
vehicle equipped with metal wheels fitted with lugs on the streets of the city
so that the tracks, treads, or wheels with lugs are in contact with pavement of
the streets.
      (2)   Any person who violates this division shall be fined not less than
$100 or more than $500 for each conviction. Each incident of violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Littering. Pursuant to KRS 224.905 through KRS 244.970:
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall litter or cause to be placed
on any city street or public way of the city any litter, yard waste, dirt,
trash, rubbish, refuse, mud, soil, or similar debris or allow or permit the
above to remain on any city street or public way of the city for more than 12
hours without removing it and cleaning and clearing the street or public way so
that it is restored to its original condition prior to the littering.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation convicted of violating this section
shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day that the
violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 2003-8; passed 6-26-2003)
§ 90.21 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and
such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(`96 Code, § 91.21)
§ 90.22 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without notice to
make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
90.20 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
(`96 Code, § 91.22)
§ 90.23 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(`96 Code, § 91.23) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season, shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation and, if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(`96 Code, § 91.24) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall for the faithful performance of the work. The Mayor, if authorized by
City Council, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
(`96 Code, § 91.25)
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
§ 90.26 DUTY OF OWNER TO REPAIR; NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever any public sidewalk, crosswalk or driveway across the
sidewalk within the city shall become out of repair or require placement, the
Building/Zoning Administrator shall report this need of repair or replacement
to the City Council. Thereupon, the city, acting by and through its City Clerk-
Treasurer, with Council so ordering the Clerk-Treasurer, shall give to the
owner or occupant, or other party in interest thereto, of the premises in front
of, adjacent to or abutting the public sidewalk, crosswalk or driveway is
located, written notice to repair or replace the same within 30 days.
   (B)   In default thereof, the owner, occupant or party in interest shall be
deemed to be permitting or suffering a public nuisance, and the permitting or
sufferance of that public nuisance is declared to be unlawful. Whereupon, it
shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to cite that owner, occupant or party
in interest for violation of this section.
   (C)   Service of notice shall be made by registered or certified mail to the
last known address appearing on the assessment rolls of the county or service
may be made personally upon the owner, occupant or party in interest or posted
in a conspicuous place upon the premises abutting the sidewalk in need of
repair. This notice shall require that all work be done in accordance with
specifications supplied by the Building/Zoning Administrator.
(`96 Code, § 91.26) (Ord. 1964-6-1, passed 6-17-1964)
   (D)   The city will match any property owner’s money, dollar for dollar, up
to 20% of the total cost, not to exceed $200, for the repair and/or replacement
of sidewalks under the following terms and conditions:
      (1)   The property must located in the city of Ludlow limits.
      (2)   The property owner, or his or her designee, must make the
application to the city.
      (3)   The building inspector must inspect the sidewalk to be repaired and
to deem whether the repairs are necessary.
      (4)   Only sidewalks adjacent to the street will be considered for the
matching funds program.
      (5)   The property owner is responsible for contracting the repairs and
seeing that the contractor has all the proper permits.
      (6)   The property owner may elect to do the work themselves, however,
payment will relate to materials only in such work. (Receipts required)
      (7)   A final inspection must be done by the building inspector to assure
that proper building code restrictions and city regulations have been met.
      (8)   The city of Ludlow is exempt from any liability regarding such
repairs.
(Res. 2002-19, passed 4-25-2002)
§ 90.27 OWNER TO PAY COST OF REPAIRS; PENALTY FOR NON-PAYMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Should any person so notified fail to repair or replace, as
requested, that sidewalk, crosswalk or driveway within the time required, it
shall be the duty of the City Engineer and the city, acting through the City
Council, to so order him or her to repair or reconstruct that sidewalk,
crosswalk or driveway.
      (2)   The cost, expense and penalties involved in the repair when made by
the city shall be charged to the defaulting owner, occupant or party in
interest. Accordingly, within ten days after the completion of the repair by
the city, the City Engineer shall advise the City Clerk-Treasurer in writing as
to the total cost of the work; and the City Clerk-Treasurer shall thereupon
render to the owner, occupant or party in interest an itemized statement of the
repair costs, including a fee of $1.50 for the services of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   The owner, occupant or party in interest shall have a period of 30
days within which to pay the bill after receipt of same from the City Clerk-
Treasurer. In event of non-payment within that period, a 15% penalty shall be
added to the itemized bill, and interest shall accrue to the amount of the
bill, exclusive of penalty, at the rate of 6% per year until paid; and suit may
be instituted by the City Attorney in any court of competent jurisdiction for
the recovery of all amounts so owed.
(`96 Code, § 91.27) (Ord. 1964-6-1, passed 6-17-1964)
§ 90.28 EXPANSION JOINTS BETWEEN SIDEWALKS AND ABUTTING DRIVEWAYS AND CURBS
REQUIRED.
   When any person shall construct any walk or driveway in any of the streets
of the city, which walk or driveway abuts any curb in the street, that person
shall place or cause to be placed an expansion joint of tar, felt based or
other suitable material of not less than one inch in thickness between the walk
or driveway and the curb.
(`96 Code, § 91.28) (Ord. 805, passed 11-6-1930) Penalty, see §
90.99
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 90.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
way within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot of
land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 93
§ 90.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after
the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.44 ENCUMBERING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to encumber
the sidewalks of the city in any manner whatsoever, either as set out in
divisions (B) and (C) hereof, or otherwise, if the owner of the premises
abutting upon the sidewalk could or can make the improvements or repairs set
out in divisions (B) and (C) hereof on his or her own property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to encumber
the sidewalks of the city by placing steps on or over any sidewalk in the city
for a distance exceeding two feet from the building abutting on the sidewalk.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
build or place in or upon any sidewalks in the city an cellar or trap doors
unless the same shall be built with the grade of the sidewalk and on a level
therewith.
      (2)   The cellar or trap doors shall be corrugated or made rough, so that
is shall be safe to walk upon.
(`96 Code, § 91.44) (Ord. 422, passed 5-17-1900) Penalty, see §
90.99
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 90.55 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 90.56 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 90.57 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 90.58 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting, as provided herein,
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 90.59 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
if all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the meeting,
shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 90.60 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
(`96 Code, § 91.99)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Generally
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Public nuisances prohibited
   
91.04   Actions constituting public nuisances
   
91.05   Dangerous buildings
   
91.06   Graffiti
   
91.07   Junked or wrecked vehicles
   
91.08   Rubbish or excessive growth
   
91.09   Powers and duties of the Code Enforcement Officer; record keeping;
inspection
   
91.10   Establishment of Code Enforcement Board; powers
   
91.11   Appeals of Code Enforcement Board decision; final judgment
   
91.12   Lien; recording; fines, charges and fees
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Purpose. The city’s nuisance chapter (hereinafter "chapter") is
designed to protect the public health, safety, and welfare by establishing
pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 what constitutes a nuisance on residential
and non-residential properties with and without structures, and prohibiting
public nuisances that substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the public or
unlawfully or substantially interfere with the use and enjoyment of private or
public property, and fixing the responsibilities of owners, operators, and
occupants of all residential and non-residential structures, and premises.
   (B)   Intent. This chapter shall be construed liberally and justly to insure
public health, safety, and welfare insofar as the public is effected by the
continued use and maintenance of structures and premises in violation of this
chapter. However, the provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to
prevent the enforcement of other applicable ordinances or regulations. The
provisions of KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 shall apply to the processes and
procedures for enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Application of other codes. Any repairs, alterations, or changes to a
structure, which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this
chapter, shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of any
other existing codes used and enforced by the city, including but not limited
to the adopted Property Maintenance Code, the Kentucky Building Code, Fire
Code, and Electrical Code.
   (D)   Conflict with other ordinances or regulations. In any case where a
provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any existing code,
ordinance, or regulation of the city, the provision that establishes the
highest standard shall apply, so long as the penalty for violation of that
provision is civil in nature. If the penalty of the provision establishing the
highest standard is not civil in nature, then this chapter shall be the
prevailing authority, with the exception of the Kentucky Building Code, Fire
Code, and Electrical Code, which shall control over conflicting city
ordinances.
   (E)   Workmanship. All repairs, maintenance, alterations, or installations
that are required for compliance with this chapter shall be executed and
installed in a workmanlike manner.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning of the
word being defined:
   ABANDON. To give up or relinquish one's interest or right in property.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city's/unincorporated Kenton County's necessary and
reasonable costs for and associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized
entry to, or demolishing all or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking
any other action with regard to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a
violation and to maintain and preserve the public health, safety and welfare in
accordance with any city ordinance.
   ANYBODY. Any human being, or any organization or combination thereof, in the
form of a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture,
unincorporated association or otherwise.
   ALTER or ALTERATION. Any change or modification in the construction or
occupancy of a building or structure.
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER. Any aerosol container, regardless of the material
from which it is made, that is adopted or made for the purpose of spraying
paint capable of defacing property.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Chairman of the Kenton County Joint Code
Enforcement Board, or any of his or her assistants, staff, employees, or
assigns.
   ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE. Shall have the same meaning provided therefor in KRS
189.010, which is a motor vehicle is used for recreational off-road use.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
   BANNER SIGN. Any commercial sign composed of any pliable plastic or cloth,
without a rigid supporting frame.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building or structure located partly underground,
but having less than one-half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   BUILDING. Any structure, constructed on, below, or above ground, for the
support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of
any kind. The term BUILDING shall be construed as if followed by the words, "or
any part thereof."
   BUILDING CODE. The Kentucky Building Code, as adopted by the City of Ludlow
Ordinance 1991-5 of the City of Ludlow Code of Ordinances.
   CART. Any cart, wagon, or similar device, regardless of means of propulsion,
made of wire, metal, wood or other material, such as is generally provided by
merchants for carting or carrying merchandise or food stuffs from said
merchants' store or buildings to automobiles or other places without said
merchants' building or store.
   CITY. The City of Ludlow, Kenton, Kentucky, including any departments,
divisions, boards, or agencies thereof.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839, created by an interlocal agreement between this city and other cities
together with the County Fiscal Court.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. As defined in KRS 65.8801 et seq. and any employee
of Planning and Development Services of Kenton County charged with the
enforcement of this chapter as a Code Enforcement/Citation Officer, exclusive
of clerical and administrative staff, as well as police and fire safety
officers.
   CONTROL. To exercise restraint or direction over.
   CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any building or premises where law enforcement officers
have, on more than one occasion in the preceding 12-month period, cited or
arrested persons for crimes involving prostitution, controlled substances,
disorderly conduct or gambling, or have executed search warrants for crimes
involving prostitution, controlled substances, disorderly conduct or gambling.
   DELIVER. Any manner of delivery that conforms to the federal and state
constitutional requirements for procedural due process.
   DISORDERLY MANNER. Any manner that unreasonably causes inconvenience,
annoyance or alarm to any member of the public or anybody using any other lot
or parcel of real estate within or outside of the city, or wantonly creates a
risk thereof.
   DWELLING. Any building that is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating by human occupants, whether or not
such building is occupied or vacant, provided that temporary housing as
hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling. The term DWELLING
shall be construed as if followed by the words, "or any part thereof."
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities that are used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating, whether or not such unit is
occupied or vacant. The term DWELLING UNIT shall be construed as if followed by
the words, "or any part thereof."
   ELECTRICAL CODE. The Kentucky Building Code, as adopted by the city in
Chapter 110.
   EVERYBODY. Every human being and every organization or combination thereof.
In the form of a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint
venture, unincorporated association or otherwise.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven days as provided in this chapter; or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in this chapter.
   FIRE CODE. The Kentucky Building Code, as adopted by the City of Ludlow in
Ordinance 1991-5 of the City of Ludlow Code of Ordinances.
   FOWL. Any hen, rooster, chicken, duck, turkey, pheasant or any of several
other, usually gallinaceous birds.
   GARBAGE The organic, animal, and vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food or food products. Other
general organic materials such as paper and cardboard are also garbage.
   GRAFFITI. Any inscription, drawing or design that is scratched, painted,
sprayed or placed on any surface of any structure without the consent or
authority of the owner thereof, and which is within the view from any public
property or right-of-way.
   HEARING BOARD. The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board as established
by ordinance and empowered to conduct hearings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is: unlicensed as required by
KRS 186.020; is in a state of disrepair, caused by wreckage to the vehicle or
disassembly; mechanically inoperable; or legally inoperable on public streets
and highways.
   LIVESTOCK. Animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, camelide
and cervid species, including, without limitation, horses, cattle, sheep, swine
and goats.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The City of Ludlow, Kenton, Kentucky.
   MARKER PEN. Any indelible marker or similar implement with a writing tip
exceeding four millimeters in width that contains solution that cannot be
removed with water after it dries.
   NUISANCE CODE. This chapter adopted by the city pursuant to KRS 65.8801 et
seq. and incorporated herein by reference the provisions of the International
Property Maintenance Code, published by the International Code Council Inc. as
amended from time to time and all amendments are hereby incorporated by
reference into this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, or portion of a
building.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body and the Fiscal Court which embodies all or part of an
ordinance.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
   OVERGROWN GRASS. Any grass, weeds or vegetation in excess of eight (8)
inches in length, except in agricultural zones.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and any person, group of
persons, company, association, or corporation in whose name tax bills on the
property are submitted. OWNER also means a person, association, corporation,
partnership, or other legal entity having a legal or equitable title in real
property. It shall also mean any person who, alone or jointly or severally with
others:
      (1)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling unit, as owner,
executor, executrix, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate of the
owner, mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, lessee, or other
person, firm, or corporation in control of a building, or their duly authorized
agents. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to
comply with the provisions of this chapter, and of rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner. It
is his or her responsibility to notify the actual owner of the reported
infractions of these regulations pertaining to the property.
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of automobiles.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, limited Liability Company,
association, or partnership.
   PLUMBING. The practice, materials, and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension, and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances, and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following: sanitary drainage or
storm draining facilities, the venting system, and the public or private water
supply systems, within or adjacent to any building, structure, or conveyance;
also the practice and materials used in the installation, maintenance,
extension, or alteration of storm water, liquid waste, or sewerage, and water-
supply systems of any premises to their connection with any point of public
disposal or other acceptable terminal.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot, or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon.
   PUBLIC AREA. Unoccupied open space that is not privately owned, including
but not limited to publicly owned property, sidewalks, streets, and rights-of-
way.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Has the same meaning provided for them in KRS 227.550
(11).
   REQUIRED. Required by some provision of this chapter or other law or
regulation adopted by the city.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage.
The term shall include but not be limited to abandoned, discarded, or unused
objects placed outside of a structure, such as furniture, stoves,
refrigerators, freezers, washers, dryers, clothes, food, cans, containers,
paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, synthetic
materials, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metal, mineral matter,
glass crockery and dust. The term shall also include the residue from the
burning of wood, coal, coke, synthetic material, or other combustible material.
   STAGNANT WATER. A body of water without wind, waves, fish, or frogs,
including but not limited to stagnant water in natural ponds, ornamental ponds,
old tires, poorly maintained pools, rain barrels, clogged gutters, and other
places where standing water may collect.
   STAIRWAY. One or more flight of stairs and the necessary landings and
platforms connecting them, to form a continuous and uninterrupted passage from
one story to another in a building or structure.
   STRUCTURE. An edifice, cellar, building of any kind, or any piece of work
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner. The term structure shall be construed as if followed by the words, "or
any part thereof."
   YARD. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with building extending along
the entire length of a street, or rear or interior lot line. This term also
applies to an adjoining unoccupied parcel or lot that is used by a principal
occupied lot as a yard.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall act, fail to act, behave, erect, contrive, cause, continue,
maintain in any manner, or permit to exist any public nuisance within the city.
Repeated violation of the terms of the International Property Maintenance Code,
as amended, shall constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.04 ACTIONS CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The following acts, action, inaction, omissions, behavior, or conditions
shall constitute a public nuisance:
   (A)   Any act, thing, occupation, condition, use of property, non-use of
property, misuse of property that continues for a length of time so as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose or safety of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life, peaceful
uninterrupted existence, or in the use of their property;
      (3)   Offend the public morals or decency; and
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water, or other public way, including but not limited to sidewalks.
   (B)   To allow any physical condition, use, or occupancy of any premises or
its appurtenances be an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, standing pools of water or liquid,
basements, excavations, retaining walls, and unsafe fences, accessible to
children or other persons, on the premises. No person shall abandon or leave
unattended in any place accessible to children any refrigerator, freezer, ice
chest, ice box, or similar airtight box or container, which has a locking
device inoperable from within, without first unhinging and removing the door or
lid thereof or detaching the locking device from the door or lid. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to prohibit the normal use of any refrigerator,
ice box, freezer, or similar appliance for the storage of food in any home or
buildings appurtenant thereto.
   (C)   For any premises to have unsanitary, defective, or insufficient
sewerage or plumbing facilities.
   (D)   To keep or maintain any premises designated by a Code Enforcement
Officer as unsafe or unfit for human habitation.
   (E)   For any premises to present an imminent fire hazard, be in imminent
danger of collapse, or to be unsafe or unsecure so as to endanger life, limb,
or property.
   (F)   (1)   For any premises to lack electrical service, plumbing, heating,
and/or other equipment required by this chapter, the Property Maintenance Code,
state statute or any other ordinance of the city.
      (2)   If the utility providing natural gas service to a furnace, water
heater, or other equipment determines that the equipment is defective, the
utility shall cite or "red tag" the defective equipment and notify the Code
Enforcement Officer of such citation. Any equipment so cited by a utility
company as defective will be deemed a public nuisance.
   (G)   For any structure or building to be in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration, or decay, or be a product of faulty construction.
   (H)   For any structure or building to be vacant or abandoned and open or
accessible to vagrants or passersby, or damaged by fire so as to not provide
shelter.
   (I)   To allow on any premises or structure any stagnant water in which
mosquitoes, flies, or other insects may breed or multiply. For stagnant water
that cannot be easily eliminated, a property owner may use mosquito dunks or
other environmentally safe larvicides to kill mosquitoes and other insects and
evidence of the effective use of such products will constitute a defense to any
citation issued under this section.
   (J)   To allow any rubbish to remain on any premises.
   (K)   To allow any premises or structure to pollute any public well or
cistern, stream, lake, canal, or body of water by sewage, creamery, or
industrial wastes or other polluting substances.
   (L)   To allow any premises or structure within the city, to emit or cause
any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious, or disagreeable odors,
effluvia or stenches repulsive to the physical senses of ordinary persons, or
that annoy, cause discomfort, or injure the health of any appreciable number of
persons within the city.
   (M)   Harboring or keeping any animal of the dog kind which by loud and
frequent or habitual barking, howling, or yelping, shall cause serious
annoyance or disturbance to adjacent residents in the neighborhood. No animal
shall be kept on any lot or parcel of land or property within the city
consisting of less than 10,000 square feet in area. This provision does not
apply to small household pets, dogs or cats or those maintained for commercial
purposes in compliance with the city's zoning code.
   (N)   Any person having the custody and control of any domestic animal shall
be responsible for the removal of the animal's excrement and shall not allow
excessive excrement to accumulate on his or her premises.
   (O)   The keeping of cattle or fowl within the city. No owner, harborer,
landlord, tenant or person having the custody, control or possession of any
chicken, poultry, fowl or livestock shall permit the storage, keeping, raising
or harboring of any such animal within the city. The keeping or harboring of
such animals shall be considered a nuisance, de facto, under the terms of this
chapter.
   (P)   Emission of noxious odors or smoke into the surrounding atmosphere of
dust, smoke, or other matter which renders ordinary use or physical occupation
of other property in the vicinity uncomfortable or impossible.
   (Q)   Emission of noise or sounds which is noxious enough to destroy the
enjoyment of dwellings or other uses of property in the vicinity by interfering
with the ordinary comforts of human existence.
   (R)   Storage of explosives or combustible material. The storage of
combustible or explosive material which creates a safety hazard to other
property or persons in the vicinity.
   (S)   Any tree, stack of wood or trees, or other object standing in such a
condition that it will, if the condition is allowed to continue, endanger the
life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or injury to persons or
property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent thereto, by the
falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (T)   The operation of any ATV within the city on any day, before 8:00 a.m.
or after 10:00 p.m., prevailing time without the muffler system provided by the
manufacturer of the ATV, as provided by the manufacturer, without any
modification thereof other than like kind parts replacement, and which prevents
the emission of sound from the ATV in excess of the levels identified in 40 CFR
205.166 for motorcycles; or at any speed in excess of the minimum speed
required to maintain the forward motion of the ATV while it is within 150 feet
of any dwelling on a lot or parcel of real estate other than that upon which
the ATV is being operated.
   (U)   Any fire, other than that of candles, torches, grills, and fire code
compliant fire pits, that is outside of any building of any material other than
paper, wood, charcoal, propane or natural gas or more than three square feet in
area.
   (V)   To allow any motor vehicle to be parked on an unpaved surface.
   (W)   The feeding of ducks, geese, pigeons, and similar such birds and wild
animals, such as, raccoons and squirrels in a manner causing or contributing to
unsanitary conditions and offensive odors within the city limits. This would
include making mass quantities of food available to groups of waterfowl,
pigeons, or wild animals, on repeated occasions, so as to encourage them to
amass in one particular location. This does not include maintenance of
birdhouses or backyard bird feeders designed to feed sparrows, cardinals,
hummingbirds, or similar such birds.
   (X)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to allow criminal activity to
occur upon any property within the city. Any building or premises where law
enforcement officers have, on more than one occasion in the preceding 12-month
period, cited or arrested persons for crimes involving prostitution, controlled
substances, disorderly conduct or gambling or have executed court issued search
warrants for crimes involving prostitution, controlled substances, disorderly
conduct or gambling shall be in violation of this chapter. Property owners are
to be placed on notice if any of the preceding events occur and will be deemed
to have knowledge of these events once given notice. In the event of criminal
activity as described above occurs with the city, the Ludlow Police Department
shall provide this information to the City Administrator within 30 days. The
City Administrator shall then provide this information to the city Code
Enforcement Department for the issuance of a citation, if applicable.
   (Y)   No person shall remove a shopping cart from the property of any retail
shopping establishment. Property as used in this section shall be considered to
include, but not be limited to any public or private parking lot contiguous to
the retail shopping establishment. Every retail establishment that provides
carts to its customers that leave the building in which the establishment is
located shall post signs in conspicuous locations throughout the parking lot of
the retail establishment that state it is unlawful to remove carts from the
premises of the establishment, including, but not limited to, the parking lot.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.05 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   It shall be a public nuisance and a violation of this chapter, to keep,
maintain, or own a dangerous building within the city. A dangerous building is
defined as any of the following:
   (A)   (1)   A building whose interior or exterior walls or other vertical
structural members list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line
passing through the center of gravity falls outside the middle third of its
base;
      (2)   A building, exclusive of the foundation, that shows 33% or more
damage or deterioration to its supporting members, or 50% or more damage or
deterioration to its non-supporting members, or to the enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
      (3)   A building having improperly distributed loads on the floors or
roofs or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe to occupants or the public;
      (4)   A building damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to cause
the building to become dangerous to life, limb, or property of the occupants or
to the public;
      (5)   A building that has become or is so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary, or which so utterly fails to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that it is unfit for human habitation, or is likely to cause
sickness or disease or injury to health, safety, or general welfare of those
living therein;
      (6)   A building having light, air, and sanitation facilities that are
inadequate to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of human beings
who live or may live therein;
      (7)   A building having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire
or panic or having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or other
means of travel;
      (8)   A building that has parts or elements that are attached or not
attached in such a way that they may fall and cause injury to persons or
property;
      (9)   A building that is missing or has nonfunctioning smoke detectors,
and/or carbon monoxide detectors or similar detection devices in violation of
the Fire Code; or
      (10)   A building with openings where a door, window or other
architectural feature, or parts thereof, should be located.
   (B)   Every person owning or having control of a building shall not allow
unsecure openings where a door, window or other architectural feature should be
located.
      (1)   The city shall be authorized to abate the nuisance of an unsecured
opening, and may effectuate securing the opening pursuant to the applicable
code upon recommendation of a Code Enforcement Official.
      (2)   The nuisance of opening where a door, window or other architectural
feature should be located may be securely boarded by using a minimum of three-
eighths inch plywood or other similar material in a manner that will secure the
building from intrusion.
      (3)   Any board placed on a building shall be painted a color that is
consistent with the color of the structure or be painted black, and shall be
cut to fit the opening.
   (C)   Every person violating the provisions of this section shall be subject
to the procedures set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Keeping, maintaining, or owning a dangerous building is a public
nuisance and shall constitute a violation of this chapter, subject to the
remedies set forth in KRS 381.770, as well as this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.06 GRAFFITI.
   Graffiti is prohibited and deemed to be a public nuisance. It shall be
unlawful to spray, draw, etch, carve or otherwise create graffiti on any
building or structure in the city. If a private property owner fails to abate a
graffiti nuisance violation after notice is given by the Code Enforcement
Officer, the city may abate the graffiti and place a lien for the cost of
abatement against the real property of the owner of said premises, building, or
structure.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.07 JUNKED OR WRECKED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful to allow junked or wrecked vehicles, machines, scrap,
salvage materials, mobile or manufactured homes to exist on real property in
the city not within a duly licensed salvage yard pursuant to KRS 177.910 to
177.950. Furthermore:
   (A)   No inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or
stored on any occupied or unoccupied premises and no vehicle shall at any time
be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair, or in the process of being
stripped or dismantled. Painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted
inside an approved spray booth. Except as provided in division (D), it shall be
unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any
land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of
filth to develop thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   One or more junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines or
other similar scrap or salvage materials, excluding non-operative farm
equipment; or
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes, as defined in KRS
227.550, that are junked, wrecked, or non-operative and are not inhabited.
   (B)   The provisions of §
91.01 shall not apply to:
      (1)   Junked, wrecked, or non-operative automobiles, vehicles, machines
or other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of
a licensed automotive recycling dealer as defined under the provisions of KRS
190.010(8);
      (2)   Junked, wrecked or non-operative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private real property by automobile collectors, whether as a
hobby or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery or other
means; and
      (3)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.011 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed or leased by a motor carrier.
      (4)   A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major overhaul,
including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a structure or
similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
   (C)   The city may take action to abate the nuisances referenced in this
section by giving notice to the property owner of the nuisance pursuant to the
procedures set forth in this chapter. The city itself may abate or remove a
nuisance referenced under this section if the property owner fails to do so
after notice is given regarding the nuisance. The city shall have a lien
against the property for the reasonable value of labor and material used in
remedying the nuisance including but not limited to the cost of towing,
holding, storage and disposal. An affidavit of a Code Enforcement Officer shall
constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of
the proceedings pursuant to this section and it shall be recorded in the office
of the City Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest thereafter until paid. The lien created shall
take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except state, county, school
board, and the city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial proceeding.
   (D)   In addition to the remedies prescribed above or any other remedy
authorized by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached
pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien
and the city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owned.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.08 RUBBISH OR EXCESSIVE GROWTH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, person or corporation
controlling or managing land in the city to permit a nuisance thereon through
the accumulation of rubbish or excessive growth of weeds, grass and similar
items. Any officer designated by the city legislative body may give five days
written notice to remedy such situation and said notice shall be hand-delivered
and/or mailed by regular mail to the last known address of the owner of said
property to comply, the City Administrator is authorized to send employees of
the city upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (B)   The city shall have a lien against said property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying such situation, such labor shall
be calculated at an hourly rate of $75 per hour. The affidavit of the City
Clerk shall constitute prima facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the
regularity of the proceedings pursuant to said statute and shall be recorded in
the office of the County Clerk in the county where such city is located. Said
lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall
bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.09 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; RECORD KEEPING;
INSPECTION.
   The powers and duties of the Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board or
any person that they may be designated by the city to enforce the provisions of
this chapter shall include but not be limited to the following all pursuant to
KRS 65.8801 thru 65.8839.
   (A)   To conduct surveys and make inspections in any area of the city to
determine compliance with this chapter or other ordinances he or she is
empowered to enforce.
   (B)   To investigate all complaints made about buildings, structures, vacant
lots, or other premises within the city, whether they be verbal, written, or in
the form of a petition, alleging or charging that a violation of this chapter
exists or that a dwelling, structure, or building is unfit or unsafe for human
habitation or other occupancy.
   (C)   In support of police or fire authority to inspect, survey, or
investigate any building, structure, dwelling, or premises between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or at any time if an emergency exists or if requested
by the owner or occupant. A Code Enforcement Officer may enter a building,
structure, dwelling, or premises to inspect, survey, or investigate with the
consent of the owner or occupant, in emergency situations, or when an
inspection, survey, or investigation is required before a permit is issued or
funding is provided by the county or is part of a licensing scheme adopted by
the county. If an owner or occupant refuses to consent to entry or inspection
of a building, structure, dwelling, or premises, a Code Enforcement Officer may
obtain a search warrant for this purpose from a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. In addition, a Code Enforcement Officer may obtain a search
warrant to inspect several buildings or structures in a particular area as part
of an area inspection policy promulgated by the city. Probable cause to issue a
search warrant may be based upon the passage of time, the nature of the
building (e.g., a multi-family apartment house), the condition of the entire
area, or other reasonable legislative or administrative standards adopted by
the county. Probable cause does not need to depend upon specific knowledge of a
condition existing in a particular dwelling. A Code Enforcement Officer
conducting an inspection pursuant to this chapter shall provide identification
and statement of purpose before entering any building, structure, dwelling, or
premises and the person in possession or in charge of the building, structure,
dwelling, or premises shall give the Joint Code Enforcement Board and his or
her assistants, staff, or employees free access to such property for the
purposes set forth herein.
   (D)   To administer oaths and affirmations, to examine witnesses, and
receive evidence.
   (E)    To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   (F)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this chapter
and other ordinances to such officers, agents, and employees as he or she
designates.
   (G)   To seek through the appropriate judicial officer or office, such
warrants that are necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter and in
pursuit of said warrants, make such oath or affirmation necessary in support
thereof.
   (H)   To keep records of all complaints received, inspection reports,
orders, and of other actions taken. The records shall be made available for
public inspection upon request within a reasonable amount of time. The Joint
Code Enforcement Board shall prepare an annual report including statistics
based on the records kept.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.10 ESTABLISHMENT OF CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD; POWERS.
   The Kenton County Joint Code Enforcement Board shall act as the hearing
board for the enforcement of this chapter. Authorized personnel of Planning and
Development Services of Kenton County and city police and fire officials shall
act as the enforcement authority for the provisions of this chapter. A Code
Enforcement Officer, in order to facilitate inspection of premises reasonably
suspected of being in violation of this chapter, may obtain an administrative
search warrant upon presentation of an appropriate affidavit to a Kenton County
District or Circuit Judge. The affidavit and search warrant shall be in
substantial conformity to the formats attached as Exhibits A and B of Ordinance
2016-9.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.11 APPEALS OF CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD DECISION; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   An appeal from any final order issued by the hearing board may be made to
the Kenton District Court within 30 days after the date when the order is
issued by the board. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint
and a copy of the board's order in the same manner as any civil action under
the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure. The appeal shall be de novo as
determined by case law precedent. If no appeal from a final order of the board
is filed within the time period set forth in this section, the board's order
shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.12 LIEN; RECORDING; FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city shall possess a lien on real property owned by the person found by
a final order of the hearing board, or by final judgment of a court, to have
committed a violation of this chapter in the amount of all fines assessed for
the violation, for all charges, fees, and abatement costs incurred by the city
in connection with the enforcement of this chapter, and bear interest until
paid. The lien shall be superior to and have priority over all other liens on
the property, except state, county, school board, and city taxes. A person
found to have committed a violation of this chapter shall be personally liable
for the amount of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties shall apply to violations of this chapter:
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than $50 per day per
violation but not more than $500 per day per violation, or the cost to the city
to abate the public nuisance, or both. Each day that a violation of this
chapter continues after due notice has been served in accordance with the terms
of this chapter may be deemed a separate offense to a maximum of $10,000 per
citation.
   (B)   As an additional alternative remedy to the above penalty, any violator
who violates any provision of this chapter and has been previously issued two
or more citations for violation of this chapter relating to the same property
within a 12-month period may be assessed additional civil penalties of $500 per
day per violation to a maximum of $20,000 per citation.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-10-2016)
CHAPTER 92: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
92.001   Definitions
   
92.002   Prohibition
   
92.003   Sale of fireworks
   
92.004   Permanent retail fireworks permit
   
92.005   Signs required
   
92.006   Ancillary retail fireworks permit
   
92.007   Revocation of permit
Fire Prevention Code
   
92.020   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
92.021   Designated enforcement officer
   
92.022   Fire lane parking
Blasting; Flammable Containers
   
92.035   Blasting permit
   
92.036   Storage of flammables and other matter
Fireproofing Commercial Garages
   
92.050   Definitions
   
92.051   Fireproof construction required
   
92.052   Volatile inflammable liquids to be kept in safety cans; portable
filling tanks
   
92.053   Electrical charging apparatus
   
92.054   Smoking prohibited
   
92.055   Sand to be used to absorb waste oils on floor for fire extinguishing
purposes
   
92.056   Chemical fire extinguishers
   
92.057   Inflammable waste materials to be deposited in self-closing metal cans
   
92.058   Calcium carbide to be maintained in airtight containers of
noncombusitble material
   
92.059   Regulations to be posted
Hauling Dangerous Substances
   
92.070   Definitions
   
92.071   Operators to notify Fire Department of transporting within city
Open Burning
   
92.085   Permit required for open fire
   
92.086   Permit required for burning on construction or demolition sites
   
92.087   Location and containment of open fires
   
92.088   Constant attention to open fires required
   
92.089   Garden hose or fire extinguishment devices required
   
92.090   Authority to prohibit open fires
Smoke Detectors
   
92.100   Definitions
   
92.101   Smoke detection required
   
92.102   Type and placement of smoke detectors
   
92.103   Providing, installing and maintaining smoke detectors
   
92.104   Supplemental standards
   
92.105   Enforcement
   
92.106   Final action and appeals
   
92.107   Emergency order
 
   
92.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Ch. 38
FIREWORKS
§ 92.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AERIAL or AUDIBLE CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those consumer fireworks described in
KRS 227.702 (2) and (3) only.
   ANCILLARY FIREWORKS RETAILER. Any person, business entity, association, or
corporation of any kind which is open to the public year round and at least 20
calendar days per month, and which  offers for sale, exposes for sale, sells at
retail or wholesale, or keeps with intent to sell only those fireworks as
described in KRS 227.702(1) and which such sales are ancillary to its primary
course of business.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Has the same meaning as in KRS 227.702.
   PERMANENT FIREWORKS RETAILER. Any person, business entity, association, or
corporation of any kind which is open to the public year round and at least 20
calendar days per month, and, which offers for sale, exposes for sale, sells at
retail or wholesale, or keeps with intent to sell any consumer fireworks as its
primary course of business.
   SEASONAL FIREWORKS RETAILER. Any person, business entity, association, or
corporation of any kind which is not considered a permanent fireworks retailer
or ancillary fireworks retailer and which offers for sale, exposes for sale,
sells at retail or wholesale, or keeps with intent to sell any consumer
fireworks.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-26-2012; Am. Ord.
2023-13, passed 10-12-2023)
§ 92.002 PROHIBITION.
   The use or sale of fireworks, including consumer fireworks, is prohibited in
the city except in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-26-2012) Penalty,
see §
92.999
§ 92.003 SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   Subject to applicable zoning regulations, federal, state and local law, and
the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Ancillary fireworks retailers shall be permitted to offer for sale,
expose for sale, sell at retail or wholesale, or keep with the intent to sell,
those fireworks described in KRS 227.702(1) when such sales are ancillary to
its primary course of business;
   (B)   Permanent fireworks retailers shall be permitted to offer for sale,
expose for sale, sell at retail or wholesale, or keep with the intent to sell,
any consumer fireworks as their primary course of business: and
   (C)   Seasonal fireworks retailers shall not be allowed to offer for sale,
expose for sale, sell at retail or wholesale, or keep with the intent to sell,
any fireworks, at any time or place.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-26-2012) Penalty,
see §
92.999
§ 92.004 PERMANENT RETAIL FIREWORKS PERMIT.
   Permanent fireworks retailers shall obtain and keep in force a city issued
permanent retail fireworks permit (the “permanent permit”) under the following
terms and conditions:
   (A)   Applications for the permanent permit shall be submitted to the Ludlow
Police Department at least 15 days prior to the applicant’s desired effective
date for the permit, on a form approved by the city. All applications must
include a detailed site plan for the proposed location.
   (B)   Applicant shall provide proof of registration with the State Fire
Marshall in accordance with the applicable provisions of KRS Chapter 227.
   (C)   The application must be endorsed by the Planning and Development
Services of Kenton County indicating that the proposed location on the
application is zoned appropriately for the conduct of the business.
   (D)   Applicant shall obtain an occupational license from the city.
   (E)   Applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance or other valid
proof of general liability insurance in an amount of not less than $1,000,000
per occurrence which shall remain in effect at all times while engaged in the
permitted activity.
   (F)   Applicant shall comply with all aspects of applicable provisions of
KRS Chapter 227, the International Building Code with Kentucky Amendments
(adopted edition), NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection Association, currently
adopted edition) and all other applicable state, federal or local laws or
regulations.
   (G)   Applicant shall not allow any person under 18 years of age to sell
consumer fireworks.
   (H)   Applicant shall not give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks to any person under 18 years of age.
   (I)   Applicant shall not offer for sale, expose for sale, or sell consumer
fireworks except between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (J)   If the permanent permit is not renewed, it shall automatically expire
365 calendar days after its effective date, or upon a date on which the
applicant no longer qualifies as a permanent fireworks retailer as defined
herein, whichever occurs earlier. The permanent permit may be renewed for
successive 365 calendar day periods so long as the applicant continues to
qualify for issuance of the permanent permit. Applications for renewal periods
shall be made to the Ludlow Police Department on forms approved by the city.
The fee for the initial permit period, payable at the time of application,
shall be $3,000. The fee for any subsequent permit period, payable at the time
of application shall be $1,000.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-26-2012; Am. Ord.
2023-13, passed 10-12-2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.005 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   At all locations within the premises of a permanent fireworks retailer where
consumer fireworks are offered for sale, such retailer shall conspicuously post
a sign or signs which state as follows:
      “Under Kentucky law these fireworks may only be used by persons at least
18 years of age and these fireworks shall not be ignited within 200 feet of any
structure, vehicle or any other person [KRS 227.715(11)]”
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-26-2012; Am. Ord.
2023-13, passed 10-12-2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.006 ANCILLARY RETAIL FIREWORKS PERMIT.
   Ancillary fireworks retailers shall obtain and keep in force a city issued
ancillary retail fireworks permit (the “ancillary permit”) under the following
terms and conditions:
   (A)   Applications for the ancillary permit shall be submitted to the Ludlow
Police Department at least 15 days prior to the applicant’s desired effective
date for the permit, on a form approved by the city.
   (B)   Applicant shall possess an occupational license from the city.
   (C)   Applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance or other valid
proof of general liability insurance in an amount of not less than $1,000,000
per occurrence which shall remain in effect at all times while engaged in the
permitted activity.
   (D)   Applicant shall comply with all aspects of applicable provisions of
KRS Chapter 227, the International Building Code with Kentucky Amendments
(adopted edition) NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection Association, currently
adopted edition) and all other applicable state, federal or local laws or
regulations.
   (E)   (1)   If the ancillary permit is not renewed, it shall automatically
expire 365 calendar days after its effective date, or upon a date on which the
applicant no longer qualifies as an ancillary fireworks retailer as defined
herein, whichever occurs earlier. The ancillary permit may be renewed for
successive 365 calendar day periods so long as the applicant continues to
qualify for issuance of the ancillary permit.
      (2)   Applications for renewal period shall be made to the Ludlow Police
Department on forms approved by the city. The fee for the initial permit,
payable at the time of application, shall be $1,000. The fee for any subsequent
permit period, payable at the time of application, shall be $1,000.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-26-2012; Am. Ord.
2023-13, passed 10-12-2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.007 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be revoked by
the City Administrator upon a showing that the permit holder has violated any
of the provisions of this subchapter. Revocation shall be by written notice
which describes the reasons for the revocation. The written notice of
revocation shall be delivered to the permit holder in person or by regular mail
sent to the address listed on the application. If a permit is revoked, and the
applicant desires to contest the revocation, a hearing before the City Council
may be obtained by filing with the office of the City Administrator a written
request for hearing within 15 days of the issuance of the revocation notice.
The hearing before the City Council shall be conducted within 30 days of
receipt of the written request.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 5-10-2012; Am. Ord. 2012-10, passed 6-26-2012; Am. Ord.
2023-13, passed 10-12-2023)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.020 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the Standards of Safety, as contained in Title
915, Chapter 10 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations, is hereby adopted
in full as an ordinance of the city. A copy of the operable Standards of Safety
are available upon request.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-2023)
§ 92.021 DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Fire Chief or his or her designated officer shall be designated as
the local enforcement agent for the Standards of Safety.
(`96 Code, § 93.11) (Ord. 1991-16, passed 12-11-1991; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed
10-12-2023)
§ 92.022 FIRE LANE PARKING.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 227.320, every owner of any parking lot containing
space for ten or more vehicles; and every operator of any business served
thereby, shall provide a fire lane consisting of an open space immediately
adjacent to the building(s) served by the parking lot. The fire lane shall be
marked in a manner approved by the City Fire Chief.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park in or otherwise block the
fire lane. The Fire Chief is authorized to have any vehicle that is parked in
violation of this section towed at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Any person who violates this section may also be fined in the amount
of $50 for the first offense, $100 for the second offense, and $500 for any
additional offense.
   (D)   Any person may contest a citation issued under this section by filing
a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within seven days. In the event the
citation is appealed, a hearing will be conducted before the Fire Chief within
30 days. If a person fails to file a timely appeal, the citation will be final
and the person forfeits any right to appeal and to otherwise contest the
contents of the citation.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-2023)
BLASTING; FLAMMABLE CONTAINERS
§ 92.035 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without submitting an
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Fire Chief or
City Administrator. Before granting the permit, the City Fire Chief or City
Administrator may require the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city
and all other persons against injury or damages which might result from the
proposed blasting.
(`96 Code, § 93.20) (Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.036 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for the hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(`96 Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
92.999
FIREPROOFING COMMERCIAL GARAGES
§ 92.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC OR COMMERCIAL GARAGE.
      (1)   A building or that portion of a building which is capable of
storing more than three automobiles or motor cars charged with or containing a
volatile inflammable liquid for fuel or power. Where any portion of a building
is used for a garage, the term shall be deemed to embrace all portions of the
building not separated from the garage proper by standard fire walls. All
openings in the walls of any garage shall be protected on both sides by
standard fire doors, constantly closed, except when temporarily opened for
passage.
      (2)   A private garage which is capable of storing not more than three
automobiles must be of incombustible material if it is located within 15 feet
of any other building.
   VOLATILE INFLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid that will emit inflammable vapor at
a temperature below 80°F.
(`96 Code, § 93.35) (Ord. 599, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-
2023)
§ 92.051 FIREPROOF CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No frame building shall be used as a public or commercial garage and
no building exceeding one story in height shall be used as a garage within the
city limits unless it is constructed to be fireproof. No basement or cellar
shall be allowed under any public or commercial garage, nor shall any building
be used as a garage unless the floor on which automobiles containing volatile
inflammable liquids are stored shall be of concrete or other suitable
noncombustible material.
   (B)   No stove, forge, torch, boiler or other furnace and no flame or fire
shall be used or allowed in any garage. All electric dynamos and motors not
actually part of the automobile, except explosion-proof or fully enclosed
motors, shall be located not less than five feet above the floor. All
incandescent lights so located as to be exposed to mechanical injury shall be
protected by approved wire guards and all arc lamps shall be so located as to
be safe from mechanical injury and shall be of the enclosed type; an approved
reinforced cord must be used where lamps are used for portable purposes.
Movable incandescent lights in a garage shall be protected by approved metal
guards and shall be fitted with keyless sockets and all electric switches and
plugs shall be permanently located at least five feet above the floor and
enclosed in a fireproof cabinet. The entire electrical equipment shall conform
to the rules contained in the latest edition of the National Electrical Code.
(`96 Code, § 93.36) (Ord. 599, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-
2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.052 VOLATILE INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS TO BE KEPT IN SAFETY CANS; PORTABLE
FILLING TANKS.
   (A)   (1)   No volatile inflammable liquid shall be kept or carried in open
vessels in a garage and no volatile inflammable liquid shall be drawn, except
into approved safety cans of a capacity not exceeding five gallons each, and
then, with the exception of liquids with a flashpoint above 30°F, only for the
purpose of immediately filling the tanks of automobiles contained in a garage.
      (2)   In lieu of the above safety cans, portable filling tanks, not to
exceed 60 gallons in capacity, may be used for transporting volatile
inflammable liquid to and from the storage tanks for filling and charging the
automobile.
      (3)   The portable tanks shall be supported on rubber-tired wheels and
liquids must be drawn by means of a tight-fitting pump.
      (4)   Hose attachments must not exceed ten feet in length, equipped at
the end with a shut-off valve.
   (B)   No volatile inflammable liquid shall be allowed to run upon the floor
or to fall or pass into the drainage system of a garage, nor shall any such
liquid be put into or removed from the tanks of a vehicle while any light or
fire on the same is burning.
(`96 Code, § 93.37) (Ord. 599, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-
2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.053 ELECTRICAL CHARGING APPARATUS.
   (A)   Where any electric charging apparatus is installed or placed in a
public or commercial garage, the apparatus, with the exception of the wires
leading to the automobiles to be charged, shall be placed within a room
separated from the main garage by fireproof walls, which wall shall not be
inferior in fire-resisting qualities to reenforced concrete construction four
inches in thickness.
   (B)   Any openings from any room containing an apparatus shall be protected
by self-closing fire doors and door sills shall be raised at least eight inches
above the floor level.
(`96 Code, § 93.38) (Ord. 599, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-
2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.054 SMOKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall smoke in any garage.
   (B)   A notice in large letters containing the phrase “no smoking” shall be
displayed in a conspicuous place and at the entrance of all garages.
(`96 Code, § 93.39) (Ord. 599, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-
2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.055 SAND TO BE USED TO ABSORB WASTE OILS ON FLOOR FOR FIRE EXTINGUISHING
PURPOSES.
   (A)   On the floor of every garage, there shall be constantly kept and
maintained convenient receptacles filled with sand to be used in absorbing
waste oils on the floor; in addition thereto, sand shall be kept on every floor
in boxes or buckets provided with hand scoops to be used for fire extinguishing
purposes only.
   (B)   There shall be one box or bucket of sand for each 2,000 square feet of
floor area or fraction thereof or, in lieu of those boxes or buckets, there may
be maintained a cart on wheels filled with sand containing not less than four
cubic feet of sand.
(`96 Code, § 93.40) (Ord. 599, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-
2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.056 CHEMICAL FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
   Every garage shall be maintained with at least one chemical fire
extinguisher for each 2,000 square feet of floor space or fraction thereof.
(`96 Code, § 93.41) (Ord. 599, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-
2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.057 INFLAMMABLE WASTE MATERIALS TO BE DEPOSITED IN SELF-CLOSING METAL
CANS.
   Self-closing metal cans set firmly on four-inch legs shall be kept on all
floors of every garage, into which all inflammable waste materials shall be
deposited at all times when not in use, and there shall be one can for each
2,500 square feet of floor area or fraction thereof. The contents of all waste
cans shall be removed from the building daily and disposed of properly.
(`96 Code, § 93.42) (Ord. 599, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-
2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.058 CALCIUM CARBIDE TO BE MAINTAINED IN AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS OF
NONCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL.
   Calcium carbide shall be kept in airtight containers of noncombustible
material, preferably galvanized iron of not less than 18 U.S. metal gauge, with
the bottom of the container being at least six inches above the floor, and
having securely fastened automatic closing covers.
(`96 Code, § 93.43) (Ord. 599, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-
2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.059 REGULATIONS TO BE POSTED.
   Two printed copies of these regulations shall be conspicuously posted on at
least one wall on each floor of every public or commercial garage.
(`96 Code, § 93.44) (Ord. 599, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-
2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
HAULING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES
§ 92.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES or DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES. Any substance or mixture of
substances which is:
      (1)   Toxic and has the inherent capacity to produce bodily injury to
humans through ingestion, inhalation or absorption through any body surface,
including toxic substances which are poisonous;
      (2)   Corrosive on contact with living tissue causing substantial
destruction of tissue by chemical action, but does not refer to action on
inanimate surfaces;
      (3)   Irritant and not corrosive, which on immediate, prolonged or
repeated contact with normal living tissue will induce a local inflammatory
reaction;
      (4)   A strong sensitizer and will cause, on normal living tissue through
an allergic or photodynamic process, a hypersensitivity which becomes evident
on reapplication of the same substance and which is designated as such by the
City Council;
      (5)   Flammable with a flashpoint of 80°F or below;
      (6)   Radioactive as a result of disintegration of unstable atomic nuclei
and emits energy;
      (7)   Capable of generating pressure through decomposition, heat or other
means; or
      (8)   Capable of causing substantial personal injury or illness during
any customary or reasonably anticipated handling or use.
(`96 Code, § 93.60) (Ord. 1980-9-2, passed 10-8-1980; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed
10-12-2023)
§ 92.071 OPERATORS TO NOTIFY FIRE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTING WITHIN CITY.
   All commercial rail, barge and truck operators within the city which haul
dangerous and hazardous substances, with the exception of gasoline, are
required to give advance notification to the Volunteer Fire Department and the
city whenever they intend to transport any such substances within the
jurisdictional confines of the city.
(`96 Code, § 93.61) (Ord. 1980-9-2, passed 10-8-1980; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed
10-12-2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.085 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN FIRE.
   No person, firm, corporation or agent thereof may kindle or maintain any
open fire, except an outdoor cooking fire of appropriate size, or authorize any
fire to be kindled or maintained without first obtaining a permit from the Fire
Chief or his or her designee.
(`96 Code, § 93.75) (Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.086 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BURNING ON CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION SITES.
   During the construction or demolition of buildings or other structures, no
waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or
in the immediate vicinity without a permit or other proper authorization.
(`96 Code, § 93.76) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.087 LOCATION AND CONTAINMENT OF OPEN FIRES.
   No person, firm, corporation or agent thereof may kindle or maintain any
open fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained unless the
location is not less than 50 feet from any structure and adequate provision is
made to prevent the fire from spreading closer than 50 feet to any structure;
or the fire is contained in an adequate and approved waste burner located
safely not less than 25 feet from any structure.
(`96 Code, § 93.77) (Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.088 CONSTANT ATTENTION TO OPEN FIRES REQUIRED.
   Open fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person not less than
18 years of age.
(`96 Code, § 93.78) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.089 GARDEN HOSE OR FIRE EXTINGUISHMENT DEVICES REQUIRED.
   A garden hose connected to a water supply or other fire extinguishment
equipment must be readily available for use within ten feet of any open fires.
(`96 Code, § 93.79) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.090 AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT OPEN FIRES.
   The Fire Chief or his or her designee may prohibit any or all open fires
when natural conditions, the materials being burned or local circumstances make
these fires potentially hazardous or harmful.
(`96 Code, § 93.80)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 92.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building which contains one or more dwelling units or any
rooming unit, rooms or area designated or used for sleeping purposes, either as
a primary use or use on casual occasions. DWELLING shall include a rooming
house, motels, tourist homes, school dormitories, apartment buildings,
trailers, and condominiums, but not to the exclusion of other dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a building,
including mobile homes, and forming a single housekeeping unit with facilities
which are used or designed to be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
   OWNER. Any person or legal entity who alone, jointly or severally with
others:
      (1)   Shall have all or part of the legal title to any dwelling or
dwelling unit, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof, or shall
have all or part of the beneficial ownership of any dwelling or dwelling unit
and a right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgagee in
possession; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit
as owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee, guardian of the estate or
duly authorized agent of the owner. Any such person thus representing the
actual owner shall be bound to comply with the owner’s obligations under this
section.
   ROOMING UNIT.
      (1)   Any room which is designed or used for sleeping purposes.
      (2)   A ROOMING UNIT may include a room in a rooming house, a hotel, a
motel, a tourist home, a school dormitory or an apartment building which may,
or may not, have some additional facilities for eating or cooking contained
therein.
(`96 Code, § 93.90) (Ord. 1988-22, passed 10-12-1988; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed
10-12-2023)
§ 92.101 SMOKE DETECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subject to such exceptions and conditions for compliance as stated
herein, smoke detectors shall be required in all dwellings privately owned or
rented for occupancy. It shall be the responsibility of the owner of each new
and/or existing occupied dwelling unit to install smoke detectors in each
dwelling unit as hereinafter provided. The smoke detectors shall be capable of
sensing visible or invisible particles of combustion and providing a suitable
audible (or visual for the deaf or hearing-impaired) alarm.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to any and all dwellings or dwelling
units, new or existing, which do not fall under the jurisdiction of the
currently adopted Kentucky Building Code and/or the currently adopted life
safety code (LSC 101).
(`96 Code, § 93.91) (Ord. 1988-22, passed 10-12-1988; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed
10-12-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 92.102 TYPE AND PLACEMENT OF SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   In order to comply with this subchapter, only ionization or
photoelectric type detectors approved by a nationally recognized testing
laboratory shall be installed.
   Alternative: As an alternative to self-contained smoke detectors, under
certain limited conditions (such as battery powered smoke detectors), an
approved fire detection system or a combination thereof may be installed. The
Fire Chief of the City of Ludlow’s Volunteer Fire Department, or his or her
designee, shall, and on a case-by-case basis, approve each and every
alternative system in written form.
   (B)   Smoke detectors in new residential dwellings shall be wired directly
(hard wired) to the building’s power supply. In existing buildings, it is
preferred that smoke detectors be wired directly to the power supply; however,
the detectors may be powered by self-monitored battery or operated by an
electrical plug-in outlet which is fitted with a plug restrainer device,
provided that the outlet is not controlled by any switch other than the main
power supply.
   (C)   Smoke detectors shall be placed in accordance with applicable N.F.P.A.
Standards (see Supplemental Standards, Section e). Detectors may be ceiling or
wall mounted, provided however that if wall mounted they shall be within 12
inches, but not closer than six inches, of the ceiling.
   (D)   (1)   At least one smoke detector shall be installed to protect each
sleeping area.
      (2)   A sleeping area is defined as the area or areas of the dwelling
unit in which the bedrooms (or sleeping rooms) are located. Where bedrooms or
rooms ordinarily used for sleeping are separated by other used areas (such as
kitchens or living rooms, but not bathrooms or closets), they shall be
considered as separate sleeping areas for purposes of this section.
      (3)   In a dwelling unit which contains a well-defined sleeping room
separated from the other activity areas of the same unit, the detector shall be
located in the corridor within the unit or interior area giving direct access
to the rooms used for sleeping purposes.
      (4)   Where sleeping areas are separated and/or where a single smoke
detector will not adequately service all sleeping areas, there shall be smoke
detectors installed adjacent to each sleeping area.
   (E)   In a rooming unit, the detector shall be centrally located on the
ceiling.
   (F)   In a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units or any rooming
unit, in addition to the requirements for individual smoke detectors in each
dwelling unit or rooming unit, detectors shall be placed in centrally located
common areas, so that smoke detectors will adequately service all sleeping
areas.
   (G)   At least one smoke detector shall be installed in or near each
stairway leading up to an occupied area in a manner as to assure that rising
smoke is not obstructed in reaching the detector and the detector intercepts
rising smoke before it reaches the occupied areas.
(`96 Code, § 93.92) (Ord. 1988-22, passed 10-12-1988; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed
10-12-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 92.103 PROVIDING, INSTALLING AND MAINTAINING SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for supplying and
installing, in an operable condition, the required detector(s) and for
providing maintenance and testing in an owner occupied residence; or for
providing the manufacturer’s maintenance and testing instructions to a tenant
in the case of rental property.
   (B)   The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for maintenance and
testing of detectors, in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions, which are
located in common areas and/or detectors in rooming units where the tenant
usually has short periods of occupancy (hotels, motels, rooming or tourist
homes).
   (C)   (1)   The tenant shall be responsible for maintaining and testing the
detector, in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions, which are within
his or her exclusive control during the life of the tenancy.
      (2)   The tenant shall be responsible for notifying, in writing, the
owner when a detector becomes inoperable. Upon receipt of such notice, the
owner has ten days in which to repair or replace the detector(s).
      (3)   In the battery operated type of detector, battery replacement shall
be the responsibility of the tenant.
   (D)   At every change of tenancy, it shall be the duty of the owner to test
and ascertain that those detectors contained in the unit are in operable
condition, and if not, the owner shall be responsible for placing them in
operable condition prior to re-renting the unit.
   (E)   At every change of occupancy of every dwelling unit occasioned by or
incidental to a sale, lease or sub-lease of the unit, it shall be the duty of
the grantor thereof (such as, the seller, lessor or sub-lessor, as the case may
be,) to provide, before occupancy, notice to the new occupant that all smoke
detectors as required by this section (or other applicable laws) are installed
and in proper working condition. Failure to comply with this division (E) shall
be punishable as set forth herein; provided, however, that this division (E)
shall not be construed to violate or render void any contract, lease or
sublease subject hereto.
   (F)   No smoke detector or alternative system shall be directly connected
(permanently wired) to the electrical system of a structure without the proper
electrical certification.
(`96 Code, § 93.93) (Ord. 1988-22, passed 10-12-1988; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed
10-12-2023) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 92.104 SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   This section is intended to be used with, and supplemented by,
the applicable provisions of the National Fire Protection Standards, Nos. 72-
E and 74 (current edition) which are hereby incorporated herein.
      (2)   However, if there shall be any conflict between this subchapter and
the supplemental standards, this subchapter and any rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto shall prevail.
   (B)   All amendments to or changes in N.F.P.A. Nos. 72-E and 74 shall be
adopted without further action and are hereby incorporated by reference.
(`96 Code, § 93.94) (Ord. 1988-22, passed 10-12-1988; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed
10-12-2023)
§ 92.105 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter shall be enforced through the
officers, employees and volunteers of the City Fire Department and Code
Enforcement; and all other officers, employees and volunteers of the city shall
provide to the Fire Department and the city all information relevant thereto
acquired by them in the course and scope of their employment or association
with the city.
   (B)   No licenses, permits or certificates of any kind or nature shall be
issued on behalf of the city in regard to the condition of or any activity
within any dwelling unit unless smoke detectors have been installed and located
therein according to the requirements and specifications hereof. Detectors must
be operable for the final inspection by the City Fire Department or Code
Enforcement. Instructions/maintenance booklets must be provided to the owner by
the manufacturer pursuant to N.F.P.A. No. 74, and that documentation must be
provided during the final inspection.
   (C)   The Fire Chief or their designee (a “Fire Code Official”) shall
enforce and administer the provisions of KRS Chapter 227, the Kentucky
Standards of Safety, and all ordinances of the city with respect to fire
hazards.
   (D)   When any Fire Code Official shall find in any building, or upon any
premises or other place, a violation of KRS Chapter 227, a deficiency of the
Standards of Safety, or a violation of any ordinances of the city with respect
to fire hazards, the Fire Code Official shall give to the owner or their
representative a written notice of deficiency.
   (E)   When a deficiency of this chapter is observed and the notice of
deficiency is issued, the notice shall comply with the following format:
      (1)   The notice shall be in writing, and shall be either personally
delivered to the owner or posted in a conspicuous place on the premises.
      (2)   Include a description of the property sufficient for
identification.
      (3)   Include reasons why a notice of deficiency is being issued.
      (4)   Identify that a notice of up to 30 calendar days is being given to
bring the property into compliance.
      (5)   Include an explanation of the owner’s right to seek modification,
clarification, or withdrawal of the notice of deficiency by contacting the
issuing inspector.
   (F)   At the end of the notice period, a follow up inspection (second
inspection) will be conducted. If the deficiencies remain, the Fire Code
Official will request the owner to submit a plan of repair within seven
calendar days and issue a second notice period of up to an additional 30
calendar days to correct the deficiency.
   (G)   If deficiencies remain uncorrected after the second notice period, the
inspector shall assess the following fees against the property owner:
      (1)   Third inspection fee: $100.
      (2)   Fourth inspection fee: $200.
      (3)   Fifth and subsequent inspection fee: $500.
   (H)   Inspection fee invoices will be mailed by the city to the owner as it
appears on the property valuation administrator database. Fees collected under
the provision of this section shall be payable to the City of Ludlow. No
license, permit, or other approvals shall be granted by the city to any person
or business entity who is delinquent in the payment of any inspection fees. In
addition, the City Attorney, in cooperation with the Fire Chief, may pursue
collection in the appropriate court of law.
   (I)   If during a follow up inspection (or any subsequent inspection for the
same violation) the Fire Code Official finds an additional violation not found
during the initial inspection, such violation shall be treated as an initial
violation, for which the property owner shall be issued a notice of deficiency.
   (J)   Violations that remain uncorrected shall be referred to additional
agencies to assist in correcting the deficiencies.
('96 Code, § 93.95) (Ord. 1988-22, passed 10-12-1988; Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-
12-2023)
§ 92.106 FINAL ACTION AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person directly affected by a notice of deficiency shall have the
right to appeal to the Fire Chief. Any such appeal shall be in writing and
delivered to the Fire Chief within seven days after the notice of deficiency is
issued. Upon receipt of such notice, the Fire Chief shall, within 30 days of
receipt of the notice, set a date for a hearing on the appeal. If a person
fails file a timely appeal, the notice of deficiency will be final and the
person forfeits any right to appeal and to otherwise contest the contents of
the notice.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by any action of the Fire Chief may appeal to the
State Fire Marshal as provided in KRS 227.380.
   (C)   If the matter is not resolved by agreement of the affected parties and
the State Fire Marshal, legal action shall be initiated pursuant to KRS Chapter
227. In addition, the Fire Chief may take all action permitted under KRS
227.390.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-2023)
§ 92.107 EMERGENCY ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever a Fire Code Official finds a violation with respect to fire
hazards that render any property especially susceptible to fire loss, and there
is present such hazard to human life or limb that the public safety
imperatively requires emergency action, the Fire Code Official shall order the
defects or hazards to be removed or remedied immediately. If the order is not
complied with, the Fire Chief is authorized to close buildings and any premises
by padlocking such place and placing a notice “Closed to the Public by Order of
the Fire Chief” on the entrance doors. Such buildings and premises shall be
closed to the public and vacated by its occupants until the violation is
corrected.
   (B)   Upon receipt of notice of an emergency order issued above, an owner or
agent may seek a temporary restraining order prohibiting its enforcement in the
Circuit Court where the property is located. The Court may review the emergency
order and prohibit its enforcement.
(Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-2023)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which a
penalty is not specified, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
92.002 through
92.007, or who knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate
the provisions of those sections, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation in violation of any provisions of §
92.071 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in a sum not to
exceed $500 per occurrence or imprisoned for not more than six months, or both.
Each occurrence shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1980-9-2, passed 10-8-1980)
   (D)   (1)   The minimum penalty for noncompliance with §§
92.100 through
92.105 is $250.
      (2)   The penalty for noncompliance with §§
92.100 through
92.105 is automatically waived if the dwelling unit is brought into compliance
within 30 days of the original violation. The property owner must request an
inspection by the City Fire Department to verify compliance and have the waiver
provision applied.
      (3)   Continued failure to comply may result in a maximum penalty of
$1,000 or six months in jail.
(`96 Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 1988-22, passed 10-12-1988; Am. Ord. 2012-10, passed
6-26-2012; Am. Ord. 2023-13, passed 10-12-2023)
CHAPTER 93: LITTERING
Section
   
93.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
93.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
93.03   Hauling loose material
   
93.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
93.05   Litter on private property
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
(`96 Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind.
(`96 Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in vehicles
provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
the contents from falling or being thrown, blown or deposited upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place. Any materials which fall from, or which
are thrown, blown or deposited from any vehicle upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place, shall be removed immediately by the person in
charge of the vehicle.
(`96 Code, § 94.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(`96 Code, § 94.04) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in a manner that litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks or other public
places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
(`96 Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(`96 Code, § 94.99)
CHAPTER 94: NOISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
94.01   Unlawful activity
   
94.02   Declaration of noise
   
94.03   Exemptions
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise or any noise which
either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace and safety of others, within the limits of the city.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 8-22-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 DECLARATION OF NOISE.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but said enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Horn, signaling devices and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street
or public place of the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by means
of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the
sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
   (B)   Radios, phonographs and the like. The using, operating or permitting
to be played, used or operated any radio, stereo, television, musical
instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is
necessary for convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room,
vehicle or chamber in which the machine or device is operated and who are
voluntary listeners thereto. The operation of any set, instrument, phonograph,
machine or device in a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet
from the location thereof shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
   (C)   Loud speakers, amplifiers for advertising. The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound which is case upon the public streets
for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the
public to any building or structure.
   (D)   Yelling, shouting and the like. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling
or singing at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of any persons in the vicinity.
   (E)   Animals, birds and the like. The keeping of any animal or bird which,
by causing frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or
repose of any persons in the vicinity.
   (F)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
stationary engine, motor boat, motorcycle or motor vehicle, except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or excessive noises
therefrom. Exhaust noise which is plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet
from the location thereof shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
   (G)   Defect in vehicle or load. The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in a manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
   (H)   Schools, courts, churches, hospitals. The creation of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or
court while the same are in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of the institution, or which disturbs
or unduly annoys patients in the hospital, provided conspicuous signs are
displayed in the streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital or
court street.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 8-22-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or for the performance of emergency work; or
   (B)   The discharge of firearms by members of the Police Department or other
sworn peace officers.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 8-22-1996)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation and every other failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor; and each day of the continuation thereof shall
be a separate and distinct offense for which:
   (A)   Any person convicted of violation of the provisions thereof in a court
of competent jurisdiction shall be sentenced to pay a criminal fine not to
exceed the maximum amount of $500, as set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term
of imprisonment not to exceed the maximum period of 12 months, as set forth in
KRS 532.090(1), or both.
   (B)   The offender shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for each
offense, which shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature
of debt if not paid by the offender within 30 days after citation of the
violation or other failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1996-7, passed 8-22-1996)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Regulations and anti-rabic provisions required
   
95.03   Running at large prohibited
   
95.04   Keeping of vicious animals, wild animals and livestock prohibited
   
95.05   Keeping of animals, livestock, chickens, fowl and/or poultry as public
nuisances prohibited
   
95.06   Police to take possession; entry on private property
   
95.07   Impounding
   
95.08   Interference with police officers and other empowered officials
   
95.09   Authority
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Any animal left more than 48 hours without a person checking on
the condition of the animal and/or providing food and water and any animal left
on private property without the owner’s consent or deserted or dumped on public
property or roadways.
   ANIMAL. Any live or vertebrate creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL. The County Dog Authority, which is an authority made of
cities in the county to control animals within city boundaries.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY CHAIRPERSON. The person elected by the County Dog
Authority to oversee its daily operation.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the County Dog Authority
who is qualified to perform such duties under the laws and ordinances of the
commonwealth and the designated city. An ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER shall be a law
enforcement officer for the purposes of this chapter only.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises operated or approved for operation by the
County Fiscal Court for the purposes of impounding and caring for animals held
under the authority of this chapter.
   CAT. Any member of the feline family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, boarding or breeding kennel,
grooming facility, auction, petting zoo, zoological park, circus, performing
animal exhibit or any person engaged in the business of breeding, buying or
selling at retail or wholesale, any species of animal for profit.
   DAY. A 24-hour period shall constitute a day.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Such animals as are habituated to live in or about the
habitations of human beings, and which are kept, cared for, sheltered, fed or
harbored for use as a pet or source of food, raw materials or income.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal not indigenous to the United States.
   FOWL/POULTRY.  Any member, species or subspecies of the domesticated or wild
fowl or poultry, including chickens, turkeys, geese, ducks, ostriches, game
birds and waterfowl.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. Any person or organization operating from a fixed site and
taking in or accepting stray or unwanted animals.
   IMPOUNDED. Having been received into the custody of the County Dog Authority
or any authorized representative thereof.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses or any other animals of the
bovine, opine, porcine, cupreine or equine species.
   OWNER. Any person, corporation or other entity owning, keeping, harboring or
sheltering one or more animals.
   PERSON. All natural persons, corporations, partnerships, firms,
associations, governmental bodies, agencies and other entities.
   PET. Domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks people or other animals;
      (3)   Damages public or private property;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at large;
      (5)   Makes noise in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion; and/or
      (6)   Repeatedly urinates or defecates on property not belonging to the
animal’s owner or creates unsanitary conditions.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal which constitutes a physical threat to human beings or
domestic animals which, due to a known propensity to endanger life, by an
unprovoked assault or bite which has resulted in serious bodily harm;
      (2)   Any animal, which, when unprovoked, approaches in a terrorizing
manner, any person in an attitude of attack upon streets, sidewalks or any
public grounds or places;
      (3)   Any animal with a known propensity , tendency or disposition to
unprovoked attacks which caused injury or endanger the safety of human beings
or domestic animals;
      (4)   Any animal which bites multiple times to the extent of causing
severe injury and assaults or otherwise attacks human beings or domestic
animals;
      (5)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting with animals;
      (6)   It shall be prima facie evidence that an animal is vicious if the
animal bites a human being or domestic animal more than once in the same
attack.
      (7)   An animal shall not be deemed vicious solely because:
         (a)   It bites, attacks or menaces:
            1.   Any person assaulting its owner;
            2.   Any person or animal who has tormented or abused it;
         (b)   It is otherwise acting in defense of any attack from a person or
other animal upon its owner or another person.
(`96 Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 1995-17, passed 11-9-1995; Am. Ord. 2002-5, passed 4-
11-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-1, passed 3-10-2011)
§ 95.02 REGULATIONS AND ANTI-RABIC PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person who owns or harbors a dog or cat
in the city to have the dog or cat inoculated with anti-rabic vaccine by a
veterinarian during the months of January through August of each year. Failure
to have the dog or cat inoculated during the period shall subject each person
to the penalty hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Every owner or harborer of a dog or cat, upon obtaining the tag from a
veterinarian, shall immediately attach the same to the collar or harness of the
dog or cat to be worn by the dog or cat at all times. The certificate obtained
from the veterinarian shall be retained by the owner or harborer of the dog or
cat for inspection by officials of the Police Department or other approved
officials of the city.
   (C)   The anti-rabic provisions shall not apply to dogs or cats kept by
regularly chartered medical colleges or other educational or scientific
institutions to be used for scientific purposes.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to keep at any one residence within the city
limits more than five dogs or cats or any combination thereof with the
exception that the owner or person who has custody of a dog or cat which
exceeds the permissible numbers set forth in this chapter for a period of 12
weeks after the bite of the animals. Any retention of dogs or cats in excess of
the number specified in this chapter after this 12-week period will constitute
a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Any person having custody of dogs or cats in excess of the number
permitted by this chapter shall have 30 days from the effective date of this
chapter in which to reduce the number of dogs and cats in their custody to
comply with this chapter.
(`96 Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 1995-17, passed 11-9-1995) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Every owner, harborer or person having the custody, control or
possession of any dog or cat shall keep the dog or cat restrained or confined
to the premises and property of the owner, harborer or custodian, except as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No owner, harborer or person having the custody, control or possession
of any dog or cat shall permit, allow or suffer the dog or cat:
      (1)   To run or be at large as hereinbefore defined; and/or
      (2)   To go about or on the premises or property of any other person
within the city without the permission of the other person.
(`96 Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 1995-17, passed 11-9-1995) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 KEEPING OF VICIOUS ANIMALS, WILD ANIMALS AND LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The keeping of vicious animals and large wild animals is prohibited.
No person shall keep any vicious animal and wild animal, whether owned by him
or her, or not, on his or her property within the city.
   (B)   The foregoing section is a necessary control on the unrestrained
activities of vicious animals and large wild animals which threaten the safety
and pleasantness of streets, parks, sidewalks, yards and all areas of the city;
and lack of knowledge or lack of interest is not a defense to a violation
thereof.
   (C)   The keeping of livestock is prohibited. No person shall keep any
livestock, whether owned by him or her, or not, on his or her property within
the city, except grandfathered farms.
   (D)   The keeping of fowl, poultry, chickens or other such birds is
prohibited. No person shall keep any fowl, poultry, chickens or other such
birds, whether owned by the owner, landlord or tenant on his or her property
within the city.
(`96 Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 1995-17, passed 11-9-1995; Am. Ord. 2011-2, passed 3-
10-2011) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 KEEPING OF ANIMALS, LIVESTOCK, CHICKENS, FOWL AND/OR POULTRY AS PUBLIC
NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No owner, harborer or person having the custody, control or possession
of any dog or cat shall permit the dog or cat to disturb the peace and quiet of
the neighborhood by reason of their howling, barking and whining, the stench
they cause, unsanitary conditions in which they are kept, or their disturbing
of people in the reasonable use and enjoyment of property where any of these
factors cause annoyance, discomfort or injury to the health and welfare of
persons in the neighborhood.
   (B)   No owner, harborer, landlord, tenant or person having the custody,
control or possession of any chicken, poultry, fowl or livestock shall permit
the storage, keeping, raising or harboring of any such animal within the city.
The keeping or harboring of such animals shall be considered a nuisance, de
factor, under the terms of this section.
(`96 Code, § 90.05) (Ord. 1995-17, passed 11-9-1995; Am. Ord. 2011-3, passed 3-
10-2011) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 POLICE TO TAKE POSSESSION; ENTRY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any and all dogs or cats found at large within the city in violation
of this chapter, and all unlicensed dogs or cats shall be taken into custody by
the Police Department and/or police officers, animal control officers or other
empowered officials of the city.
   (B)   To enforce this chapter, police of the city and animal control
officers may enter upon private property, with the consent of the property
owner or a person over the age of 18 who is in control of the property, with a
valid search warrant, or when such exigent circumstances exist that a
warrantless, non- consensual search is required.
   (C)   Police officers, animal control officers or other empowered officials
may use any reasonable means and force necessary to take control and possession
of dogs or cats found in violation of this chapter, including, but not limited
to using tranquilizer guns and devices. Police, animal control officers or
other empowered officials shall not be liable, civilly or criminally, for dogs
or cats that unintentionally are injured or killed in the process of taking
control or possession of the animals, as provided herein.
(`96 Code, § 90.06) (Ord. 1995-17, passed 11-9-1995; Am. Ord. 2006-9, passed 7-
13-2006) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   All dogs or cats taken into custody by police, animal control officers
or other empowered officials, as hereinabove provided, shall be impounded, as
provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   If the dog or cat is found on or off the premises of its owner, but is
unlicensed or at large, the police officers, animal control officers or other
empowered officials may, in their discretion, not impound the dog or cat, but,
in lieu thereof, issue a citation to the owner for owning an unlicensed dog or
cat or permitting the dog or cat to run at large. Citation can be city or
state.
   (C)   All dogs or cats impounded shall be handled and/or disposed of by the
County Animal Shelter, as provided by the regulations of that agency, by state
law or by county regulations, except that no dog or cat impounded by the
police, animal control officers or other empowered officials of the city shall
be released to its owner without written authority from the Police Department
or other empowered officials of the city.
   (D)   On written complaint of any person that a dog or cat is rabid or that
a dog or cat has bitten or attacked a person, the dog or cat shall be seized
and impounded forthwith. The district court shall hold a hearing on the written
complaint and if the court shall determine, in its sound discretion, that the
aforementioned dog or cat is rabid or has, in fact, attacked a person, then and
in that event, the Judge may order the dog or cat to be destroyed and examined
by a competent scientist or veterinarian or impounded for observation for a
designated period of time, or make any other reasonable order concerning the
dog or cat.
   (E)   Any and all expenses incurred by the city in keeping and housing of
any dog or cat after being so seized and impounded shall be chargeable to the
owner or keeper of the dog or cat.
(`96 Code, § 90.07) (Ord. 1995-17, passed 11-9-1995)
§ 95.08 INTERFERENCE WITH POLICE OFFICERS AND OTHER EMPOWERED OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
prevent police officers or other empowered officials of the city discharging
their duties, as herein prescribed.
(`96 Code, § 90.08) (Ord. 1995-17, passed 11-9-1995) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 AUTHORITY.
   The City Council is empowered to authorize the entering into an approved
compact with other cities in the enforcement of this chapter or in the
alternative may enter into an employment contract with either an organization
or an individual to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(`96 Code, § 90.09) (Ord. 1995-17, passed 11-9-1995)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter may be cited for a
violation of the city Nuisance Code, and fined up to $100 per day for the
violation of such provision; or, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
not less than $10 and not more than $500 for such misdemeanor charge.
   (B)   Each day that the violation of this chapter continues shall be a
separate and distinct offense and punishable as such.
(`96 Code, § 90.99) (Ord. 1995-17, passed 11-9-1995; Am. Ord. 2011-4, passed 3-
10-2011)
   CHAPTER 96: PARKS
Section
   
96.01   Rules and regulations
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations recommended to the City Council by the Police
Department and the City Public Works Department applicable and related to the
city’s public parks shall be and hereby are adopted and approved as follows:
   (A)   City parks will be considered open between the hours of dawn to dusk.
It shall be unlawful for any person to be on city park property without
permission after the park has closed. Permission for use of the parks or any
section thereof may be granted by the City Administrative Offices through the
permit process.
   (B)   Reservations must be made with the City Administrative Offices for the
use of the shelter, equipment, or space for gatherings and events at any of the
city parks. A deposit fee may be assessed by the Ludlow City Council through
approved fee schedule. A fee may be assessed to offset any costs that might be
incurred for cleanup at the discretion of the City Council.
   (C)   Persons wishing to use the ball fields at a city park must reserve a
date and time for such use with the City Administrative Offices through the
permitting process. Organized youth athletics will obtain permits through a
lottery system that will occur in the spring and fall of each year. A fee may
be assessed to offset any costs that might be incurred at the discretion of the
City Council through approved fee schedule.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to have a pet in a city park unless
the pet is on a leash at all times. No owner or custodian of any pet shall
cause or allow such animal to soil, defile or defecate on any property within a
public park of the city, unless such owner or custodian immediately removes and
disposes of all feces deposited by such animal by the following methods:
      (1)   Collection of the feces by appropriate implement and placement in a
plastic bag or other container which is then placed in an appropriate refuse
receptacle; and
      (2)   Removal of such bag or container and disposal thereafter in a
manner as otherwise maybe permitted by law, such as placing the container
within an appropriate refuse receptacle.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to dispose of litter in the park
except in trash containers provided for that purpose.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to operate or ride in or on any motorized
vehicles of any type, including but not limited to automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles, ATVs, mini bikes or mopeds, in any city park, without permitted
use for special events. When necessary the city may authorize parking outside
of designated parking areas to meet the needs of special events with prior
approval for requested activities in the permitting process. This regulation
shall not apply to law enforcement officers, maintenance employees of the city
or county, or any other public official engaged in the discharge of their
duties.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, or other entity to
conduct or engage in any form of trade, business or other commercial activity
or perform any type of service for consideration within a city park without the
prior written permission of the city.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to camp overnight in any city park without the
prior written permission granted by the City Administrative Offices.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to cut or remove any trees, flowers or vegetation
from within city parks without the prior written approval granted by the City
Administrative Offices. This regulation shall not apply to maintenance
employees of the city or county or any other public employee engaged in the
discharge of their duties.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display, post, distribute, or
place any sign, advertisement, circular, notice, statement, banner, emblem or
design within any park without the prior written approval of the City
Administrative Offices.
   (K)   Surfaced courts and ballfields are to be used for their intended
sports only. It shall be unlawful to use bicycles, skateboards, roller blades,
scooters, motorized vehicles, and the like on surfaced courts or ballfields. It
shall be unlawful to use skateboards, roller blades or roller skates anywhere
within the parks, except in the designated skate park area.
   (L)   The possession of glass beverage containers of any kind are prohibited
in any park within the city.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or consume any
alcoholic beverage in any City of Ludlow park. This regulation shall not apply
during the time of permitted special events where the request notes alcoholic
beverages will be consumed, and with appropriate ABC licensing.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use profane or vulgar language
while in any city park.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful for any person to mark or deface any property of
the city, including, but specifically not limited to, personal property,
equipment, real property, buildings or other improvements to real property with
paint, markers, stickers, pens, pencils, knives, or other carving implements or
any other device, within the city parks.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 8-9-2007; Am. Ord. 2017-8, passed 12-14-2017)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with the terms of §
96.01(A) through (D), (K), (L) and (N) shall constitute a violation, punishable
by fine not to exceed $250.
   (B)   Violation of the terms of §
96.01(E) through (H), (J), and (M) shall constitute a Class B Misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine not to exceed $250 and/or a term of imprisonment of not
more than three months.
   (C)   Violation of the terms of §
96.01(I) shall constitute a Class A Misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500 and/or a term of imprisonment of not more than 12 months. For
purposes of this division, each tree, flower or vegetation cut or removed from
city parks shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Violation of the terms of §
96.01(O) shall constitute a Class A Misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500 and/or a term of imprisonment of not more than 12 months. For
purposes of this division, each separate mark upon city property shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2007-6, passed 8-9-2007; Am. Ord. 2017-8, passed 12-14-2017)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   BUSINESS LICENSE FEE
         
111.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
         
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
113.   AMUSEMENTS
         
114.   GARAGE SALES
         
115.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
         
116.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
         
117.   LANDLORD AND TENANT CODE
         
118.   PAWNBROKERS
         
119.   SHORT-TERM RENTAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSE FEE
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Imposition of fee
   
110.03   Disposition of proceeds
   
110.04   Application for license certificate
   
110.05   Standards for issuance or denial
   
110.06   Display of license certificate
   
110.07   Due date; duration of license
   
110.08   Transferability
   
110.09   Multiple locations
   
110.10   Tax liability for fee
   
110.11   Delinquent payments
   
110.12   Revocation
   
110.13   Right to appeal license denial or revocation
   
110.14   Appeals
Violations
   
110.20   Responsibilities of owners
   
110.21   Inspection
   
110.22   Notice of violation after inspection
   
110.23   Repairs and other corrective action after notice of violation
   
110.24   Applications for hearing on inspection violation; appeals pertaining
to inspections or notices of violations
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Meaning of certain words. Whenever the word BUILDING, BUILDING UNIT,
DWELLING. DWELLING UNIT, PREMISES or STRUCTURE are used in this chapter, the
word used shall be
construed as though it is followed by the words "or any part thereof or any
premises accessory thereto." Words used in the singular include the plural and
the plural the singular, the masculine gender includes the feminine and the
feminine the masculine.
   (B)   Undefined words. Words not specifically defined in this chapter shall
have the common definition set forth in a standard dictionary, or the city's
Housing Code, Property Maintenance Code. Nuisance Code, statewide Building
Code, or the statewide Fire Safety Code.
   (C)   Generally. For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      AGENT. Any person who operates or conducts a business for and on behalf
of another.
      BUILDING. A fixed construction with walls, foundation and roof, such as a
house, factory, apartment building and garage.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR. Staff of the Northern Kentucky Area Planning
Commission, or other such person as is designated by the City Administrative
Officer - to include, but not be limited to. Building Inspectors, Housing
Inspectors, and Fire Inspectors.
      BUSINESS. Includes all trades, occupations, professions, or services
engaged in, carried on, or pursued in this city. Any business located within
the corporate limits of the city is construed to be transacting all business in
the city.
         (a)   The following shall be construed as a business: the rental of
residential or commercial properties.
         (b)   The following shall not be construed as a business:
            1.   Any non-profit entity that engages in a trade, occupation, or
service from which the net proceeds are used for a charitable purpose.
            2.   Any person who sells at an event sponsored by the city, School
Board, or other entity which is considered non-profit pursuant to IRC § 501(c)
(3), items created, manufactured, or assembled by that person.
      DILAPIDATED. In a state of disrepair, so that it may no longer be
adequate for the purpose for which it was originally intended.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any enclosed space wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living and sleeping, whether or not cooking and eating facilities are
provided: provided that temporary housing as hereafter defined shall not be
classified as a DWELLING UNIT. Industrialized housing and modular construction,
used or intended for use of living and sleeping purposes shall be classified as
a DWELLING UNIT. DWELLING UNIT shall not include a room in a hotel, motel,
suite hotels, or bed and breakfasts, that primarily rent rooms on a daily
basis, if properly registered as such with the City of Ludlow, County of Kenton
and the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      FIRE SAFETY CODE. The National Fire Code of 1979, and all amendments,
thereto, as the same may be amended from time to time.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor area used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping purposes, excluding bathrooms, water closet
compartments, basement laundries, furnace rooms, utility rooms of less than 50
square feet of floor space, connecting corridors, stairways, closets, storage
spaces, unheated areas, and workshops and hobby areas, the floor level of which
is more than three feet below the exterior grade immediately outside the walls
of such room.
      HOUSEHOLD. One or more individuals living together in a single dwelling
unit and sharing common living, sleeping, cooking and eating facilities.
      KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE. The statewide Building Code adopted pursuant to
KRS 198B.010 et seq., as maybe amended from time to time.
      LUDLOW BUILDING REGULATIONS. Chapter 150 of the Ludlow Code of
Ordinances, as amended from time to time.
      NUISANCE CODE. Chapter 91 of the Ludlow Code of Ordinances, as amended
from time to time.
      OCCUPANT. Any individual having possession of a premises or any
individual over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or eating in or
having possession of a dwelling unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, control, or management of a
building, or part thereof, in which building units are let.
      OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others: (1)
Shall have legal title to any premise, building, or building unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof: or (2) Shall have charge, care,
or control of any premise, building, or building unit, as owner or agent of the
owner, or any executor, administrator, trustee, or guardian of the estate of
the owner. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to
comply with the provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership,
cooperative, or governmental agency.
      PREMISES. A platted lot or part thereof or unplatted lot or parcel of
land or plat of land, either occupied or unoccupied by a dwelling or other
structure, and includes any such building or part thereof, accessory structure
or other structure thereon.
      RESIDENT. Any adult residing within the City of Ludlow.
      SAFETY. The condition of being reasonably free from danger and hazards
which may cause accidents or disease.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished by, provided by or under the control of the
owner-operator, or agent.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer, mobile home, or any other structure
used for human shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not
attached to the ground, to another structure, or to any utility system and
which remains on the same premises for more than 30 consecutive days.
      UNIT. A room or a group of rooms located within a building forming a
single habitable unit.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2002-3, passed 3-28-2002; Am. Ord.
2006-15, passed 9-28-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-5,
passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed
11-10-2016)
§ 110.02 IMPOSITION OF FEE.
   (A)   There is levied and established an annual business license fee upon
all persons doing business or conducting any business in this city. No person
shall conduct any business within the corporate limits of the city without
first having paid the established fee and having obtained the prescribed
license therefore.
   (B)   Any person engaging in a business or occupation other than the rental
of real property, shall pay an annual business license fee of $100.
   (C)   There is levied and established an annual rental license fee upon all
persons or businesses who own rental property within the city. No person or
business shall be allowed to rent out, or have occupied, parcels of real
property within the corporate limits of the city without first having paid the
established rental license fee and having obtained the prescribed license
therefor. One rental license shall be required for each rental dwelling unit.
Additionally, the city shall have authority to exercise its own regulatory
powers under this chapter, including the power to issue, deny, renew, or
suspend any rental dwelling license, with respect to any dwelling unit.
   (D)   Any person or business applying for a rental license within the city
shall pay a non-refundable application fee of $100 and an additional license
fee of$25 per unit, per building (a single family home rental fee is only $25
as it is considered one unit under this chapter) for said rental license and
said fee is to be made payable to the city of and paid directly to the office
of the City Clerk at the City Building, or other such place housing the office
of the City Administrator and/or City Clerk.
   (E)   A separate rental license fee shall be paid as directed in division
(D) for each individual parcel of real property owned by the person or business
seeking the rental license.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2007-11, passed 11-8-2007; Am. Ord.
2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10,
passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.03 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   The license fee levied and established in this chapter shall be used to
defray the city’s costs of inspecting to keep an accounting of all businesses,
to insure that all businesses in the city obtain business licenses, and to
generally fund the city’s attempts to regulate, inspect, and inventory those
businesses in the city. The funds collected pursuant hereto shall be placed in
the General Fund of the city for these purposes.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8,
passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to conduct a business in this city shall make a
written application each year to the City Clerk-Treasurer of the Kenton County
Office of License Inspector upon the prescribed form. Upon payment of the fee,
the City Clerk-Treasurer or the Kenton County Office of License Inspector shall
thereupon issue to the applicant a license certificate authorizing him or her
to carry on or conduct that business. All license certificates issued hereunder
shall be in form approved by the City Attorney or the Kenton County Office of
License Inspector and among other things shall bear on the face of thereof the
name of the licensee, the place in which business is authorized, the type of
business to be conducted, the period for which the license is granted, the date
of issue, and shall be signed by the City Clerk-Treasurer or his assistant.
   (B)   Any person or business desiring to rent out, let or lease parcels of
real property or units contained therein shall make application each year to
the office of the City Clerk upon the prescribed form. Upon payment of the fee
and inspection, if applicable, by the city, the City Clerk shall thereupon
issue to the applicant a license certificate authorizing said person or
business to conduct said business of renting, letting or leasing such property,
or unit contained therein. All license certificates shall be presented by the
business, its designated agent or the individual owner or agent, immediately,
upon demand by the city or any of its designees and/or agents.
   (C)   No person shall rent, offer for rent, or allow to be occupied any
rental dwelling unit unless the owner has first obtained a rental dwelling
license as provided herein. One rental dwelling license shall be required for
each rental dwelling unit.
   (D)   The city shall have authority to exercise its regulatory powers under
this chapter, including, but not limited to, the power to issue, deny, renew or
suspend any rental dwelling license, with respect to any dwelling unit.
   (E)   The application for any business license or rental dwelling license
shall be renewed, via written application, on an annual basis.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-8-2007; Am. Ord.
2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10,
passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.05 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a written application for a license certificate or
rental dwelling license, an investigation of the applicant’s business
reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless this investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (2)   Has committed prior violations of statutes or ordinances which
directly relate to the occupation or which the license is sought; or
      (3)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (4)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (5)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character will constitute valid reasons
for disapproval of an applications; or
      (6)   The applicant has pending against the applicant a citation from the
Code Enforcement Officer/Zoning Administrator or a finding of a violation by
the Code Enforcement Board which has not been resolved, including unpaid or
outstanding fines; or
      (7)   The applicant has had three findings of violations made against the
applicant by the Code Enforcement Board in a 12 month period preceding the
application; or
      (8)   The applicant is not current in city taxes and/or fees.
      (9)   The applicant, if not a resident of Kenton County, Kentucky, fails
to designate, in writing, to the licensing authority of the city, the name and
address of his or her agent within the city, who is authorized to receive
notice that there may be a violation of the provisions of this chapter, or for
other service of process pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   The following minimum standards and conditions shall be met in order
to obtain and maintain a rental dwelling license:
      (1)   The rental dwelling shall comply with all applicable provisions of
the Kentucky Building Code, Kentucky Standards of Safety, Nuisance Code,
Property Maintenance Code, and Zoning Code.
      (2)   The rental dwelling shall not exceed the maximum number of units
permitted by the Zoning Code.
      (3)   The rental dwelling shall not be overcrowded or illegally occupied
in violation of any applicable code.
      (4)   The rental dwelling shall not have been used or converted to any
other type of use in violation of the Zoning Code.
      (5)   The owner of the rental dwelling shall not be delinquent in the
payment of any financial obligation owed to the city, including, but not
limited to, occupational license taxes or other taxes, liens, and rental
inspection fees.
   (D)   Failure to comply with any of these standards and conditions shall be
adequate grounds for the denial, refusal to renew, revocation or suspension of
any rental dwelling license following the procedures established by this
chapter.
   (E)   When any rental dwelling license has been denied or suspended or has
failed to be initially applied for or renewed, or when the license holder has
failed to obtain a current rental dwelling license upon proper application, the
city and/or its designee shall order the rental dwelling unit vacated, giving
the tenants thereof a reasonable amount of time to arrange for new housing, not
to exceed 60 days. No rental dwelling unit shall be rented again until the
rental dwelling unit has been inspected by the city and/or its designee and the
license holder or owner is properly licensed under this chapter.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8,
passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE CERTIFICATE.
   Every person licensed to carry on or conduct a business as provided in this
chapter shall maintain his or her license certificate prominently displayed in
some conspicuous place wherein the licensed business is being conducted, or, if
the licensee shall be a transit or operate from place to place on foot or by a
vehicle, the licensee shall carry the certificate on his or her person or
displayed in the vehicle.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8,
passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.07 DUE DATE; DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All business license fees shall be due and payable on July 1 and shall
extend through the calendar year to the following June 31 of a particular year.
The tax shall be computed upon a pro rata monthly basis based on the number of
month remaining in that year’s tax period. However, no tax shall be paid for a
period of less than three months.
   (B)   The rental license must be purchased each year on or before April 15
and will be valid through April 14 of the following year. The rental license
will not be prorated.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8,
passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.08 TRANSFERABILITY.
   The license certificate provided for in this chapter may be transferred from
one person to another, only upon application by the transferor and approval of
the City Clerk-Treasurer. Each application for transfer must be accompanied by
the license certificate issued to the transferor. The fee for effecting and
recording any transfer shall be $3.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8,
passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.09 MULTIPLE LOCATIONS.
   Any person engaged in one business at more than one location within the
city, or engaged in more than one business within the city, shall be required
to pay the fee or tax and obtain a license for each location, or for each
business, or for each rental dwelling unit, if applicable, for which a license
is required hereunder.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8,
passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.10 TAX LIABILITY FOR FEE.
   Any person holding himself or herself out by sign, advertisement, or other
representation, including the use of a “For Rent” sign, to be engaged in any
business, including the rental of real property, shall be construed and deemed
actually engaged in that enterprise, and shall be liable for the fee imposed
herein. Any local agent or local proprietor of a nonresident owner of a
business requiring an occupational license shall be liable for the fee levied
upon that business the same as if he or she were the owner thereof.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8,
passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.11 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   Any fee unpaid when due and remaining unpaid for 30 days thereafter, shall
have added thereto a penalty of 10% and interest on the principle sum at the
rate of 8½% per annum from the due date until paid.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8,
passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.12 REVOCATION.
   (A)   No license certificate shall be issued or permitted to be used unless
the licensee is in compliance with all applicable ordinances of the city,
including the zoning ordinance, and all applicable state laws, including all
regulations and licensing requirements of the County Health Department. The
licensee must also be current on all city taxes and fees and not have pending a
citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer/Zoning Administrator or any
unresolved finding of violations by the Code Enforcement Board.
   (B)   Any and all licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject
to revocation by the City Council for cause without remitting any part of the
fee paid. Cause for revocation shall include the unfitness of the trade,
occupation, business, or profession due to the commission of illegal acts or
the commission of acts inimical to the public welfare, including the
maintenance of a nuisance on the business premises. A written complaint from
three responsible adults, from the Chief of Police or from the Code Enforcement
Officer/Zoning Administrator, shall constitute a nuisance. A citation issued by
the Code Enforcement Board that shall be unresolved shall also be cause for
revocation.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2006-16, passed 9-28-2006; Am. Ord.
2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10,
passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.13 RIGHT TO APPEAL LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   In case any applicant has been denied a business or rental license
certificate, or if his or her business or rental license has been revoked or
suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case may be, shall within three
business days have the right to appeal to the Code Enforcement Board from the
denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed in writing
with the City Clerk who shall fix the time and place for a hearing which shall
be held not later than 30 days thereafter. An administrative fee of $25 shall
be paid to the City Clerk for each notice for appeal.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall notify the appellant and the Code Enforcement
Board of the time and place of the hearing, in writing, at the address provided
by such license applicant or licensee, as the case may be, not less than 48
hours in advance thereof. A majority of the members of the Board shall
constitute a quorum to hear the appeal.
   (C)   The appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel.
   (D)   If, after hearing, a majority of the Board present at the meeting
declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or, fully
reinstated as the case may be; otherwise the order appealed from shall become
final.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2006-17, passed 9-28-2006; Am. Ord.
2007-13, passed 11-8-2007; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-5,
passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed
11-10-2016)
§ 110.14 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order of the Code Enforcement Board may be
made to the Kenton County District Court within 30 days of the date the order
is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a
copy of the Code Enforcement Board’s order in the same manner as any civil
action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from an order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set forth in division (A) above, the order of the Code
Enforcement Board is deemed final.
   (C)   On any appeal to the Kenton District Court, the appeal shall be a de
novo hearing pursuant to the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 2006-18, passed 9-28-2006; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord.
2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8,
passed 11-10-2016)
VIOLATIONS
§ 110.20 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS.
   (A)   No person shall let to another person for occupancy any unit unless it
is clean. sanitary, safe and complies with all applicable laws and ordinances,
including the Ludlow Building Regulations, Property Maintenance Code, Nuisance
Code, Kentucky Budding Code, and the Fire Safety Code.
   (B)   Every owner of a building containing two or more units shall maintain
in a clean and sanitary condition any shared entrances or shared stairways or
public areas.
   (C)   Every owner of a building containing one or more units shall maintain
the public sidewalks, curbs, and grassy areas contiguous to the rental property
in a safe condition free of patent defects and dangerous conditions.
   (D)   Every owner of a building containing one or more units shall comply
with the provisions of the City of Ludlow Code of Ordinances, including the
removal from the premises all brush, weeds, including ragweed, dead or dying
trees, stumps, roots, obnoxious growth, filth, garbage, trash and debris.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.21 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer, Fire Chief or his
designee, or any other authorized building inspector pursuant to §
110.01(C) shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter and is authorized and
directed to make inspections pursuant to a request from the Code Enforcement
Board, pursuant to a request for inspection made by the owner, the owner's
agent, or a tenant or other occupant: based upon credible evidence presented to
the Building Inspector of violations or non-compliance with this chapter
obtained through a lawful entry to the building or premises by a law
enforcement officer or fire personnel; in response to a complaint that an
alleged violation of the provisions of this chapter may exist; or, when the
Building Inspector has valid reason to believe that a violation of this chapter
has been or is being committed.
   (B)   The Building Inspector, as defined in §
110.01(C) is authorized to enter and inspect all premises subject to the
provisions of this chapter for the purpose of determining whether there is
compliance with its provisions. The Building Inspector may enter any dwelling
unit and the common areas used by the tenant in that dwelling unit at the
tenant's invitation without the consent of the owner or owner's agent.
All rental dwelling units may be subject to a mandatory inspection by a
Building Inspector as defined in §
110.01(C) on an annual basis or based upon any other standardized rental
dwelling unit inspection schedule not to exceed once a year or be less than
once every three years as determined by the city.
   (C)   An exterior inspection of a rental dwelling and an interior inspection
of common areas and each rental dwelling unit within the rental dwelling shall
be made where a Building Inspector, Fire Inspector or other authorized
inspector pursuant to §
110.01(C) observes the existence of any of the following rental dwelling
conditions:
      (1)   One or more broken windows, or an open area where a window should
exist;
      (2)   Visible exterior damage to the roof of the rental dwelling;
      (3)   Visibly damaged or missing gutters;
      (4)   One or more visibly damaged and/or rotting exterior stairs;
      (5)   One or more visibly damaged and/or rotting exterior porches or
balconies;
      (6)   Visibly damaged exterior walls;
      (7)   Excessive weeds or grass;
      (8)   A prohibited trash set out; or
      (9)   A violation of licensing standards pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   The owner, occupant, or other person in charge of premises, upon
presentation of proper identification by the Building Inspector, shall give the
Building Inspector entry and unfettered access to every part of the premises.
If access is refused, the Building Inspector may apply for an appropriate court
order to gain access.
   (E)   Upon notice of violation or a citation being issued, the owner of the
real property has a duty to have a re-inspection(s) performed to demonstrate
compliance with all city ordinances and state laws. There is in place a fee
schedule for re-inspection, said schedule is as follows:
      (1)   For a first re-inspection the fee shall be $25;
      (2)   For a second re-inspection the fee shall be $50; and
      (3)   For a third or subsequent re-inspection, the fee shall be $100.
   (F)   All re-inspection fees are due and payable to the city and said fees
are to be mailed or otherwise delivered to the City Clerk for the city.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.22 NOTICE OF VIOLATION AFTER INSPECTION.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector determines that any premises or
dwelling unit fails to meet the requirements set forth in this chapter, he or
she shall issue a notice setting forth the alleged violations of this chapter
and advise the owner or his or her designee, that such violation must be
corrected. This notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Set forth the alleged violations of this chapter;
      (3)   Describe the dwelling unit where the violations are alleged to
exist or to have been committed;
      (4)   Provide a reasonable time, generally not to exceed 30 days, for
corrections to be made;
      (5)   Notify the owner or his or her designee of the premises or dwelling
unit responsible for compliance with the alleged violation by first-class mail
at the address provided on the license application, or if none provided, to the
address of record with the Kenton County Property Valuation Administrator's
office; and
      (6)   State the time limit for correcting the violation, typically 30
days, and describe the procedure and time limit to apply for a re-inspection,
reconsideration or a formal hearing.
   (B)   At the end of the period of time allowed for compliance, the Building
Inspector shall reinspect the premises or dwelling unit described in the
notice.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.23 REPAIRS AND OTHER CORRECTIVE ACTION AFTER NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever an owner of any premises or dwelling unit fails, neglects, or
refuses to make repairs or other corrective action, the Building Inspector may
either apply to the court for appointment of a receiver to collect rents and
make repairs, or proceed in accordance with the ordinances relating to
demolishing dilapidated or dangerous buildings.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.24 APPLICATIONS FOR HEARING ON INSPECTION VIOLATION; APPEALS PERTAINING
TO INSPECTIONS OR NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by any notice or order of the Building
Inspector issued under this chapter may file a petition setting forth his or
her reasons for contesting the notice or order with the City of Ludlow Code
Enforcement Board (hereinafter referred to as the "Board"), within five days of
receipt of such notice or order of the Building Inspector. The petition shall
state the address where mailings pertaining to the hearing and/or appeal should
be mailed.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the petition, the Board shall set a date for a
hearing and shall notify the petitioner of such date by certified mail.
      (3)   At the hearing the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to show
cause why the notice or order of the Building Inspector should be modified or
withdrawn or why the period of time permitted for compliance should be
extended.
      (4)   After the hearing, the Board may affirm, modify, or reverse the
notice or order of the Building Inspector and may grant an extension of time
for the performance of any act required where there is practical difficulty or
undue hardship connected with the performance of any act required by the
provisions of this chapter and that such extension is in harmony with the
general purpose of this chapter to secure the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   (B)   In addition to the other remedies herein, any license issued under
this chapter may, with notice to the holder thereof, and after hearing, be
revoked or suspended by the Board, if it is found by the Board that a chronic
or criminal nuisance exists upon the property in compliance with the applicable
provisions of the City of Ludlow Nuisance Code.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-10-2016)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person conducting a business in this city without first having
paid the fee to the appropriate authority and having obtained a license
therefor, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in a sum not less than $10 nor more than $100 for each offense.
Each day that a business is conducted without having paid the license fee and
having obtained a license, therefore shall constitute a separate offense. The
violation of any provision of this chapter shall likewise be a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction thereof, the violator shall be fined in the sum of not less
than $10 nor more than $100.
   (B)   Any person or business found to be in violation of any section of the
rental license requirements as contained within this chapter shall be deemed to
have committed a civil offense and shall be fined not less than $100 per day,
per violation and not more than $500 per day, per violation until said
violations are abated. For purposes of this chapter, each day that an
individual or business is engaged in the renting, letting or leasing of real
property without having first paid the license fee to the appropriate authority
and having obtained the proper license therefor shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2001-17, passed 1-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2007-14, passed 11-8-2007; Am. Ord.
2011-6, passed 4-14-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-5, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-10,
passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-10-2016)
CHAPTER 111: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Purpose
   
111.03   Business regulations
   
111.04   Business taxation
   
111.05   Collection
 
   
111.98   Civil penalties
   
111.99   Criminal penalties
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANYBODY. Any human being, and any combination thereof, in the form of
partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated association, or
otherwise.
   APPLICABLE LAWS. The constitutions, statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations
and other laws of the United States, Commonwealth of Kentucky, County of Kenton
and any other governmental entity or agency having jurisdiction.
   BUSINESS. Any and all franchises, trades, occupations, professions or other
businesses within the meaning and context of KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281 and § 181
of the Kentucky Constitution including those renting real properties within the
city.
   BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE. A license required by the City of Ludlow,
pursuant to the police power thereof, for the purpose of regulating business
activities and operations within the City of Ludlow.
   BUSINESS REGULATORY LICENSE FEE. A fee required by the City of Ludlow for
each business regulatory license, pursuant to KRS 82.082 and the police power
thereof, to provide the funds necessary to pay the expenses of regulating
business activities and operations within the City of Ludlow, including,
without limitation, the expense of issuing business regulatory licenses.
   CITY. The City of Ludlow, in Kenton County, Kentucky.
   NOBODY. Not anybody, or no human being, or any combination thereof, in the
form of a partnership, corporation, joint venture, unincorporated association,
or otherwise.
   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE. A tax for revenue, pursuant to the taxing
authority of the City of Ludlow, including, without limitation, the authority
therefor established by KRS 82.082, KRS 92.280, KRS 92.281 and § 181 of the
Kentucky Constitution, wherein it is sometimes identified and referred to as a
power to impose and collect license fees on stock used for breeding purposes,
on franchises, trades, occupations and professions.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 7-9-2015)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to both regulate and tax those engaged in
franchises, trades, occupations, professions and other businesses, including
those engaged in renting real properties within the city.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 7-9-2015)
§ 111.03 BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Requirements. Everybody who is engaged in any franchise, trade,
occupation, profession or other business in the city, other than those who are
only so engaged as employees, shall obtain an annual business regulatory
license for that franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business;
and pay to the city a business regulatory license fee in the amount of either
$50 or that part of a multi-jurisdictional occupational permit fee, collected
by Kenton County and allocated to the city, pursuant to the provisions of an
inter-local agreement between the city and Kenton County and some other cities
therein, for a single multi-jurisdictional annual occupational permit fee of
$225, which the Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to sign on behalf of
the city.
   (B)   Prohibitions. Nobody, other than those who are only engaged as
employees in the city, shall conspire, cause, permit, promote, allow, aid,
assist, encourage or engage in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business in the city for which the annual business regulatory license
required hereby has not been issued.
   (C)   Form and content of annual business regulatory license and
application. The form and content of the annual business regulatory license
required by this chapter and the application for it shall be determined by the
City Administrative Officer; provided, however, that the application shall
include:
      (1)   Sufficient information for the identification of the persons
involved in the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business;
      (2)   The computation of the annual occupational license fee imposed by
this chapter;
      (3)   Sufficient information and inspection authorization for a
determination by the city of compliance by the licensee with all applicable
laws;
      (4)   The name in which the business will be conducted the address of the
real estate upon which the business will be conducted, and the mailing address
of the business if different from the location and the business telephone
number and the state tax identification numbers of the business;
      (5)   The name, address, date of birth and Social Security number of each
owner of the business and each partner, officer or director, if any;
      (6)   The name, residence address and telephone number of a duly
authorized representative of the business who is responsible for operating and
managing the business in the city, and a night emergency number at which some
responsible representative of the business can be reached in case of an
emergency;
      (7)   A full description of the business operations to be conducted;
      (8)   The date on which the business began or will begin operations in
the city;
      (9)   The accounting period of the business;
      (10)   The number of employees working or expected to be working for the
business in the city during the license year;
      (11)   A statement describing the circumstances of each denial,
suspension or revocation of any business regulatory license for any person
named or identified in the application;
      (12)   A statement describing the circumstances of each conviction of any
person named or identified in the application of a felony, misdemeanor for
which imprisonment or other confinement was a possible penalty, any other crime
in which moral turpitude was involved, or any other crime directly related to a
business similar to that which is the subject of the application;
      (13)   A statement as to whether any license, permit, degree,
certification or similar document is required by any applicable law for the
conduct or employment in the business;
      (14)   A statement as to whether there are hazardous material kept at the
business premises and the location thereof, and whether there are pets, guard
dogs or other animals usually kept therein and any other information which the
applicant believes would be necessary or helpful to emergency personnel
responding to a call to said premises;
      (15)   The gross receipts and hereinafter described property factor,
sales factor, and payroll factor of the business for the previous calendar
year;
      (16)   Such additional information that the City Administrative Officer
determines to be reasonably necessary; and
      (17)   A warning in the following or similar language:
      "WARNING: Statements in this application shall be made under oath, by
affirmation or any other legally authorized manner of attesting to the truth of
such statements, with the signatures notarized, according to law; and any false
statements made herein shall be punishable according to law; and may be cause
for denial of the application or the revocation of any Business Regulatory
License issued pursuant thereto."
      (18)   Information incorporated by reference. All information from any
previous application for an annual business regulatory license required by this
chapter, which continues to be accurate, may be incorporated by reference into
subsequent annual applications for the same license by the same applicant.
   (D)   Application process.
      (1)   Signature to application. Each application for an annual business
regulatory license required by this chapter shall be signed by the applicant or
an authorized representative of the applicant, who shall attest to the truth of
the statements therein, with knowledge that any false statements constitute
perjury, for which the signatory may be prosecuted and punished according to
law; and such signatures shall be notarized according to law.
      (2)   Payment of fees. Each application for an annual business regulatory
license required by this chapter shall be presented to the City Clerk/Tax
Collector, or any designee thereof, along with both the business regulatory
license fee and any occupational license fee that is due from the applicant. No
application for a business regulatory license shall be accepted or received by
the City Clerk without payment of the business regulatory license fee and any
occupational license fee due from the applicant.
      (3)   Review of applications. Each application for an annual business
regulatory license required by this chapter that is received and accepted by
the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall be immediately referred to the City
Administrative Officer, who shall review it according to the following
standards within 30 days after the receipt and acceptance thereof by the City
Clerk/Tax Collector.
         (a)   When the applicant, or employees of the applicant, are required
to have any license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document
pursuant to the provision of any applicable law for the conduct of or
employment in the business which is the subject of the application; the
license, permit, degree, certification or other similar document shall have
been duly issued to the applicant or employees of the applicant prior to the
issuance of the business regulatory license. Documentary evidence of the
issuance satisfactory to the City Administrative Officer shall be provided by
the applicant.
         (b)   The criminal record of the persons named or identified in the
application shall be considered to the extent such record includes conviction
of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or other confinement was a
possible penalty, any other crime in which moral turpitude was involved; or any
other crime which was directly related to a business of the type which is the
subject of the application. In determining if a conviction was directly related
to a business, the City Administrative Officer shall consider:
            1.   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person
was convicted.
            2.   The relationship of the crime to the purpose of the regulation
of the business.
            3.   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business.
            4.   The extent to which the person convicted has been successfully
rehabilitated.
         (c)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the
business is of a type that the operation, unless closely supervised, has a
probability of generating or resulting in criminal activity or adversely
affecting the health, safety, morals and welfare of occupants or residents of
adjoining property, the citizens and residents of the city, or will constitute
a nuisance.
         (d)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider the business
history of the applicant including:
            1.   Whether the persons named and identified in the application
have been denied or had suspended or revoked a similar license by the City of
Ludlow or any other city, county or state and the reasons therefor.
            2.   Whether complaints have been received by the city about the
business practices or responsibility of the persons named and identified in the
application, and the disposition of those complaints.
         (e)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the
persons named and identified in the application are indebted to the city for
delinquent taxes, assessments, fines or similar obligations.
         (f)   The City Administrative Officer shall consider whether the
business and the proposed location complies with all applicable law, including
without limitation, land subdivision and use, zoning, building construction and
maintenance, and fire prevention and life safety regulations.
         (g)   After review of the application in conformity with this chapter,
the City Administrative Officer shall notify the City Clerk/Tax Collector, or
any designee thereof, of either:
            1.   The approval of the application.
            2.   The approval of the application conditionally; but if the
application is approved conditionally, the City Administrative Officer shall
determine and require those conditions that are reasonably necessary to
accomplish the intent of this chapter, including, without limitation:
               a.   A requirement that the applicant post bond with surety
acceptable to the City Administrative Officer in a reasonable amount determined
by the City Administrative Officer to ensure compliance.
               b.   A requirement that a debt to the city be paid before a
specified date.
               c.   A requirement that the applicant permit periodic inspection
of certain parts of the premises or of certain records.
               d.   A requirement that certain alterations be made in the
premises before a specified date.
            3.   The disapproval the application.
      (4)   Notice to the applicant. Unless the City Clerk/Tax Collector
receives a written notice from the City Administrative Officer, within 30 days
after an application for a business regulatory license required by this chapter
has been referred to the City Administrative Officer for review pursuant to
this chapter, that the application was either conditionally approved or
disapproved, the City Clerk/Tax Collector, or the designee thereof shall issue
the Business Regulatory License that is the subject of the application and mail
it to the applicant at the address indicated in the application; and,
thereafter, the applicant may engage in the franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business described in the application, but only at the
address thereof indicated in the application, until that business regulatory
license expires or is suspended or revoked according to the provisions of this
chapter.
      (5)   Conditional approval of application. In the event that the City
Clerk/Tax Collector receives a written notice from the City Administrative
Officer, within 30 days after an application for a business regulatory license
required by this chapter has been referred to the City Administrative Officer
for review pursuant to this chapter, that the application was conditionally
approved, the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall notify the applicant thereof and
the reasons therefor identified by the City Administrative Officer, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the applicant
indicated in the application, along with a notice that the license will be
issued by the City Clerk/Tax Collector only upon receipt by the City Clerk/Tax
Collector of a written signed acceptance by the applicant of the conditions to
be performed prior to the issuance of the license. The notice shall also state
that if the acceptance is not received by the City Clerk/Tax Collector within
such time, the application will thereby be disapproved.
      (6)   Disapproval of application. In the event that the City Clerk/Tax
Collector receives a written notice from the City Administrative Officer,
within 30 days after an application for a business regulatory license required
by this ordinance has been referred to the City Administrative Officer for
review pursuant to this ordinance, that the application was disapproved by the
City Administrative Officer, the City Clerk/Tax Collector shall notify the
applicant of that denial and the reasons therefore identified by the City
Administrative Officer, by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
address of the applicant indicated in the application, with a refund of any
anticipated city occupational license fee paid with the application, and a
notice of the procedure established in this chapter for an appeal from the
denial of that application.
      (7)   Business regulatory license revocation or suspension.
         (a)   Any business regulatory license required by this chapter may be
revoked or suspended by the City Administrative Officer for any period of time
determined by the City Administrative Officer to be reasonable and appropriate
for any of the following reasons; but only after a due process evidentiary
hearing in regard thereto, for which a notice has been sent to the licensee at
the address indicated in the licensee's application, by certified mail, return
receipt requested, at least ten days prior to the hearing:
         (b)   Any false or intentionally misleading statement or information
provided in the license application.
         (c)   Any failure or refusal to perform or abide by any of the
conditions of a conditional license.
         (d)   The criminal conviction of any person named or identified in the
license application of a felony, a misdemeanor for which imprisonment or any
other confinement is a possible penalty, any other crime in which moral
turpitude is involved, or any other crime which directly relates to a business
of the type for which the license was issued. However, the consideration of
such a criminal conviction shall include:
            1.   The nature and seriousness of the crime for which the person
was convicted.
            2.   The relationship of the crime to the purposes of the
regulation of the business.
            3.   The relationship of the crime to the ability, capacity and
fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities of
the operation of the business.
            4.   The extent to which the person has been successfully
rehabilitated.
         (e)   The revocation, suspension or expiration without renewal of any
license, permit, degree, certification or similar document which is required by
any applicable law for the conduct of or employment in the business for which
the license was issued.
         (f)   The violation of any applicable law in the conduct of the
business by any person engaged therein.
         (g)   Violations of applicable laws by any person within the business
premises of the licensee, or under the control thereof.
         (h)   The revocation or suspension of a business regulatory license
pursuant to city ordinance shall be in addition to the imposition of any other
penalty prescribed by city ordinance or any other applicable law.
   (E)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any conditional approval or disapproval of an application for a
business regulatory license required by this chapter, or any suspension or
revocation of any such license may be appealed to the Mayor of the City of
Ludlow, by filing with the City Clerk/Tax Collector, within 30 days after the
conditional approval, disapproval, revocation or suspension;
      (2)   A written notice of the appeal;
      (3)   A copy of the conditional approval, disapproval, revocation or
suspension that is the subject of the appeal;
      (4)   A statement why there should be an approval without conditions, or
no disapproval, revocation or suspension; and
      (5)   An appeal fee in the sum of $200, to provide for the expenses of
conducting a due process hearing in regard thereto.
      (6)   In such an appeal, a de novo due process hearing in regard to the
suspension or revocation shall be conducted by the Mayor, or by a hearing
officer appointed by the Mayor, who shall file a record with the Mayor, with a
written recommendation regarding findings of fact, conclusions of law and a
decision based thereon. Within 90 days after the date the appeal was filed, the
Mayor shall issue a written decision in regard thereto, including findings of
fact, conclusions of law and a decision based upon a record of the due process
hearing; and the appellant shall be notified thereof by certified mail, return
receipt requested, at the address thereof indicated in the application for the
license. Unless an appeal from the decision of the Mayor is filed in the court
having jurisdiction thereof within 30 days after the decision of the Mayor, the
decision of the Mayor shall become final.
   (F)   Expiration date. Unless an earlier expiration date is provided
therein, all business regulatory licenses required hereby shall expire at
midnight on the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the end of the fiscal
year of the licensee.
   (G)   Kenton County Fiscal Court. The executive authority of the city may
contract with the Fiscal Court of Kenton County, Kentucky, for the performance
of the duties imposed by this chapter on the City Clerk/Tax Collector.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 7-9-2015)
§ 111.04 BUSINESS TAXATION.
   (A)   Levy and imposition. For the purpose of providing funds for the
general operating expenses of the city and the municipal services and functions
provided thereby, and subject to the provisions of KRS 67.750 through 67.795,
and except as provided in §
111.03(D)(3)(c) of this chapter, an occupational license fee is hereby levied
and imposed upon everybody engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other businesses in the city, for the privilege of that
engagement.
   (B)   Rate. The occupational license fee that is levied and imposed by this
chapter is at the rate of:
      (1)   Employees: 2% of all compensation earned by an employee for labor,
work or services provided in the city.
      (2)   Those not employees: 0.132% of gross receipts of everybody, other
than employees, who is engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession
or other business in the city.
   (C)   Apportionment of gross receipts. Pursuant to the authority of KRS
67.753(4), it is hereby determined that the apportionment provisions of KRS
67.753 do not fairly represent the extent of the engagement in the city of
those, other than employees, who are engaged in any franchise, trade,
occupation, profession or other business both within and outside of the city;
and, accordingly, the following described property factor is hereby added to
the payroll factor and the sales factor provided in KRS 67.753 for the
apportionment of the gross receipts of those, other than employees, who are
engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business both
within and outside of the city.
      (1)   The property factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the
average value of the taxpayers real and tangible personal property owned or
rented and used in the city during the computation period, and the denominator
of which is the average value of all of the taxpayer's real and tangible
personal property owned or rented and used anywhere during the computation
period. In the determination of the property factor:
         (a)   Property owned by the taxpayer is valued at its original cost.
Property rented by the taxpayer is valued at eight times the net annual rental
rate which is the annual rental rate paid by the taxpayer less any annual
rental rate received by the taxpayer from sub-rentals.
         (b)   The average value of property shall be determined by averaging
the values at the beginning and ending of the computation period, but the City
Administrative Officer may require the averaging of monthly values during the
computation period if reasonably required to reflect properly the average value
of the taxpayer's property.
      (2)   The proportion of the total gross receipts everywhere of those,
other than employees, who are engaged in any franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business both within and outside of the city that are
subject to the occupational license fee established by this chapter, shall be
determined by multiplying the total gross receipts thereof everywhere by the
quotient of the total of the payroll factor and the sales factor described in
KRS 67.753(2) and (3), and the property factor described in the previous §
111.04(C)(1), that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other
business had in the city during the tax period, divided by the total number of
those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other
business had in the city during the tax period . The total number of those
factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had
in the city during the tax period will always be either 1, 2 or 3. For example,
if the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business:
         (a)   Had only the sales revenue factor in the city, during the tax
period, without either the property factor or the payroll factor in the city,
the total number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation,
profession or other business had in the city during the tax period would be 1;
or
         (b)   Had both the sales revenue factor and the payroll factor in the
city, during the tax period, without the property factor in the city, the total
number of those factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or
other business had in the city during the tax period would be 2; or
         (c)   Had the sales revenue factor, and the payroll factor, and the
property factor in the city, during the tax period, the total number of those
factors that the franchise, trade, occupation, profession or other business had
in the city during the tax period would be 3.
   (D)   Exempted activities.
      (1)   Because of the undue burden of administration, no license under
this chapter shall be required of domestic servants employed in private homes.
      (2)   No license shall be required of a minister of religion who has been
ordained in accordance with the ceremonial ritual or discipline of a recognized
church, religious sect or religious organization, to teach and preach its
religious doctrines or to administer its rights in public worship, in the
performance of one or more of those duties. However, it is not intended to
exempt an ordained minister of religion from the necessity of paying a license
fee for work done or services performed in the city in activities not connected
with his regular duties as a minister of religion.
      (3)   Nonprofit, religious and charitable organizations shall be exempt
from all provisions of this chapter only as the organization shall qualify
pursuant to Section 501 (C)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as
amended.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean that employees
of churches, religious congregations or religious societies of all creeds
(except duly ordained ministers) shall be relieved from the payment of any
occupational license fee in compliance with all regulations established by the
License Inspector with respect to making returns and payment of the fees.
      (5)   All fees attached with rental licenses and any other fees derived
from rental licenses shall be deemed an exempted activity under this chapter.
This does not include any gross receipts deriving from a rental property or
properties.
   (E)   Administrative provisions. The provisions of this chapter shall be
administered and enforced by the City Administrative Officer, who is hereby
authorized to promulgate any additional regulations in regard thereto which are
not inconsistent with any state statute, or any ordinance of the city, or any
executive order of the Mayor.
   (F)   Purpose of business regulatory license fee and occupational license
fee. The purpose of the business regulatory license fees and the occupational
license fees imposed and levied by this chapter is to fund the general
operating expenses of the city, including, without limitation, police, fire,
emergency medical, public works and administrative services.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 7-9-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-9, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 111.05 COLLECTION.
   The business regulatory license fees and occupational license fees imposed
and levied by this chapter shall be received and collected by the City Clerk/
Tax Collector or by the Fiscal Court of Kenton County, Kentucky, with which the
executive authority of the city is hereby authorized to contract for those
services.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 7-9-2015)
§ 111.98 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter is hereby classified as a civil offense,
pursuant to all applicable laws and city ordinances, including
Chapter 41 of the Ludlow Code of Ordinances and KRS 65.8808, et seq. and such
classification is intended, and shall be construed, to provide an additional or
supplemental means of obtaining compliance with the applicable code sections,
and nothing contained herein or in
Chapter 41 shall prohibit the enforcement of this chapter by any other means
authorized by law.
   (B)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the civil fine to be imposed for each
offense shall be $50 for the first offense, $90 for the second offense, and
$210 for the third, and thereafter, offense.
   (C)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at the
discretion of the Board shall be from $20 to $200 for the first offense, from
$60 to $300 for the second offense, and from $100 to $400 for the third, and
thereafter, offense.
   (D)   Each section of a code or ordinance violated shall be considered a
separate fineable offense. If two or more sections of a code or ordinance are
violated, the fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same
citation. Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate offense.
Additionally, multiple offenses, whether the same or different offenses, may be
included on a single citation. Any recurring offense after the third offense
shall be considered additional third offenses.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 7-9-2015)
§ 111.99 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor crime for
which everybody convicted thereof in a court of competent jurisdiction shall be
subject to paying a criminal fine not to exceed the maximum amount of $500 as
set forth in KRS 534.050(2)(a) or a term of imprisonment not to exceed the
maximum period of 12 months as set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 7-9-2015)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
Licenses
   
112.20   Classification of licenses; fee schedule
   
112.21   Form, content of city license
   
112.22   Application; issuance
   
112.23   Approval of application
   
112.24   Denial of application
   
112.25   Transfer of license
   
112.26   Premises selling groceries, gasoline and the like prohibited from
obtaining license
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages
   
112.40   Hours
   
112.41   Compliance with regulations and prohibitions
   
112.42   Maintenance of state license
   
112.43   Display of required licenses and certain signs
   
112.44   Criminal conduct on premises prohibited
   
112.45   Conducting business with minor
   
112.46   Business to be conducted continuously; exceptions
Nude or Nearly Nude Activities
   
112.60   Definitions
   
112.61   Purpose
   
112.62   Performing nude or nearly nude activities
   
112.63   Permitting nude or nearly nude activities
   
112.64   Revocation or suspension of liquor license for violations
   
112.65   Revocation or suspension of occupational license for violations
Administration and Enforcement
   
112.75   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
112.76   Reserved
   
112.77   Suspension, revocation of license
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used herein, the words and phrases defined in KRS 241.010 and
243.015 have the meanings indicated therein.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board established pursuant to
KRS 241.020.
      CITY ABC ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed to the Office of Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administration created and established by the city pursuant to
§
112.60.
      CITY LICENSE. A license established and authorized pursuant to the terms
hereof.
      CITY LICENSEE. A person who has been issued a city license pursuant to
the terms hereof.
      KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, joint venture or
unincorporated association of persons or any combination thereof, and the
shareholders, officers, agents, servants and employees thereof.
      PREMISES. The premises described in the city license issued pursuant to
the terms hereof and the application therefor.
      STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      STATE LICENSE. A license authorized by KRS 243.020 through 243.075.
      TRAFFIC IN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any action, business or transaction in
regard to the production, storage, transportation, distribution, sale, delivery
and transfer of alcoholic beverages.
(`96 Code, § 112.01) (Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016)
LICENSES
§ 112.20 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is hereby established
a city license for each of the licenses authorized by that KRS section. The
actions, business, and transactions authorized and permitted by the possession
of a city license shall be the same as those permitted by the state license to
which said city license corresponds. The fees and expiration dates for the city
license shall be as indicated in the following schedules:
License Description Annual Expiration Fee Per Annum
License Description                            Annual Expiration Fee Per Annum
Distiller’s License                          June 30           $500
Small Farm Winery License                      June 30           $100
Microbrewery License                           June 30           $500
Brew-on-premises License                       June 30           $500
Quota Retail Package License                   June 30           $500
Quota Retail Drink License                     June 30           $600
Non-Quota type 1 Retail Drink License          June 30           $4,000
Non-Quota type 2 Retail Drink License          June 30           $800
Non-Quota type 3 Retail Drink License          June 30           $300
Non-Quota type 4 Retail Drink License          June 30           $200
Non-Quota Retail Malt Beverage Package License June 30           $200
Extended Hours Supplemental License            June 30           $2,000
Distilled Spirits/Wine Storage License         June 30           $600
Special Temporary License                      June 30           $90
Sampling License                               June 30           $100
Limited Restaurant License                     June 30           $700
Caterer’s License                            June 30           $800
Special Sunday Retail Drink License            June 30           $500
 
   (B)   No person shall cause, permit or engage in any of the actions,
business or transactions authorized by the city and state licenses within the
city without both a valid city license and a valid state license therefor.
(`96 Code, § 112.20) (Ord. 2005-7, passed 6-9-2005; Am. Ord. 2013-17, passed
12-10-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-17, passed 9-25-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-
2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 FORM, CONTENT OF CITY LICENSE.
   The city licenses authorized and established by this chapter shall each be
evidenced by a document, the form and content of which shall be prescribed by
regulation of the City ABC Administrator, provided, however, that each document
evidencing a city license shall be of the same color and designation as that of
the corresponding state license and shall comply with the provisions of KRS
243.440.
(`96 Code, § 112.21) (Am. Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-10-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-17,
passed 9-25-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016)
§ 112.22 APPLICATION; ISSUANCE.
   Subject to the limitations and restrictions described herein, city licenses
shall be originally issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer and renewed by the City
ABC Administrator upon the expiration thereof upon receipt of the following
documents and fees no more than 30 days prior to the effective date of an
original license and more than 15 days prior to the expiration date of any
license to be renewed:
   (A)   A written application therefor with the truth of the information,
statements and representations therein attested by the signature and the oath
or affirmation of the applicant. The form and content of the application shall
be prescribed by regulation of the City ABC Administrator; however, provision
for the following information, statements and representations shall and must be
included therein:
      (1)   All information required by KRS 243.390 to be contained for state
licenses; and
      (2)   The names, addresses, photographs and fingerprints of the applicant
and all shareholders, officers, agents, servants and employees thereof.
   (B)   The approval of the applicant, the application and the premises
described therein by the City ABC Administrator.
   (C)   Documentary evidence of a valid state license which corresponds to the
city license for which the application is being made.
   (D)   The applicable fee, paid in cash or by certified or cashier’s check,
for the city license which is the subject of the application.
(`96 Code, § 112.22) (Am. Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-10-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-17,
passed 9-25-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016)
§ 112.23 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   Within 30 days of the date of the receipt of the application for an original
city license and 15 days of the date of an application for renewal of a city
license, the City ABC Administrator shall, by mail or personal delivery
thereof, notify the applicant, in writing, of either the approval thereof or
the disapproval thereof and a hearing in regard thereto.
(`96 Code, § 112.23) (Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016)
§ 112.24 DENIAL OF APPLICATION.
   As is similarly set forth in KRS 243.450, the City ABC Administrator shall
not approve any application for a city license if:
   (A)   The applicant, the application or the premises described therein do
not fully comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws in regard to
alcoholic beverages;
   (B)   The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant or
employee thereof has caused, permitted or engaged in any act for which the
revocation of a state or city license is authorized;
   (C)   The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant or
employee thereof had a state license or city license which was revoked within
two years of the date of the application, or the premises described therein
were the premises or any portion thereof described in a state license or city
license revoked during the time;
   (D)   Any statement or representation in the application is false; or
   (E)   In the exercise of sound discretion, the City ABC Administrator
determines any cause or reason for refusing to approve an application
reasonably related to the purpose and objective of this chapter and the state
laws and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board. Among those
factors that the City ABC Administrator shall consider in the exercise of his
or her discretion are: public sentiment in the area; potential for future
growth; type of area involved; type of transportation available; and financial
potential of the area.
(`96 Code, § 112.24) (Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016)
§ 112.25 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A city licensee shall not assign or transfer any city license to any other
person or premises unless that person and/or premises complies with all of the
provisions of this chapter; the transfer of the license is approved by the City
Administrator; and the transfer of the state license to which the city license
corresponds is approved by the state. A transfer fee of $10 shall be paid to
the city for the transfer of the city license.
(`96 Code, § 112.25) (Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 PREMISES SELLING GROCERIES, GASOLINE AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED FROM
OBTAINING LICENSE.
   (A)   As prohibited in KRS 243.280, no city license shall be issued to sell
malt beverages at retail within or upon any premises from which gasoline and
lubricating oil are sold or from which the servicing and repair of motor
vehicles is conducted unless there is continuously maintained an inventory on
the premises for sale at retail of not less than $5,000 of food, groceries, and
related products valued at cost.
   (B)   As prohibited in KRS 243.230, no city license shall be issued to sell
distilled spirits or wine at retail by the drink or package from any premises
used as or in connection with the operation of any business in which a
substantial part of the commercial transaction consists of selling at retail
staple groceries or gasoline or lubricating oil.
(`96 Code, § 112.26) (Am. Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-10-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-17,
passed 9-25-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016)
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 112.40 HOURS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority of KRS Section 244.290 and KRS 244.480, no
distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages may be sold at retail, whether by
the drink or by the package, in the city between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m. prevailing time on any day except Sunday. On Sundays, no distilled
spirits, wine, or malt beverages may be sold at retail, whether by the drink or
by the package on Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 11:00 a.m.,
prevailing time, within the city.
   (B)   During the restricted hours set forth in division (A), no person who
has a valid city license for the sale of distilled spirits or wine or malt
beverages at retail shall cause, permit, or engage in any of the actions,
business, or transactions authorized and permitted thereby. During such times
all persons who have such city licenses shall cause the licensed premises to be
closed and vacated by all persons except the applicant and those persons
identified on the application for such city licenses or any supplements thereto
as officers, agents, or employees of the person to whom such city license was
issued. All other persons shall vacate the licensed premises and remove
themselves therefrom during such times; however, any person upon the premises
who purchased any alcoholic beverages by the drink from the licensee within 30
minutes prior to any such times may remain upon the premises for a period not
to exceed 30 minutes thereafter for the sole purpose of the consumption of the
drink purchased.
   (C)   If a separate department of such licensed premises is maintained in a
manner previously approved in writing by the City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator as being capable of being locked, closed off, and separated from
the remainder of the licensed premises and all distilled spirits, wine, and
malt beverages and all fixtures and apparatus connected with the acts of
business and transactions authorized by the state licenses and city licenses
for the retail sale of distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages from such
premises are located within such approved department, and such approved
department is continuously kept locked, physically separated, and closed off
from the remainder of the licensed premises during such times, the remainder of
the licensed premises may remain open and any lawful activity may be conducted
thereon during such times.
   (D)   All retail sellers that hold a valid license for the sale of distilled
spirits, wine or malt beverages within the jurisdictional boundaries of the
city, are hereby authorized to sell distilled spirits, wine, and malt
beverages, whether by the drink or by package, according to the terms of their
individual license, during the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:30 a.m. the following
day, on every day except for Sundays. All retail sellers that hold a valid
license for the sale of wine, spirits or malt beverages within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the city, are hereby authorized to sell distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages, whether by package or by the drink according
to the terms of their individual license, between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and
2:30 a.m. on Sundays; and between the hours of 11:00 a.m. on Sundays and 2:30
a.m. on Mondays.
(`96 Code, § 112.40) (Ord. 2004-13, passed 12-9-2004; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed
4-10-2008; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.41 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   At all times during which any person has a valid city license issued
pursuant to the provisions hereof, that person shall fully comply with all of
the rules, regulations, requirements and prohibitions set forth in this
chapter.
   (B)   A city licensee shall comply fully with all of the provisions hereof
and all of the rules and regulations of the City ABC Administrator in regard
thereto; all provisions of the state statutes and the rules and regulations of
the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard to the licensed premises
and the actions, business and transactions conducted thereon subsequent to the
issuance of a state license therefor and prior to the expiration, revocation or
suspension thereof which are hereby incorporated herein and made applicable to
all city licenses corresponding thereto, the premises described therein, and
the actions, business and transactions conducted thereon; and the city licensee
shall comply fully therewith.
(`96 Code, § 112.41) (Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.42 MAINTENANCE OF STATE LICENSE.
   A city licensee shall maintain the state license to which the city license
corresponds and fully comply with all state statutes and the rules and
regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard thereto.
(`96 Code, § 112.42) (Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.43 DISPLAY OF REQUIRED LICENSES AND CERTAIN SIGNS.
   As required by KRS 244.083, a city licensee who has a valid city retail
distilled spirits, wine or malt beverage license shall cause to be displayed in
a conspicuous and prominent place on the licensed premises each of the
following documents so that they may be seen and observed by all persons
entering the licensed premises:
   (A)   A sign or placard at least eight inches by 11 inches in size with the
following message printed or displayed thereon in 30 point or larger type:
Persons under the age of 21 years are subject to a fine up to $100 if they:
a. Enter licensed premises to buy or have served to them any alcoholic
beverages;
b. Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to purchase
alcoholic beverages; or
c. Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic
beverages.
   (B)   All valid city licenses issued therefor and the state licenses to
which they correspond. The failure to so display the licenses shall be prima
facie evidence that no valid licenses have been issued or exist and all
actions, business and transactions authorized thereby conducted on the premises
are illegal and in violation of the provisions hereof and the state statutes
and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in regard
thereto.
(`96 Code, § 112.43) (Am. Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-10-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-17,
passed 9-25-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
Statutory reference:
   Display of state license required, see KRS 243.620, 244.270 and 244.360
§ 112.44 CRIMINAL CONDUCT ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   A city licensee shall not cause, permit or engage in any conduct upon the
licensed premises by either the commission of a prohibited act or the omission
of a required act which is a crime or other violation of any law, rule or
regulation of any governmental agency having jurisdiction thereof or any
officer or agency thereof.
(`96 Code, § 112.44) (Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.45 CONDUCTING BUSINESS WITH MINOR.
   As prohibited by KRS 244.080 and 244.085, no person shall cause, permit,
encourage or engage in any of the following actions in the city:
   (A)   The possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverages by any person
under 21 years of age in or upon any licensed premises or public places; and
   (B)   The misrepresentation of the name, address, age or other
identification of any person under 21 years of age for the purpose of obtaining
alcoholic beverages.
(`96 Code, § 112.45) (Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.46 BUSINESS TO BE CONDUCTED CONTINUOUSLY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A city licensee who has a valid city license shall be permitted to
conduct the actions, business and transactions authorized thereby only upon the
licensed premises.
   (B)   When no such actions, business or transactions are conducted thereon
for a period of 90 consecutive calendar days, the city license therefor shall
become null and void and revoked by the City ABC Administrator unless:
      (1)   The city licensee is unable to continue in business at the premises
for which a license is issued due to an act of God; casualty; the acquisition
of the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain; acquisition of any private corporation through its
power of eminent domain granted to it, whether the acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary; or loss of lease through failure of the landlord to renew the
existing lease; and
      (2)   Prior to the discontinuance of business at the licensed premises or
immediately thereupon if such is due to an act of God, the city licensee
delivers to the City ABC Administrator a written statement signed by the city
licensee and verified by the oath or affirmation thereof indicating the
discontinuance of business at the licensed premises for any of the causes or
reasons described herein.
(`96 Code, § 112.46) (Am. Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-10-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-17,
passed 9-25-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016)
NUDE OR NEARLY NUDE ACTIVITIES
§ 112.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS. A business within the city, where liquor, beer or
wine is sold for consumption on the premises pursuant to a retail drink liquor
license or retail cereal malt beverage liquor license that has been issued by
the city.
   CITY ABC ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator of the city.
   LICENSE. A retail drink liquor license or a retail cereal malt beverage
liquor license issued by the city.
   LICENSEE. Any person to whom a retail drink liquor license or a retail
cereal malt beverage liquor license has been issued by the city, including the
officers and agents of the licensee.
   OCCUPATION LICENSE. The occupational license issued for the business
establishment pursuant to Chapters 110 and 111 of this code.
   PERSON. A human being, and where appropriate, a public or private
corporation, an unincorporated association, a partnership, a government or a
governmental authority.
   PREMISES. The land and building in and upon which any business establishment
regulated by the alcoholic beverage statutes is carried on.
   RETAIL LICENSEE. Any licensee, including its officers and agents, who sells,
at retail, any alcoholic beverage for the sale of which an occupational license
is required.
(`96 Code, § 112.60) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-20-1986; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed
10-13-2016)
§ 112.61 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Numerous business establishments with a retail drink liquor license or
retail cereal malt beverage liquor license from the city are providing adult
entertainment, with the possibility of nude or nearly nude dancing, for its
patrons. The City Council has determined that such conduct or activities are
injurious to the citizens of the city.
   (B)   Therefore, the City Council believes that this subchapter is necessary
for the following purposes:
      (1)   To protect property values;
      (2)   To prevent blight and the deterioration of the city’s
neighborhoods;
      (3)   To promote a climate conducive to a return of residences and
businesses to the city’s neighborhoods;
      (4)   To enhance the quality of life within the city;
      (5)   To preserve and stabilize the city’s neighborhoods; and
      (6)   To decrease the incidence of crime, disorderly conduct and juvenile
delinquency.
(`96 Code, § 112.61) (Ord. 1986-l, passed 3-20-1986; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed
10-13-2016)
§ 112.62 PERFORMING NUDE OR NEARLY NUDE ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for and a person is guilty of performing nude or nearly
nude activities when that person appears on a business establishment’s premises
in a manner or attire as to expose to view any portion of the pubic area, anus,
vulva or genitals, or any simulation thereof; or when any female appears on a
business establishment’s premises in a manner or attire as to expose to view
that portion of the breast referred to as the areola, nipple or simulation
thereof.
(`96 Code, § 112.62) (Ord. 1986-l, passed 3-20-1986; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed
10-13-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.63 PERMITTING NUDE OR NEARLY NUDE ACTIVITIES.
   A licensee or retail licensee is guilty of permitting nude or nearly nude
activities when having control of the business establishment’s premises which
he or she knows or has reasonable cause to know, is being used by any person to
appear on the premises in a manner or attire as to expose to view portions of
the pubic area, anus, vulva or genitals, or any simulation thereof; or used by
any female to appear on the premises in a manner or attire as to expose to view
any portion of the breast referred to as the areola, nipple or any simulation
thereof, he or she permits that activity or fails to make reasonable and timely
effort to halt or abate that activity or use.
(`96 Code, § 112.63) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-20-1986; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed
10-13-2016) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.64 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LIQUOR LICENSE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In the event that a violation of §§
112.62 or
112.63 occurs, the city shall forthwith conduct a hearing pursuant to KRS
243.520, in conjunction with KRS 241.160 and 241.190, to determine whether the
liquor licensee, at whose business establishment the activity prohibited by
this subchapter occurred, shall have his or her license suspended or revoked.
   (B)   In the event three or more violations of §§
112.62 or
112.63 occur at a business establishment within a 12-month period, the City ABC
Administrator, after a hearing, shall revoke the retail drink license or retail
cereal malt beverage license or both.
(`96 Code, § 112.64) (Ord. 1986-l, passed 3-20-1986; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed
10-13-2016)
§ 112.65 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In the event that a violation of §§
112.62 or
112.63 occurs, the Liquor Administrator shall prefer charges against the retail
license, pursuant to
Chapter 110 of this code, after notice and a hearing are held by the City
Council, the occupational license may either be revoked or suspended.
   (B)   In the event that three or more violations of §§
112.62 or
112.63 occur at a business establishment within a 12-month period, after notice
and hearing, pursuant to
Chapter 110 of this code, the City Council shall revoke the occupational
license of the retail licensee.
(`96 Code, § 112.65) (Ord. 1986-l, passed 3-20-1986; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed
10-13-2016)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 112.75 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   Provisions concerning the Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator are
contained in §
32.39.
(`96 Code, § 112.75) (Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016)
§ 112.76 RESERVED.
§ 112.77 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the procedure set forth in KRS 243.480 through 243.560 and
243.590, city licenses may be either revoked or suspended by the City ABC
Administrator upon the occurrence of:
      (1)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or any other
alcoholic beverage control ordinance of the city;
      (2)   Any violation of any provision of state law in regard to alcoholic
beverages or the rules and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board in regard thereto; or
      (3)   Any other cause, reason or circumstance for which a state license
may be revoked or suspended by the Board.
   (B)   However, city licenses must be revoked by the City ABC Administrator
upon the occurrence of any cause or circumstance which requires revocation of
state licenses, pursuant to KRS 243.500, or the revocation of a state license
to which a city license corresponds. Further, with the approval of the City ABC
Administrator, a licensee may, as an alternative and in lieu of part or all of
the days of any suspension period, pay the sums to the city as set forth in KRS
243.480.
   (C)   The procedure for the revocation or suspension of a city license shall
consist of a written notice signed by the City ABC Administrator and mailed to
the licensee at the address of the licensed premises by certified mail,
describing the cause, circumstance or occurrence and the time and date thereof
for which the city license may be revoked and indicating the time and place of
a hearing in regard thereto at least five days thereafter at which the licensee
and the representatives thereof shall be heard thereon. The hearing thereon
shall be conducted by the City ABC Administrator in the city and according to
the procedure prescribed by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board for
hearings by the Board as supplemented by the regulations of the City ABC
Administrator. The City ABC Administrator shall control and make all decisions
in regard to the introduction of evidence and shall hear all arguments in
regard thereto. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City ABC Administrator
shall issue a written decision in regard thereto and mail a certified copy
thereof to the licensee at the address of the licensed premises by certified or
registered mail.
(`96 Code, § 112.77) (Am. Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-10-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-17,
passed 9-25-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-13-2016)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof in a court of
competent jurisdiction, be sentenced to pay a fine for each offense or
violation of no more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates the distillers license fee provision of §
112.20 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction and in
accordance with KRS 243.990(2), be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than
$100, nor more than $200, or sentenced to imprisonment for no more than six
months, or both for the first offense. For the second offense, the person shall
be fined not less than $200, nor more than $500, or sentenced to imprisonment
for no more than six months, or both. On the third and each subsequent offense,
the person shall be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $500, nor more
than $500, or sentenced to imprisonment for not more than five years, or both.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
112.20 other than as discussed in division (B) above, or any provision of §§
112.21 through
112.26,
112.40 through
112.42,
112.44 or
112.45(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction and in
accordance with KRS 243.990(1) and 244.990(1), be fined not less than $100, nor
more than $200, or be imprisoned for no more than six months, or both for the
first offense. On the second and each subsequent offense, the person shall be
fined not less than $200, nor more than $500, or be imprisoned for no more than
six months, or both.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §
112.43 shall be guilty of a violation and shall, upon conviction and in
accordance with KRS 244.990(5), be fined not less than $10, nor more than $100.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of §
112.45(B) shall be guilty of a violation, upon conviction and in accordance
with KRS 244.990(5) and (6), be fined not less than $10, nor more than $100,
for misrepresentation of age. For use of a false, fraudulent, or altered
identification card, paper or other document to purchase, attempt to purchase,
or otherwise obtain any alcoholic beverage, the person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500, for a
first offense. For a second and each subsequent offense, the person shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $200, nor more than
$500.
   (F)   Performing nude or nearly nude activities as set forth in §
112.62 or permitting those activities as set forth in §
112.63, is a violation and punishment shall be fixed as set forth in the
Kentucky Revised Statutes. The second violation of §§
112.62 or
112.63 within a 12-month period shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor with
punishment as set forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes. Three or more
violations of §§
112.62 or
112.63 within a 12-month period shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor with
punishment as set forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-20-1986)(Ord. 1986-1, passed 3-20-1986; Am. Ord. 2016-7,
passed 10-13-2016)
(`96 Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Entering without paying entrance fee
§ 113.01 ENTERING WITHOUT PAYING ENTRANCE FEE.
   No person shall climb over the fence of any enclosure in which a football
game, baseball game or other form of amusement is or is about to be conducted,
for which an admission fee is charged, without paying the regular admission fee
charged for entering the enclosure, or shall otherwise enter the enclosure,
without paying the fee, without the consent of the owner or other persons in
charge of that football game, baseball game or other amusement.
(`96 Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 947, passed 10-13-1938) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Application for license
   
114.04   Promotion of sale without license prohibited
   
114.05   Restricting location of advertisements
   
114.06   Period of time sale permitted
   
114.07   Display of license
   
114.08   Obstruction of sidewalks prohibited
   
114.09   Provisions shall not apply to holder of occupational license
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALES, LAWN SALES, ATTIC SALES, RUMMAGE SALE, FLEA MARKET SALE or
YARD SALE. Any sale of tangible personal property not otherwise regulated in
the city ordinances, advertised by any means whereby the public at large is or
can be made aware of such sale.
   GOODS. Any goods, warehouse merchandise or other property capable of being
the object of a sale regulated hereunder.
(`96 Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 1979-5-1, passed 5-23-1980)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A license issued by the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be obtained by any
person, firm, group, corporation or organization before selling or offering to,
or advertising to sell any goods at a sale to be advertised or held out by any
means to be one of the types of sales enumerated in §
114.01
(`96 Code, § 114.02) (Ord. 1979-5-1, passed 5-23-1980) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   An application for a license for any of the sales regulated hereunder
shall be made at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer on a form to be
provided therefore, which application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of person, firm, group, corporation, association or
organization conducting the sale;
      (2)   Location at which the sale is to be conducted and the date and
nature of any prior sales conducted at the same location;
      (3)   The dates during which the sale is to be conducted within the time
limits hereinafter prescribed;
      (4)   Date, nature and location of any past sale conducted by applicant;
and
      (5)   The relationship or connection an applicant may have had with any
other person, firm, group, organization, association or corporation conducting
any sale and the date of that sale.
   (B)   A license fee of $3 shall be paid to the city each time an application
for a license is made. No more than two licenses may be issued to any single
residence or business address within the city during a 12-month period. The 12-
month period shall begin on the date of issuance of the initial license.
(`96 Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 1979-5-1, passed 5-23-1980)
§ 114.04 PROMOTION OF SALE WITHOUT LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, group, corporation or organization shall conduct, advertise
or promote any sale regulated by this chapter without a license issued pursuant
thereto.
(`96 Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 1979-5-1, passed 5-23-1980) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 RESTRICTING LOCATION OF ADVERTISEMENTS.
   All advertisements concerning the sale or sales will be restricted to the
yards, garage and household wherein the sale is to be conducted.
(`96 Code, § 117.05) (Ord. 1979-5-1, passed 5-23-1980) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 PERIOD OF TIME SALE PERMITTED.
   No license shall be issued authorizing any sale to be conducted for a period
longer than two days, but in the event of inclement weather, the period of time
remaining under the two days shall be extended until it is possible to complete
the sale during the allowable two-day period.
(`96 Code, § 114.06) (Ord. 1979-5-1, passed 5-23-1980) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   This license authorizing a sale shall be displayed in the front window or
other prominent place, clearly visible from the street, at each location where
a sale is being conducted.
(`96 Code, § 114.07) (Ord. 1979-5-1, passed 5-23-1980) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   All sidewalks, walk areas or driveways, abutting to and in front of, shall
remain free and uncongested so as to allow normal passage of traffic, both
pedestrian and auto vehicles, connected to any of the sales enumerated herein
within the confines of the city.
(`96 Code, § 114.08) (Ord. 1979-5-1, passed 5-23-1980) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 PROVISIONS SHALL NOT APPLY TO HOLDER OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE.
   The provision of this chapter shall not be applicable to any person, firm,
group, corporation, association or organization who has obtained an
occupational license in the city.
(`96 Code, § 114.09) (Ord. 1979-5-1, passed 5-23-1980) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, group, corporation or organization violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation and shall, on
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $25, nor more than
$100.
(`96 Code, § 114.99) (Ord. 1979-5-1, passed 5-23-1980)
CHAPTER 115: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
115.01   Imposition of license fee
   
115.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
115.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
115.04   Due date; interest
   
115.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 115.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(`96 Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 1984-2, passed 8-8-1984)
§ 115.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 12% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(`96 Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 1984-2, passed 8-8-1984; Am. Ord. 2007-3, passed 3-
8-2007; Am. Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-21-2019)
§ 115.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 12% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of the policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which the company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act and shall
not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided
for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228 or, premiums received by
any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS Ch. 18A for the purpose
of providing health benefits to state employees or to premiums received on
health insurance polices issued to individuals nor to policies issued through
Kentucky Access created in KRS 304.17B-005.
(`96 Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 1984-2, passed 8-8-1984; Am. Ord. 2007-3, passed 3-
8-2007 ; Am. Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-21-2019)
§ 115.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(`96 Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 1984-2, passed 8-8-1984)
§ 115.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(`96 Code, § 115.05) (Ord. 1984-2, passed 8-8-1984)
CHAPTER 116: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License requirement
   
116.03   Application procedure
   
116.04   Standards for issuance
   
116.05   Revocation procedure
   
116.06   Standards for revocation
   
116.07   Appeal procedure
   
116.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales or making deliveries;
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city; and
      (3)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an ITINERANT MERCHANT.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a PEDDLER.
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or grown
and where the goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character will constitute valid reasons
for disapproval of an application.
§ 116.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
116.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 116.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 116.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
116.04 or
116.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing and notice for the hearing shall be given to
the person in the same manner as provided in §
116.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
§ 116.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
Licensed Peddler or Licensed Solicitor, the expiration date of the license and
the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during
the time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 117: LANDLORD AND TENANT CODE
Section
   
117.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 117.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Uniform Residential Landlord and Tenant Act, as codified in KRS 383.505
through 383.705, enacted in 1984 and as amended, is hereby adopted and made
applicable to all properties located within the territorial limits of the city.
A copy of the Uniform Residential Landlord and Tenant Act is attached to Ord.
1987-7, is made a part of the permanent records of the city and is made a part
of this code of ordinances by reference, the same as if set out in full herein.
(`96 Code, § 157.01) (Ord. 1987-7, passed 6-10-1987)
CHAPTER 118: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Bond
   
118.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
118.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
118.05   Maximum interest; resale price
   
118.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
118.07   Prohibited activities
   
118.08   Enforcement
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display, at his or her place
of business, of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their
business; or who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal
property or deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 118.02 BOND.
   (A)   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the
business of a pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good
and sufficient surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of
$1,000.
   (B)   This bond shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the
provisions of this chapter and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not
inconsistent with this chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 118.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public of all persons who have left any property
that has been pawned or sold, and the names and:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in divisions (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)
(b) is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted;
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of this state when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division, “full description” includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
118.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST; RESALE PRICE.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
118.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
118.03, and for other expenses, losses and incidental costs associated with
servicing the loans.
   (B)   Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be deemed as
interest for any purpose of law.
   (C)   No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive or contract
for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the purchased, give
that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the stipulated
resale price and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50, nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
118.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$20, nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 119: SHORT-TERM RENTAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Rules and regulations for short-term rentals
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The person who is either an employee of the City of
Ludlow or its contractor, who is responsible for monitoring compliance of
dwellings with the applicable city building codes.
   LANDLORD. The person or business that owns or has the contractual ability to
provide a short-term rental.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. Any housing-type accommodation rented for 29 days or
less.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-3, passed 5-12-2022)
§ 119.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR SHORT-TERM RENTALS.
   The operation of short-term rental units is subject to the following
standards and conditions:
   (A)   The landlord must obtain an annual permit/license from the city for
each rental unit. The annual fee for each is $300. The short-term rental
permit/license must be purchased each year on or before April 15 and will be
valid through April 14 of the following year. The rental license will not be
prorated.
   (B)   The landlord must provide a copy of a current business liability
insurance policy to the city each year at the time an application for a permit
is filed, and at any time the permit/license is renewed. Failure to provide the
insurance policy will result in the city not issuing a permit to operate a
short-term rental.
   (C)   Each dwelling used for short-term rental shall be subject to
inspection by the Building Inspector prior to the issuance of an annual
business permit/license and at all renewals.
   (D)   Short-term rental units are permitted in attached single-family
dwellings, detached single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, town homes,
Central Business District housing, condominiums, and landominiums.
   (E)   Short-term rental guests shall not stay more than 29 consecutive days
in duration.
   (F)   All short-term rental buildings and units shall comply with applicable
building codes.
   (G)   Contact information for the owner(s) or manager must be posted in a
conspicuous location within each unit of the short-term rental.
   (H)   The evacuation plan must be posted in a conspicuous location within
each unit of the short-term rental.
   (I)   If the property is subject to two or more substantiated (as determined
by the Building Inspector) civil and/or criminal complaints, the Zoning
Administrator may revoke the approval of the short-term rental permit/license.
   (J)   Number of persons allowed. No more than two adults are allowed per
bedroom. A maximum of six adults is allowed per short-term rental.
   (K)   Noise Ordinance. Each unit shall comply with the city’s Noise
Ordinance. A copy of said Ordinance shall be posted in a conspicuous place
within the unit.
   (L)   The landlord is responsible for giving adjoining neighbors his or her
contact information.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-3, passed 5-12-2022)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate a provision of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of $500. A second violation and each additional violation for
the same matter is subject to a fine of $1,000. Additional violations may be
issued daily until corrected. The city may collect as a part of the legal
process its reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred to collect monetary
fines. As well, such fines may be issued as liens upon the short-term rental
property.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to seek civil injunctive relief against
any person(s) who rent(s) any rental unit in the absence of a valid rental
license and the city shall recover the litigation costs and attorney fees
incurred by the city therein. Any landlord who obtains a short-term rental
license/permit agrees that violation of this chapter constitutes immediate and
irreparable harm to the city.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 10-14-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-3, passed 5-12-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
         
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
         
132.   WEAPONS OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Trespassing around culvert drain
§ 130.01 TRESPASSING AROUND CULVERT DRAIN.
   (A)   Any use, occupancy or traffic over and upon the shoulder slope area on
the north and south sides of the openings of the new culvert drain located on
Oak Street in the city, immediately north of the old Ludlow Lagoon and on,
inside and through the culvert pipes themselves, is deemed an act of public
nuisance and trespass and is prohibited.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized and instructed to erect suitable
posting or no trespassings signs in the aforementioned area, under the
supervision of the Street Committee, and to cause sufficient patrolling of the
area in order to carry out the purpose of this section.
   (C)   City police officers are authorized and directed to take into custody
any child found to be playing, loitering, occupying or otherwise trespassing
upon the prohibited or posted area, described hereinabove, and to detain the
child at the city police station until that time as the parent, guardian or
other person having legal custody and control of the child shall arrive to
claim the same.
   (D)   The parent, guardian or person having legal custody shall be notified
of the child's detention as required by KRS 610.200 and summoned by the
investigating officer to appear at police headquarters to assist in the
completion of the investigation. If the parent, guardian or person having legal
custody fails to appear within two hours from the time the child was taken into
custody, the investigating officer shall follow the requirements set forth in
KRS Ch. 610 and other applicable provisions of the Kentucky Unified Juvenile
Code, regarding detention or release of the child.
   (E)   Unless the nature of the offense or other circumstances are such as to
indicate the necessity of keeping the child in secure custody, the officer
shall release the child to the custody of his or her parent, guardian, person
having legal custody or other responsible adult.
   (F)   If the investigating or apprehending officer is satisfied that a
violation of division (A) of this section has occurred, he or she shall cause
formal charges to be filed requiring the child and his or her parent, guardian
or person having legal custody to appear in the appropriate court to answer the
charge of a violation of division (A) above.
   (G)   If formal charges are to be brought, before a child is released to the
custody of a parent, guardian, person with legal custody or other responsible
adult, the investigating officer shall obtain a written promise signed by the
person that the person will bring the child to the court at the stated time or
at such time as the court may order. The written promise, along with the
written report of the investigating officer, shall be submitted to the court as
required by KRS 610.200.
   (H)   Any child violating division (A) of this section shall be subject to
the procedures and penalties provided for by the Kentucky Unified Juvenile
Code. Any parent, guardian or person having legal custody of a child who
violates any provision of division (A) of this section may be subject to the
financial penalty provided for in KRS 610.180.
(`96 Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 1976-4-3, passed 5-12-1976) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
131.01   Sale, transfer or possession of toxic glue
   
131.02   False alarms
   
131.03   Excessive false alarms; revocation for failure to pay penalty
   
131.04   Curfew
   
131.05   Minors riding on outside of public transportation vehicles
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 SALE, TRANSFER OR POSSESSION OF TOXIC GLUE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TOXIC GLUE. Any glue, adhesive cement, mucilage, plastic solvent or other
adhesive containing toluene, acetone, xylene, butyl alcohol, hexane, tricresyl
phosphate or other toxic ingredient.
   (B)   No person shall, for the purpose of violating or aiding another to
violate any provision of this section, intentionally possess, buy, sell,
transfer possession or receive possession of any toxic glue.
   (C)   No person shall sell or transfer possession of any toxic glue to
another person under 21 years of age, except that one tube of glue may be sold
at any one time to a person under 21 years of age, provided that the tube is
included in a kit for the assembly of a model airplane, automobile, boat or
other unassembled model or when a kit not having glue packaged therein is sold
in conjunction with the sale of one tube of glue.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall inhale, drink, eat or otherwise introduce into
his or her respiratory or circulatory system any toxic glue so as to become
intoxicated, elated, paralyzed, irrational or in any manner change, distort or
disturb the eyesight, thinking process, judgment, balance or coordination of
that person.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, that condition so induced shall be
deemed to be an intoxicated condition.
(`96 Code, § 131.01) (Ord. 1969-3-1, passed 3-19-1969) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to send in any false alarm of fire
or to, in any way, tamper with any fire alarm system or any of its
appurtenances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to break the glass in any fire
alarm box for the purpose of sending in a false alarm or to meddle or interfere
in any way with the boxes or fire alarm system in the city, except for the
purpose of notifying the Fire Department of the existence of a fire.
(`96 Code, § 131.02) (Ord. 616, passed 2-13-1919) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 EXCESSIVE FALSE ALARMS; REVOCATION FOR FAILURE TO PAY PENALTY.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that more than two false alarms per business
establishment per calendar month is a threat to public safety and convenience
and that any false alarms in excess of two false alarms per calendar month per
licensed business establishment must be prohibited by appropriate measures.
   (B)   For each false alarm over two per calendar month per licensed business
establishment, the business license holder shall be charged $100 per false
alarm as a civil penalty, payable to the city.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall certify the excessive alarms to the City
Clerk-Treasurer, who shall bill the offending license holder. In the event the
offending party fails to pay the billing, cause shall be had to revoke the
business license as well as to use other appropriate remedies.
(`96 Code, § 131.021) (Ord. 1994-3, passed 3-24-1994)
§ 131.04 CURFEW.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLOW. Either permit or neglect to refrain or prevent. It requires actual
or constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian, that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the child violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonable prudent parent or guardian
should have known the child was violating this section.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, or, as may be otherwise phrased,
any person of the age of 17 or under.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; and/or
         (d)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of
court.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry or to stay unnecessarily upon or in any
public assembly, building, place, street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to be or
remain in or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway
within the city at night during the following periods:
         (a)   Midnight to 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
         (b)   Midnight to 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
         (c)   Eleven o'clock to 6:00 a.m. Sunday to Friday.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal
custody of a minor to allow such mirror to be or remain in or upon a public
assembly, building, place, street or highway in the city under circumstances
not constituting an exception as enumerated in division (C) below during the
time periods contained in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   In the following exceptional cases, a minor in or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street or highway in the city during the nocturnal
hours provided for in division (B) above shall not be considered in violation
of this section:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
the minor;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech
and the right of assembly, provided that written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by a parent is in the possession of the minor specifying when,
where and in what manner the minor will be exercising First Amendment rights;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only after the minor's parent
has communicated to the Police Department the facts establishing the reasonable
necessity;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where the minor
resides or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the Police Department;
      (6)   When returning home by a direct route from and within one hour of
the termination of a school activity or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of the event can be given to any investigating officer of
the Police Department;
      (7)   When authorized by regulation issued by the in cases of reasonable
necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with on an
individual basis; (The regulation should be issued sufficiently in advance to
permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such as the
schools. The regulation shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
pubic assembly, building, place, street or highway permitted and the period of
time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for termination
of the activity and the reason for finding that the regulation is reasonably
necessary. The Mayor shall notify the Police Department of the information.)
      (8)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the
state authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform;
      (9)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver; and/or
      (10)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or out of the city,
including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
   (D)   (1)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor in
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway reasonably
believed to be in violation of this section shall fellow the duties of a police
officer set forth in KRS 610.200, 610.220, 610.255, 610.267 and 610.280 which
governs the taking or receiving a child into custody on a charge of committing
an offense. All other provisions of the State Unified Juvenile Code shall
apply.
      (2)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor in or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway whose parent is
believed to be in violation of this section shall confront the minor and
request the information as his or her name, age, address of his or her parent
or legal guardian.
(`96 Code, § 131.03) (Am. Ord. 4-1996, passed 5-23-1996) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 MINORS RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES.
   (A)   No one under 18 years of age within the city, who is not a passenger,
shall be allowed upon the steps of any railroad car, truck, automobile or other
motor vehicle while the same is in motion. The parents or guardian of any child
shall not permit or neglect to restrain a child from riding or playing upon or
holding onto any moving railroad car, truck, automobile or other vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of all police officers in the city to take into
custody any child or children violating the provisions of this section. Any
child taken into custody for violating the provisions of this section shall be
dealt with in accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky Unified Juvenile
Code.
(`96 Code, § 131.04) (Ord. 433, passed 4-4-1901) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
131.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $25,
nor more than $500, or imprisoned in jail for not more than 90 days, or both so
fined and imprisoned, upon conviction.
(Ord. 1969-3-1, passed 3-19-1969)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
131.02 shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $10, nor
more than $25, and the costs of prosecution; $5 of which shall be paid as a
reward to informant securing a conviction.
(Ord. 616, passed 2-13-1919)
(`96 Code, § 131.99)
   (D)   Any parent or guardian violating §
131.04 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
of not more than $500 or imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or
both.
(`96 Code, § 131.03) (Am. Ord. 4-1996, passed 5-23-1996)
CHAPTER 132: WEAPONS OFFENSES
Section
   
132.01   Discharging weapons
§ 132.01 DISCHARGING WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge within the city limits firearm or air-gun,
BB gun or any toy gun, projecting lead or missiles or shooting an arrow
utilizing a bow or other means, except in a regularly established shooting
gallery. This section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the
city from discharging a firearm in the performance of his or her duty, nor any
citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending person or property.
(`96 Code, § 132.01) (Am. Ord. 2001-18, passed 11-8-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
         
152.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
         
153.   SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
         
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
155.   TRAILER COACH PARKS
         
156.   ZONING
         
157.   FLOOD PROTECTION DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building, zoning, and electric permit fees; Board of Adjustment
Hearing fees; fines
Building Code
   
150.15   Adoption of regulations by reference; enforcement
   
150.16   Building inspection program; application
   
150.17   Appeals
   
150.18   Permits and fees
Property Numbering
   
150.30   Numbering system
   
150.31   Notification of owners and the like of assigned numbers
   
150.32   Owner to place numbers; proper display
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING, ZONING, AND ELECTRIC PERMIT FEES; BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
HEARING FEES; FINES.
   (A)   Fees adopted by reference. The city hereby adopts by reference herein
and attached to the ordinance codified herein in as if fully set forth herein
the Schedule of Fees dated January 2011, as recommended by the Northern
Kentucky Area Planning Commission (NKAPC) for the processing and issuance of
zoning permits, building permits, electric permits, Board of Adjustment hearing
fees, and fines for violations of these life safety codes when a violation of
them has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   Fees to be increased annually. In order for the schedule of fees to
continue to reflect the increasing inflationary costs of administration of the
above programs, the fees shall, on an annual basis, be adjusted by the NKAPC
and reviewed by the City Treasurer to reflect any increase that would be
necessary with the conventional application of the Consumer Price Index as
promulgated by the Kentucky Office for Local Government to these fees. Based
upon this calculation the fees shall be increased annually and this Schedule of
Fees shall be so amended by operation of this provision.
(`96 Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 20-1995, passed 11-9-1995; Am. Ord. 2002-10, passed
7-11-2002; Am. Ord. 2012-2, passed 3-1-2012)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Kentucky Building Code promulgated in Chapter 7:120, Title
815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations and the Kentucky Residential
Code promulgates in Chapter 7:125, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative
Regulations, Commonwealth of Kentucky, are hereby adopted in full as an
ordinance of the city as if set out at length herein.
      (2)   The latest editions of all other standards and codes referenced in
the Kentucky Building Code, including the BOCA Property Maintenance Code, are
hereby adopted by reference for the protection of public health, safety and
welfare in the city.
      (3)   A copy of the Kentucky Building Code is on file in the Office of
the City Clerk and the Clerk shall at all times keep a copy of the building
code for reference.
(Ord. 1984-3, passed 8-8-1984; Am. Ord. 1994-1, passed 2-10-1994)
   (B)   The Northern Kentucky Area Planning Commission shall be designated as
the local enforcement agent/agency for the Kentucky Building Code. All building
and electric code inspections shall be performed by persons certified by the
Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings, and Construction.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department and all other designated officers,
agents and employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of the standards of safety.
   (D)   The State Plumbing Inspector is charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of the Kentucky Plumbing Code.
(`96 Code, § 150.01) (Am. Ord. 2012-3, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 150.16 BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM; APPLICATION.
   Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a building inspection program is hereby
established in the city for application to all buildings, including single-
family dwellings as provided in the adopted codes.
(`96 Code, § 150.03) (Am. Ord. 2012-3, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 150.17 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Ch. 198B, is
established to hear the appeals.
§ 150.18 PERMITS AND FEES.
   Fees for permits and inspections shall be as provided for in an attendant
interlocal agreement.
(Ord. 2012-3, passed 3-1-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
PROPERTY NUMBERING
§ 150.30 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   The dividing line for the streets running generally in an
eastwardly and westwardly direction, or parallel with the Ohio River, shall be
the Cincinnati Southern Railway tracks and houses and buildings shall be
numbered eastwardly and westwardly from that point, the even numbers being
placed on the northerly side of the street, the odd numbers on the southerly
side of the street and the consecutive numbers odd and even shall be placed on
houses as nearly opposite as possible.
      (2)   On streets running generally in a northwardly and southwardly
direction, or away from the Ohio River, houses and buildings shall be numbered
from the Ohio River southwardly, the even numbers on the west side of the
street, the odd numbers on the east side of the street and the consecutive
numbers odd and even shall be placed on houses and buildings as nearly opposite
as possible.
      (3)   The space allotted to each number shall be 25 feet as a unit of
measurement.
   (B)   Houses or buildings shall be numbered in blocks as follows:
      (1)   On streets running westwardly from the Cincinnati Southern Railway
tracks as follows: From the railway tracks to Locust Street, they shall begin
with the number 1 with the railway tracks; from Locust Street to Carneal
Street, they shall begin with the number 101 at Locust Street; from Carneal
Street to Davies and Butler Streets, they shall begin with the number 201 at
Carneal Street; from Davies and Butler Streets, to Kenner Street they shall
begin with the number 301 at Davies and Butler Streets; from Kenner Street to
Adela Avenue, they shall begin with the number 401 at Kenner Street; from Adela
Avenue to Helen Street, they shall begin with the number 501 at Adela Avenue;
from Helen Street to Ludford Street and Ludford Passway, they shall begin with
the number 601 at Helen Street and Ludford Passway; from Ludford Street to
Deverill Street, they shall begin with the number 701 at Ludford Street and
Ludford Passway; from Deverill Street to Lagoon Avenue, they shall begin with
the number 801 at Deverill Street.
      (2)   On streets running eastwardly from the railway tracks they shall be
numbered as follows: From the railway tracks to Louise Court and Post Place,
they shall begin with the number l at the railway tracks; from Post Place to
Montrose, they shall begin with the number 101 at Post Place; from Montrose
Street to Audrey, they shall begin with the number 201 at Montrose Street; from
Audrey Street to Rivers Breeze Drive and Alberta Streets, they shall begin with
the number 301 at Audrey Street; from Rivers Breeze Drive and Alberta Street to
West Street, they shall begin with the number 401 at Rivers Breeze Drive and
Alberta Streets.
      (3)   On the streets running generally in a northwardly and southerly
direction, or away from the Ohio River, in that part of the city west of the
Cincinnati Southern Railway tracks, they shall be numbered as follows: From the
Ohio River to Elm Street, they shall begin with the number l at the Ohio River;
from Elm Street to Oak Street, they shall begin with the number 101 at Elm
Street; from Oak Street to Linden Street, they shall begin with the number 201
at Oak Street; from Linden Street to Church Street and Poplar Street, they
shall begin with the number 301 at Linden Street; from Church and Poplar
Streets to Laurel and Cherry Streets, they shall begin with the number 401 at
Church Street and Poplar Streets; from Laurel Street to Adela Avenue, they
shall begin with the number 501 at Laurel Street; south of Adela Avenue, they
shall begin with the number 601.
      (4)   From the River Road to the Highway and Post Place they shall begin
with the number l at River Road.
      (5)   From West Street to Montclair Street they shall begin with the
number l at West Street; from Montclair to the Highway they shall begin with
the number 101 at Montclair Street; from the Highway to Hazen Street, they
shall begin with the number 201 at the Highway; from Hazen Street south, they
shall begin with the number 301 at Hazen Avenue.
(`96 Code, § 150.15) (Ord. 738, passed 3-1-1928)
§ 150.31 NOTIFICATION OF OWNERS AND THE LIKE OF ASSIGNED NUMBERS.
   The City Engineer shall furnish the City Council with a plat showing the
house numbering scheme as herein set out, and it shall then be the duty of the
City Clerk-Treasurer to notify the owners, lessees or occupants of those houses
and buildings of the house number assigned to those houses by mailing a postal
card to the owner, lessee or occupant with the number assigned thereon.
(`96 Code, § 150.16) (Ord. 738, passed 3-1-1928)
§ 150.32 OWNER TO PLACE NUMBERS; PROPER DISPLAY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each owner, lessee or occupant of that house
or building to place the correct number assigned to the house or building, as
herein provided for, within 60 days after the passage and publication of this
subchapter.
   (B)   All houses and buildings in the city shall be numbered by the 100-
block system with numbers plain and legible and each individual figure shall
not be less than three inches in height one-half inches in stroke and shall be
placed in a conspicuous position on the front of the house or porch or building
where it can be easily read from the street.
   (C)   All houses and buildings in the city that have access to or are
adjacent to alleyways or rear-access roads shall also place the property’s
number in a conspicuous position on the back of the house or building so that
it can be easily read from the alleyway or access road; the number shall be
plain and legible and each individual figure shall not be less than three
inches in height and one-half inches in stroke.
(`96 Code, § 150.17) (Ord. 738, passed 3-1-1928; Am. Ord. 2004-9, passed 9-9-
2004) Penalty, see § 117.99
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of regulations by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council does hereby adopt by reference that portion of the Kenton
County Comprehensive Plan, as it applies to the city, as the City Comprehensive
Plan.
(`96 Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 1982-4-5, passed 5-12-1982)
CHAPTER 152: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
Property Maintenance Code
   
152.01   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
152.02   Revisions and amendments
Property Maintenance Appeals Fee
   
152.20   Fee assessed
   
152.21   Appeal
   
152.22   Fee not refundable
   
152.23   Fee paid to Clerk-Treasurer
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 83A.060(5), the most recent International
Property Maintenance Code, which was published by the International Code
Council, Inc., 5203 Leesburg Pike, Suite 708, Falls Church, Virginia, a copy of
which accompanies the ordinance codified herein, is hereby made a part of the
permanent records of the city; and the provisions thereof are hereby adopted by
reference thereto, without setting them out in full, but with the revisions and
amendments hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 152.02 REVISIONS AND AMENDMENTS.
   The most recent International Property Maintenance Code is hereby amended as
follows, with the words and numbers being added indicated by a single solid
lien between them, and the words and numbers being deleted indicated by a
single unbroken line through them, as required by KRS 83A.060(3).
   (A)   Section 101.1 on page 1 thereof is hereby amended as follows:
      101.1 Title.  These regulations shall be knows as the Property
Maintenance Code of [NAME OF JURISDICTION]; the City of Ludlow, hereinafter
referred to as “this code”.
   (B)   Section 103, on pages 1 and 2 thereof, is hereby amended according to
the provisions thereof attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   Section 106, on page 3 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (D)   Section 107, on page 3 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (E)   Section 111, on page 5 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (F)   Section 202, on pages 7 and 8 thereof, is hereby amended according to
the provisions thereof attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein by reference.
   (G)   Section 304.14, on page 10 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (H)   Section 602.3, on page 17 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated
herein by reference.
   (I)   Section 602.4, on page 17 thereof, is hereby amended according to the
provisions thereof attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated
herein by reference.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 3-1-2012)
§ 152.20 FEE ASSESSED.
   An assessment to be known as the property maintenance appeals fee is hereby
authorized and enacted, the assessment to be in the sum of $35 per application
for appeal, as submitted in writing to the code official.
(`96 Code, § 152.20) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 4-14-1994)
§ 152.21 APPEAL.
   Pursuant to KRS Ch. 424 and PM-111.4, the Board shall fix a reasonable time
for hearing the appeal and give public notice as well as written notice to the
appellant and the administrative official at least one week prior to the
hearing. All hearings before the Board shall be open to the public. The
appellant, the appellant’s representative, the code official and any person
whose interests are affected shall be given the opportunity to be heard.
(`96 Code, § 152.21) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 4-14-1994)
§ 152.22 FEE NOT REFUNDABLE.
   The fee mentioned in §
152.20 shall not be refundable for any cause, regardless of the outcome of the
decision of the Board on any application. No fee or part thereof shall be
refunded once an application has been advertised for public hearing. In
addition, pursuant to PM-111.1, the fee must be submitted along with any
application for appeal within 20 days after the violation notice, or order was
served by the code official.
(`96 Code, § 152.22) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 4-14-1994)
§ 152.23 FEE PAID TO CLERK-TREASURER.
   The fee mentioned in §
152.20 shall be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(`96 Code, § 152.23) (Ord. 1994-6, passed 4-14-1994)
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Section
   
153.01   Permit required
   
153.02   Application; content
   
153.03   Fee
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Property Maintenance Code, see
Ch. 152
   Property Numbering, see §§
150.30 through
150.32
§ 153.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any billboard or sign board of any kind or character shall be erected
in the city, the person, firm, corporation or company proposing to erect a
billboard or sign board shall first procure, from the City Council, a permit to
erect a billboard or sign board.
(`96 Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 619, passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.02 APPLICATION; CONTENT.
   Before any billboard or sign board shall be erected, the person, firm,
corporation or company proposing to erect the same shall make application to
the City Council for a permit to erect the same and, in this application, shall
state the kind, size and character of the billboard or sign board to be erected
and shall designate the location thereof.
(`96 Code, § 153.02) (Ord. 619, passed - -)
§ 153.03 FEE.
   Each application for a permit to erect a billboard or sign board shall be
accompanied with a fee of $3.
(`96 Code, § 153.03) (Ord. 619, passed - -)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   All persons, firms, corporations or companies violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than $500. Each day that a billboard or sign
board shall be erected or constructed, without first securing the permission as
required by this chapter, shall constitute a separate offense.
(`96 Code, § 153.99) (Ord. 619, passed - -)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
154.01   Regulations adopted by reference
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision regulations of the Kenton County and Municipal Planning and
Zoning Commission and all subsequent amendments thereto which are approved by
the city, are hereby adopted by reference as the subdivision regulations of the
city, and incorporated as a part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set
out at length herein.
(`96 Code, § 154.01) (Ord. 1984-3, passed 8-8-1984) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any lawful order of an enforcing
official or violating the subdivision regulations, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, be subject to a fine of not less than $25, nor more than
$500, or confinement in the County Jail for not more than 60 days, or both.
Each day a violation exists shall, in the discretion of the court, be
considered a separate offense.
(`96 Code, § 154.99) (Ord. 1984-3, passed 8-8-1984)
CHAPTER 155: TRAILER COACH PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Definitions
   
155.02   House trailers used as residences; tax
   
155.03   Statutory requirements to be met
Licensing
   
155.15   License required
   
155.16   Application for license
   
155.17   License fees
   
155.18   Posting of license and regulations
   
155.19   Registration of trailers and occupants
   
155.20   Limiting the number of trailer coach parks
   
155.21   Transfer of license
   
155.22   Revocation; reapplication
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK. Any trailer coach park.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
   TRAILER COACH. Any portable structure or vehicle so constructed and designed
as to permit occupancy thereof for dwelling or sleeping purposes.
   TRAILER COACH PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more trailer
coaches, occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of
whether or not a charge is made for the accommodation.
   TRAILER COACH SPACE. A plot of ground within a trailer coach park designed
for the accommodation of one trailer coach.
(`96 Code, § 155.01) (Ord. 1082, passed 4-27-1951)
§ 155.02 HOUSE TRAILERS USED AS RESIDENCES; TAX.
   (A)   All vehicles that are parked within the city limits and used as
residences shall be subject to the following prescribed taxation that shall be
payable yearly.
   (B)   This tax shall be collected by the Chief of Police in the same manner
as occupational license taxes are collected.
   (C)   This tax shall be in the amount as set by City Council per vehicle per
year and shall be payable immediately after the trailer has been parked within
the city limits.
   (D)   Any trailer that is placed or parked within the city after July 1 and
before January 1 of the following year shall pay therefor the full yearly tax
rate as set by City Council. Any trailer placed or parked within the city after
January 1 and before July 1 shall pay therefor one half the yearly tax for the
period remaining until July 1, the beginning of the tax year.
(`96 Code, § 155.02) (Ord. 1009, passed 6-28-1945; Am. Ord. 1025, passed 1-23-
1947) Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.03 STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS TO BE MET.
   All trailer coach parks shall meet the requirements set forth in 902 KAR 15:
010.
(`96 Code, § 155.03)
LICENSING
§ 155.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate within the city
limits any trailer coach park unless that person shall first obtain a license
therefor for the permission to so operate any trailer coach park. All trailer
coach parks in existence and in operation as such, shall obtain a license, and
in all other respects comply fully with the requirements of this chapter.
(`96 Code, § 155.15) (Ord. 1082, passed 4-27-1951) Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Applications for a trailer coach park license shall be filed with the
Chief of Police. All applications shall be in writing, signed by the applicant,
under a seal of a notary public and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the trailer park;
      (3)   A complete plan of the park showing complete compliance with §
155.15 of this chapter;
      (4)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the trailer park; and
      (5)   Any further information as may be requested by the Chief of Police
to enable him or her to determine if the proposed trailer park will comply with
all legal requirements.
   (B)   The application and all accompanying plans and specifications shall be
filed in triplicate. The Chief of Police and the City Council shall investigate
the applicant and inspect the proposed plans and specifications. If the
applicant is found to be of good moral character and that the proposed trailer
coach park will be in compliance with all the provisions of this chapter and
that of any and all other applicable ordinances and statutes, the Chief of
Police, with the consent of the City Council, shall approve the application. No
license shall be issued to the applicant, by the Chief of Police, until after
the City Council has each year, approved the application.
   (C)   Each application, in triplicate, shall be filed with the City Clerk-
Treasurer and shall be read at the next meeting of Council, following the
filing of this application with the City Clerk-Treasurer. The City Council and
the Chief of Police shall then make their investigation of the proposed plans
and specifications, and after the approval, the Chief of Police shall issue the
license to the applicant.
   (D)   If, however, prior to the first renewal of any license under this
chapter, or any future renewal of any license, the applicant shall have, in any
way, reconstructed, remodeled or in any other manner, changed the plans and
specifications of his original application, this change, including any changes
under §
155.15 of this chapter, shall be submitted to the Council and the Chief of
Police and approved prior to the renewal of any license under this chapter.
(`96 Code, § 155.16) (Ord. 1082, passed 4-27-1951)
§ 155.17 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fees for each trailer coach park shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Upon the issuance of the license by the Chief of Police, the person
operating or maintaining the trailer coach park shall pay an annual license fee
of $25;
      (2)   For a further consideration of the granting of a license under §
155.16 of this chapter, the person operating or maintaining a trailer coach
park shall pay a monthly license fee of $5 per trailer coach, based upon the
maximum number of trailer coaches used in trailer coach space during the
particular month next immediately preceding.
   (B)   The total monthly license fees so collected, under this section, shall
be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer within five days following the first day of
each and every month. The person operating or maintaining a trailer coach park
shall file with the City Clerk-Treasurer, each month, the following statement:
      I,                                                  , of the
                                      Trailer Coach Park, located at
                                                                                           
, being first duly sworn, swears that there were a maximum number of Trailer
Coaches for the month of                                  , in my park totaling
                                     trailers.
   (C)   The person filing the above statement shall have the same sworn to
before a notary public in and for the county.
   (D)   Upon the report of the City Clerk-Treasurer that any trailer coach
park has not paid their monthly license fee within the five days allowed under
this section, the Chief of Police shall issue a notice to the person to appear
before the City Council to show cause why his or her license should not be
taken up and forfeited by the city.
(`96 Code, § 155.17) (Ord. 1082, passed 4-27-1951; Am. Ord. 1963-2-1, passed 2-
27-1963)
§ 155.18 POSTING OF LICENSE AND REGULATIONS.
   The license certificate and a copy of the regulations, as contained in this
chapter, shall be conspicuously posted in the office of the trailer coach park
at all times.
(`96 Code, § 155.18) (Ord. 1082, passed 4-27-1951) Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.19 REGISTRATION OF TRAILERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the licensee, under this chapter, to keep a
register which will contain the maximum number of registered trailer coaches
using trailer coach space each month in order that an inspection may be
available at all times to check the total number using trailer coach space to
that submitted to the City Clerk-Treasurer for license fees. The licensee
hereby grants the right to inspect his register and the registration under this
section at any and all reasonable hours. This register shall not be destroyed
for a period of two years, following any 12-month period.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep a register
containing a record of all trailer coaches, owners and occupants located within
the park. The register shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of each occupant;
         (b)   The make, model and year of all automobiles and trailers;
         (c)   License number and owner of each trailer coach and automobile by
which it is towed;
         (d)   The state issuing the license; and
         (e)   The dates of arrival and departure of each trailer coach.
      (2)   The park shall keep the register available for inspection, at all
times, by law enforcement officers, public health officials and other officials
whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the
register. The register records shall not be destroyed for a period of three
years following the date of registration.
(`96 Code, § 155.19) (Ord. 1082, passed 4-27-1951) Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.20 LIMITING THE NUMBER OF TRAILER COACH PARKS.
   The number of trailer coach parks to be licensed and permitted to operate by
the city in its municipal limits at any one given time shall be limited to the
number of two trailer coach parks.
(`96 Code, § 155.20) (Ord. 1964-4-1, passed 4-18-1964)
§ 155.21 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Upon the application for a transfer of the license of any trailer coach
park, the Chief of Police shall issue a transfer, providing the transferee
meets the same qualifications as the transferor had at the time of the
submission of the application by him or her and the Chief of Police shall so
report that the transferee is of good and moral character.
(`96 Code, § 155.21) (Ord. 1082, passed 4-27-1951)
§ 155.22 REVOCATION; REAPPLICATION.
   (A)   The City Council may revoke any license to maintain and operate any
trailer coach park, under this chapter, when the licensee has been found guilty
by a court of competent jurisdiction of violating any of the ordinances of the
city or the statutes of the commonwealth; likewise, the City Council may revoke
any license to operate and maintain a trailer coach park when the person so
operating or maintaining is cited to appear before City Council to show cause
why the license should not be revoked because of any violation of this chapter.
   (B)   After conviction by any court or upon a finding of guilty before the
City Council of violating this chapter, the licensee may reapply and the
license may be reissued if the circumstances leading to conviction have been
remedied and the trailer park is being maintained and operated in full
compliance with this chapter or of the other ordinances of the city or the laws
of the commonwealth.
(`96 Code, § 155.22) (Ord. 1082, passed 4-27-1951)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
   
156.01   Regulations adopted by reference
   
156.02   For sale signs; posted zoning status
   
156.03   Sexually oriented businesses
 
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The zoning code, adopted on December 22, 1982, and all subsequent
amendments thereto, is hereby adopted by reference as the official zoning code
of the city and is made a part of the permanent records of the city.
   (B)   The zoning code shall be available for public inspection in the office
of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(`96 Code, § 156.01) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.02 FOR SALE SIGNS; POSTED ZONING STATUS.
   (A)   Every person, company or corporation who shall offer for sale by
display of sign upon or on any premises in the city any real property for sale,
shall be required to include upon that sign, in letters large enough to be
discerned from the sidewalk in front of the property, a statement of the zoning
or use thereof permitted by the zoning code and amendments thereto.
   (B)   (1)   The failure to do so is an act of omission against the public
interest, welfare and peace of the city and community and as such a nuisance
and unlawful.
      (2)   In the case of a realtor or real estate agent or firm, upon notice
by the Chief of the Police Department or other authorized city official of
violation of this section and three-days’ noncompliance thereafter, the
noncompliance and continued omission is declared to be grounds for revocation
of the realtor or real estate agent or firm’s occupational license or right to
do business in the city upon action taken by the City Council.
(`96 Code, § 156.02) (Ord. 1974-12-1, passed 12-l9-1974) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.03 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Findings.  The facts and other matters set forth in the “Whereas”
clauses that form the preamble to Ordinance 2006-4 are hereby adopted as
findings of fact in support of the legislative action of the city in adopting
this amendment to the Zoning Ordinance. Upon adoption of this zoning amendment,
these shall be incorporated into the Zoning Code by reference to the adopting
resolution.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CABARET or THEATER, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. A building or portion of a
building which provides or allows the provision of sexually oriented
entertainment to its customers or which holds itself out to the public as an
establishment where sexually oriented entertainment is available. Signs,
advertisements or an establishment name including verbal or pictorial allusions
to sexual stimulation or gratification or by references to “adult
entertainment,” “strippers,” “showgirls,” “exotic dancers,” “gentleman’s club,”
“XXX” or similar terms, shall be considered evidence that an establishment
holds itself out to the public as an establishment where sexually oriented
entertainment is available.
      CUSTOMER.  Any person who:
         (a)   Is allowed to enter a business in return for the payment of an
admission fee or any other form of consideration or gratuity; or
         (b)   Enters a business and purchases, rents, or otherwise partakes of
any material, merchandise, goods, entertainment, or other services offered
therein; or
         (c)   Enters a business other than as an employee, vendor, service
person, or delivery person.
      DAYCARE CENTER. A licensed facility providing care, protection and
supervision for children 12 years old or younger or for any individual who is
deemed mentally challenged.
      DISPLAY PUBLICLY. The act of exposing, placing, posting, exhibiting, or
in any fashion displaying in any location, whether public or private, an item
in such a manner that it may be readily seen and its content or character
distinguished by normal unaided vision viewing it from a street, highway, or
public sidewalk, or from the property of others or from any portion of the
premises where items and material other than sexually oriented media are
offered for sale or rent to the public.
      ENCOUNTER CENTER, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. A business or enterprise that, as
one of its principal purposes, offers: physical contact between two or more
persons when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
      ENTERTAINER, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. Any person paid as an employee,
contractor, subcontractor, or agent of the operator of a cabaret who frequently
appears in a state of semi-nudity at any establishment regulated by this
chapter.
      ENTERTAINMENT, SEXUALLY ORIENT ED. Any of the following activities, when
performed by a sexually oriented entertainer at a sexually oriented business
that is required to be licensed: dancing, singing, talking, modeling (including
lingerie or photographic), gymnastics, acting, other forms of performing, or
individual conversations with customers for which some type of remuneration is
received.
      ESCORT.  A person who is held out to the public to be available for hire
for monetary consideration in the form of a fee, commission, or salary, and who
for said consideration consorts with or accompanies or offers to consort with
or accompany, another or others to or about social affairs, entertainments, or
places of amusement or within any place of public resort or within any private
quarters, and shall include a “service oriented escort;” for purposes of this
ordinance, the term “escort” shall not include any person who would be
understood by a reasonably prudent person as providing “babysitting” services
or working as an assisted living companion to the elderly, hrfirm, disabled, or
handicapped, and shall further not include licensed health professionals.
      ESCORT, SERVICE ORIENTED.  An escort that:
         (a)   Operates from an open office;
         (b)   Does not advertise that sexual conduct will be provided to the
patron or work for an escort bureau that so advertises; and
         (c)   Does not offer to provide sexual conduct.
      ESCORT BUREAU, SERVICE ORIENTED. An escort bureau that:
         (a)   Maintains an open office at an established place of business;
         (b)   Otherwise operates in mil accordance with the countywide
licensing ordinance, Kenton County Ordinance No. 451.9, establishing licensing
requirements for sexually oriented businesses and service oriented escort
bureaus, as such ordinance may be amended from time to time.
      ESCORT, SEXUALLY ORIENTED.  An escort who:
         (a)   Works for (either as an agent, employee, or independent
contractor), or is referred to a patron by a sexually oriented escort bureau;
or
         (b)   Either advertises that sexual conduct will be provided, or works
for (either as an employee, agent, or independent contractor), or is referred
to a patron by an escort bureau that so advertises; or
         (c)   Offers to provide or does provide acts of sexual conduct to an
escort patron, or accepts an offer or solicitation to provide acts of sexual
conduct for a fee from an escort patron or a prospective escort patron.
      ESCORT BUREAU, SEXUALLY ORIENTED.  An escort bureau that operates in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Engages in fraudulent, misleading, or deceptive advertising that
is designed to make the prospective client believe that acts of prostitution
(as defined under Kentucky law) will be provided; or
         (b)   Collects money (whether paid in advance or paid after the
promised proscribed act) for the promise of acts of prostitution by its
escorts; or
         (c)   Uses as escorts persons known to have violated the law regarding
prostitution, and refuses to cease the use of such a person; or
         (d)   Operates an escort bureau as a “call girl” prostitution
operation; or
         (e)   Advertises that sexual conduct will be provided to a patron or
customer, or that escorts which provide such sexual conduct will be provided,
referred, or introduced to a patron or customer; or
         (f)   Solicits, offers to provide, or does provide acts of sexual
conduct to an escort patron or customer; or
         (g)   Employs or contracts with a sexually oriented escort, or refers
or provides to a patron a sexually oriented escort.
      ESTABLISHMENT.  Any business regulated by this section.
      EXPLICIT SEXUAL MATERIAL. Any pictorial or three dimensional material
depicting human masturbation, deviate sexual intercourse, sexual intercourse,
direct physical stimulation of unclothed genitals, sadomasochistic abuse, or
emphasizing the depiction of posf-pubertal human genitals; provided, however,
that works of art or material of anthropological significance shall not be
deemed to fall within the foregoing definition.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS PUBLIC. The total area of the building accessible or
visible to the public, including showrooms, motion picture theaters, motion
picture arcades, service areas,  behind-counter areas, storage areas visible
from such other areas, restrooms (whether or not labeled public”), areas used
for cabaret or similar shows (including stage areas), plus aisles, hallways,
and entryways serving such areas.
      FREQUENTLY. Two or more times per month.
      MASSAGE.  Touching, stroking, kneading, stretching, friction, percussion,
and vibration, and includes holding, positioning, causing movement of the soft
tissues and applying manual touch and pressure to the body (excluding an
osseous tissue manipulation or adjustment).
      MASSAGE PARLOR. Any business offering massages that is operated by a
person who is not a state licensed “massage therapist” or that provides
massages by persons who are not state licensed massage therapists.
      MASSAGE THERAPY. The profession in which a certified massage therapist
applies massage techniques with the intent of positively affecting the health
and well being of the client.
      MASSAGE THERAPIST. A person licensed as a massage therapist in accordance
with the provisions of Kentucky Rev. Statues § 309.350 et seq.
      MEDIA.  Anything printed or written, or any picture, drawing, photograph,
motion picture, film, videotape or videotape production, or pictorial
representation, or any electrical or electronic reproduction of anything that
is or may be used as a means of communication. Media includes but shall not
necessarily be limited to books, newspapers, magazines, movies, videos, sound
recordings, CD-ROMS, DVDs, other magnetic media, and undeveloped pictures.
      MEDIA, SEXUALLY ORIENTED.  Magazines, books, videotapes, movies, slides,
CDs, DVDs or other devices used to record computer images, or other media which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas.”
      MEDIA STORE WITH SOME SEXUALLY ORIENTED MEDIA. A retail book, video or
other media store that has sexually explicit media that constitutes more than
10% but not more than 40% of its inventory or that occupies more than 10
percent but not more than 40% of its gross public floor area.
      MEDIA STORE, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. An establishment that rents and/or sells
sexually oriented media, and that meets any of the following three tests:
         (a)   More than 40% of the gross public floor area is devoted to
sexually oriented media; or
         (b)   More than 40% of the stock in trade consists of sexually
oriented media; or
         (c)   It advertises or holds itself out in any forum as a “XXX,”
“adult” or “sex” business, or otherwise as a sexually oriented business, other
than sexually oriented media outlet, sexually oriented motion picture theater,
or sexually oriented cabaret.
      MODELING STUDIO, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. An establishment or business that
provides the services of live models modeling lingerie, bathing suits, or
similar wear to individuals, couples, or small groups in a space smaller than
600 feet.
      MOTEL, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. A hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment that meets any of the following criteria:
         (a)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of
consideration and provides patrons with sexually oriented entertainment or
transmissions, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas;”
         (b)   Marketed as or offered as “adult;” “XXX,” “couples,” or
“sexually oriented.”
      MOTION PICTURE ARCADE, SEXUALLY ORIENTED.  A building or portion of a
building wherein coin-operated, slug-operated, or for any other form of
consideration, electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still
or motion picture machines, projectors, video or laser disc players, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
      MOTION PICTURE ARCADE BOOTH, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. Any booth, cubicle,
stall, or compartment that is designed, constructed, or used to hold or seat
customers and is used for presenting motion pictures or viewing publications by
any photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital, or other means or medium
(including, but not limited to, film, video or magnetic tape, laser disc, CD-
ROMs, books, DVDs, magazines or periodicals) to show images of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” for observation by customers
therein. The term “booth,” “arcade booth,” “preview booth,” and “video arcade
booth” shall be synonymous with the term “motion picture arcade booth.”
      MOTION PICTURE THEATER, SEXUALLY ORIENTED. a commercial establishment
where, for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, or similar photographic reproductions are frequently shown that are
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas” or that are marketed as or offered as “adult,”
“XXX,” or sexually oriented. Frequently shown films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or other similar photographic reproductions as
characterized herein do not include sexually oriented speech and expressions
that take place inside the context of some larger form of expression.
      NUDE MODELING STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or semi-nudity and is to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly  depicted by other persons who pay money
or any form of consideration. “Nude model studio” shall not include a
proprietary school licensed by the Commonwealth of Kentucky or a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or in part by public taxation;
a private college or university that maintains and operates educational
programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior college, or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
      NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the areola or nipple, or the showing of the
covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state. See, also SEMI-NUDE.
      OPERATOR. Any person operating, conducting, or maintaining a business
regulated under this chapter.
      OWNER(S). The individual owner of an establishment, or if the legal owner
is a corporation, partnership, or limited liability company, the term shall
include all general partners, any limited partner with a financial interest of
10% or more, all corporate officers and directors, and any shareholder or
member with a financial interest of 10% or more. OWNER includes the spouse(s)
of any of the above individuals.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, joint-venture, association,
independent contractor, corporation (domestic or foreign), limited liability
company, trust, estate, assignee, receiver or any other group or combination
acting as a unit.
      PREMISES. The physical location at which a business operates; as used in
this chapter, the term shall include all parts of that physical location, both
interior and exterior, which are under the control of the subject business,
through ownership, lease or other arrangement.
      PRIMARY ENTERTAINMENT. Entertainment that characterizes the
establishment, as determined (if necessary) from a pattern of advertising as
well as actual performances.
      PROTECTED LAND USE.  Residential zoning district, school, religious
institution, park, library, public recreation area, or day care center.
      PUBLIC AREA.  A portion of a sexually oriented business, excluding
sexually oriented motels, that is accessible to the customer, excluding
restrooms, while the business is open for business.
      SADOMASOCHISTIC PRACTICES.  Flagellation or torture by or upon a person
clothed or naked, or the condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of one so clothed or naked.
      SEMI-NUDE OR IN A SEMI-NUDE CONDITION.  the showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point. This
definition shall include the entire  lower portion of the human female breast,
but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast,
exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other apparel,
provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
      SEX SHOP.  An establishment offering goods for sale or rent and that
meets any of the following tests:
         (a)   It offers for sale items from any two of the following
categories: sexually oriented media; lingerie; leather goods marketed or
presented in a context to suggest their use for sadomasochistic practices; and
the combination of such items constitute more than 10% of its stock in trade or
occupies more than 10% of its floor area;
         (b)   More than 5% of its stock in trade consists of sexually-oriented
toys or novelties; or
         (c)   More than 5% of its gross public floor area is devoted to the
display of sexually oriented toys or novelties.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An inclusive term used to describe
collectively the following businesses: sexually oriented cabaret or theater;
sexually oriented entertainment; sexually oriented motion picture theater;
sexually oriented motion picture arcade; sexually oriented encounter center;
sexually oriented media store; sexually oriented escort bureau; bathhouse;
massage parlor; sex shop; sexually oriented modeling studio; or any other such
business establishment whose primary purpose is to offer sexually oriented
entertainment or materials. This collective term does not describe a specific
land use and shall not be considered a single use category for purposes of the
County or any applicable municipal zoning code or other applicable ordinances.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE.  Any license applied for under the
countywide licensing ordinance, Kenton County Ordinance No. 451.9, establishing
licensing requirements for sexually oriented businesses and service oriented
escort bureaus, adopted in 2004.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED TOYS OR NOVELTIES. Instruments, devices, or
paraphernalia either designed as representations of human genital organs or
female breasts or designed or marketed primarily for use to stimulate human
genital organs.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Include:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; and
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; and
         (c)   Areas of the human anatomy included in the definitions of “nude”
or “nudity.”
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse, or sodomy. These activities include, but are not limited to the
following: bestiality, erotic or sexual stimulation with objects or mechanical
devices, acts of human analingus, cunnilingus, fellatio, flagellation,
masturbation, sadism, sadomasochism, sexual intercourse, sodomy, or any
excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the activities set
forth above with any person on the premises. This definition shall include
apparent sexual stimulation of another person’s genitals whether clothed or
unclothed.
   (C)   Prohibited uses - countywide. The following uses are prohibited in the
city and county-wide under Kenton County Ordinance No. 451.9, establishing
licensing requirements for sexually oriented businesses and service oriented
escort bureaus:
      (1)   Sexually oriented encounter center;
      (2)   Sexually oriented escort bureau;
      (3)   Sexually oriented massage parlor or any business offering massages
that is operated by a person who is not licensed as a massage therapist in
accordance with the provisions of KRS 309.350 et seq.;
      (4)   Sexually oriented modeling studio;
      (5)   Sexually oriented motel;
      (6)   Sexually oriented motion picture arcade or booth; and
      (7)   Sexually oriented nude modeling studio.
   (D)   Other uses prohibited. Because there are no suitable sites for such
sexually oriented businesses or, in accordance with the recommendations of the
consultants to Kenton County, the following additional uses are prohibited:
      (1)   Sexually oriented media store;
      (2)   Sex shop;
      (3)   Service oriented escort bureau;
      (4)   Sexually oriented motion picture theatre; and
      (5)   Sexually oriented cabaret or theatre.
   (E)   Standards for a media store with some sexually oriented media. A
retail book, video or other media store that has sexually explicit media that
constitutes more than 10% but not more than 40% of its inventory or that
occupies more than 10% but not more than 40% of its gross public floor area
shall not be classified as a sexually oriented business but shall be subject to
the following standards:
      (1)   Separate room.  The sexually explicit media shall be kept in a
separate room from the rest of the inventory of the store and shall not visible
outside the room;
      (2)   Age limit. Sexually explicit media shall be available only to
persons 18 years or older;
      (3)   Access. Access to the room shall be through a solid door, accessed
by an electronic control device monitored by the clerk or manager on duty
through direct visual control;
      (4)   Visibility. Customers and activities in the room shall be visible
at all times to the clerk or manager on duty through a video system located at
the clerk’s or manager’s counter; and
      (5)   Lighting. The area occupied by customers shall be well lit at a
lighting level of least 30 foot-candles measured three feet from the floor.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions of the zoning
code or any of the regulations adopted pursuant thereto for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $10, but not more than $500, for each
conviction. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, owner or agent who violates this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100, nor
more than $500, for each lot or parcel which was the subject of sale or
transfer or a contract for sale or transfer.
(KRS 100.991(1), (2))
CHAPTER 157: FLOOD PROTECTION DEVELOPMENT CONTROLS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Statutory authorization
   
157.02   Findings of fact
   
157.03   Statement of purpose
   
157.04   Objectives
   
157.05   Definitions
   
157.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
157.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
157.08   Establishment of development permit
   
157.09   Compliance
   
157.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
157.11   Interpretation
   
157.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
157.13   Enforcement; violation notice
Administration
   
157.20   Designation of local administrator
   
157.21   Establishment of development permit
   
157.22   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
157.30   General construction standards
   
157.31   Specific standards
   
157.32   Standard for streams without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways
   
157.33   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
157.34   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
157.35   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
157.36   Critical facilities
Appeals and Variance Procedures
   
157.45   Nature of variances
   
157.46   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board
   
157.47   Duties of Board of Adjustment
   
157.48   Variance procedures
   
157.49   Conditions for variances
   
157.50   Variance notification
   
157.51   Historic structures
 
   
157.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS 151.230 delegated
to local government units the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
Therefore, the legislative body of the city of Ludlow, Kentucky, hereby adopts
the following floodplain management chapter, as follows.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
Editor’s note:
   KRS 151.230 was repealed by 2023 Ky. Acts ch. 159, sec. 13, effective June
29, 2023.
§ 157.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increased flood height and velocity, and by the location
in flood hazard areas of uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to other lands
which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from
flood damage.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private loss due to flooding by
provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood height or velocity;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines; streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard or other flood-prone areas in such
a manner as to minimize future flood blighted areas caused by flooding;
   (G)   Ensure that potential homebuyers are on notice that property is in a
Special Flood Hazard Area; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy a Special Flood Hazard Area assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Special Flood Hazard Areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are not determined.
   A99 ZONE. That part of the SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood which is to
be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction. No base flood elevations are determined.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
accessory structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns,
and hay sheds.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter or height of a structure.
   AE ZONES. Special Flood Hazard Areas inundated by the 1% annual chance flood
(100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs) are determined.
   AH ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where depths are between one
and three feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood elevations are determined.
   AO ZONE. An area of 100-year shallow flooding where water depth is between
one and three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain). Flood depths are
determined.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the Floodplain
Administrator's ruling on a request for a variance.
   AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, AND AR/A ZONES. Special Flood Hazard Areas
(SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited flood
protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-
year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete these
areas will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one to three
feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD. A flood which has a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year (also called the "100-year flood"). Base flood is the term used
throughout this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/
AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a
1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See definition for STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA). An area that has been determined by the
Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. This includes areas downstream from dams.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the regular
program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop
extra measures for protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. Critical facilities include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   D ZONE. An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. For insurance proposes, a non-basement structure built
to have the lowest floor elevated above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The initial phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at subsidized
rates on all insurable structures in that community before the effective date
of the initial FIRM.
   ENCLOSURE. That portion of a structure below the lowest floor used solely
for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the structure.
   ENCROACHMENT. The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. Existing construction may also be referred to
as existing structures.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 0.2% chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the 500-year flood have a moderate
risk of flooding.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      (3)   Mudslides which are proximately caused by flooding and are akin to
a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas,
as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of
the current.
      (4)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the
regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) has delineated special flood hazard areas and risk
premium zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) containing flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water
surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by flood waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed by the community to
administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other applications of
police power, which control development in flood-prone areas. This term
describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, the FEMA form in effect at the time of certification
stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant utilities and
sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all structural
components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic flood forces,
including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact forces.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway.
   FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION. As related in §§
157.45 through
157.51, Appeals and Variance Procedures, of this chapter, means that the
variance granted must not cause fraud on or victimization of the public. In
examining this requirement, the city will consider the fact that every newly
constructed structure adds to government responsibilities and remains a part of
the community for 50 to 100 years. Structures that are permitted to be
constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during all those years
to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the property
and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs, inconvenience,
danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages may incur. In
addition, future owners may purchase the property, unaware that it is subject
to potential flood damage, and can be insured only at very high flood insurance
rates.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, and the like.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY. A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HAZARD POTENTIAL. The possible adverse incremental consequences that result
from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g. safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Increased cost of compliance coverage
means under the standard flood insurance policy the cost to repair a
substantially flood damaged building that exceeds the minimal repair cost and
that is required to bring a substantially damaged building into compliance with
the local flood damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are
floodproofing (nonresidential), relocation, elevation, demolition, or any
combination thereof. ICC COVERAGE is available on residential and non-
residential buildings (this category includes public or government buildings,
such as schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official FEMA determination, by letter, to
amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's include the following
categories:
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was inadvertently included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data that,
usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood elevations,
floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION - BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation of the sidewalk, patio, attached
garage, deck support, basement entryway or grade immediately next to the
structure and after the completion of construction.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required utilities. The
term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar transportable
structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to
be improved property. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a
recreational vehicle (see RECREATIONAL VEHICLE).
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP. The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number on a flood map, followed by a letter
suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four digits represent the map panel. The
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The property value (as agreed between a willing buyer and
seller), excluding the value of the land as established by what the local real
estate market will bear. Market value of the structure can be established by
independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated by age of
structure (actual cash value) or adjusted assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL). The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on the community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the costs of
disaster response and recovery.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow,
or innundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM'S. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six months duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD). As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM'S and Digitally Referenced FIRM'S
(DFIRM's). (Refer to FIRM or DFIRM panel legend for correct datum.)
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (see BASE FLOOD). The flood that has
a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any
flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to inundation by the 100-
year flood. Over the life of a 30-year loan, there is a 26% chance of
experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. A community that voluntarily elects to participate
in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management regulations that
are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred after December 31, 1974, or on or after
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. New construction or substantial improvements for
which start of construction occurred on or before December 31, 1974, or before
the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A FEMA imposed change in community's status resulting from
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of
any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP where
more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and higher
amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and flood elevations
determined in the FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See BASE FLOOD.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations,
or reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   REPETITIVE LOSS PROPERTY. Any insurable building for which two or more
claims of more than $1,000 were paid by the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) within any rolling ten-year period, since 1978. At least two of the
claims must be more than ten days apart but, within ten years of each other. A
RL property may or may not be currently insured by the NFIP.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   SEVERE REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any insured property that has met at least one of the following
paid flood loss criteria since 1978, regardless of ownership:
         (a)   Four or more separate claim payments of more than $5,000 each
(including building and contents payments); or
         (b)   Two or more separate claim payments (building payments only)
where the total of the payments exceeds the current market value of the
property.
      (2)   In either case, two of the claim payments must have occurred within
ten years of each other. Multiple losses at the same location within ten days
of each other are counted as one loss, with the payment amounts added together.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). That portion of the floodplain subject to
inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown on a
FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1 - A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION (includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development). The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; the installation on
the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or development,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels.
   SUBROGATION. A legal action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid
out where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to it's before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, taking place during a one-year period in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   SUSPENSION. Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP.
   UTILITIES. Include, but not limited to, electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment that service the structure and the
site.
   VARIANCE. Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply with
this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   WATERSHED. All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   X (SHADED) AND B ZONES. Areas of the 0.2% annual chance (500-year) flood
that are outside of the SFHA, areas subject to the 100-year flood with average
depths of less than one foot or with contributing drainage area less than one
square mile, and areas protected by levees from the base flood.
   X (UNSHADED) AND C ZONES. Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA), areas
applicable to KRS 151.250 and, as determined by the Floodplain Administrator or
other delegated, designated, or qualified community official as determined by
the legislative body of the City of Ludlow from available technical studies,
historical information, and other available and reliable sources, areas within
the jurisdiction of the legislative body of the City of Ludlow which may be
subject to periodic inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of Ludlow.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Kenton County,
dated May 16, 2013, with the accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS),
other supporting data and any subsequent amendments thereto, are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations by the City of
Ludlow, and for those land areas acquired by the City of Ludlow through
annexation. This FIS and attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability
of this chapter and may be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow
implementation of this chapter and which are recommended to the City Council by
the Floodplain Administrator and are enacted by City Council pursuant to
statutes governing land use management regulations. The FIS and/or FIRM are
permanent records of the City of Ludlow and are on file and available for
review by the public during regular business hours at the NKAPC offices at 2332
Royal Drive, Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, 41091.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
157.21 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the legislative body from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the Local Floodplain Administrator of
the City of Ludlow, any officer or employee, thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.13 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain development permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed. See below.
   (C)   Notice of citation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain development permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator may issue a
citation to the offender stating the violation, prior notices of violation
issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the development into
conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and within what
period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or penalties are
recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is
issued shall respond to the citation within seven days of the date the citation
is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections set forth in the
citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting a
hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the citation is issued
does not respond to the citation within seven days, that person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.20 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The legislative body of the City of Ludlow will appoint a City Floodplain
Administrator to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions, and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.21 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
156.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of Floodplain
Administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §§
157.31(B) and
157.33(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to Mean Sea Level. In AE, A1-30, AH, and A
zones where the community has adopted a regulatory Base Flood Elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make the corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.22 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed,
authorized and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Permit review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
         (a)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those governmental agencies from which approval is required by
federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334;
         (c)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY
AFFECTS means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Review and use of any other base flood data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
157.07, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
157.30 through
157.36. Any such information shall be submitted to the legislative body for
adoption.
      (3)   Notification of other agencies.
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse;
         (b)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA); and
         (c)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
      (4)   Documentation of floodplain development. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
         (a)   Certification required by §
157.31(A) a (lowest floor elevations) as shown on an accurately completed and
certified Elevation Certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in
relation to Mean Sea Level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of ail new
and substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
157.21(B);
         (b)   Certification required by §
157.31(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
an accurately completed and certified FEMA floodprooofing certificate. Verify
and record the actual elevation (in relation to Mean Sea Level) to which the
new and substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in
accordance with §
157.21(A);
         (c)   Certification required by §
157.31(C) (elevated structures);
         (d)   Certification of elevation required by §
157.34(A) (subdivision standards);
         (e)   Certification required by §
157.31(E) (floodway encroachments);
         (f)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
maintained;
         (g)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance; and
         (h)   Remedial action. Take action to remedy violations of this
chapter as specified in §
157.13.
      (5)   Map determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions.
         (a)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
157.47(A);
         (b)   When base flood elevation data and floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with §
157.07, then the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonable
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state, or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
157.30 through
157.36;
         (c)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
157.31(B), a floodproofing certificate;
         (d)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall
be maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open
for public inspection.
      (6)   Right of entry.
         (a)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the Floodplain Administrator has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any
premises any condition or ordinance violation which makes such building,
structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Floodplain
Administrator may enter such building, structure or premises at all reasonable
times to inspect the same or perform any duty imposed upon the Floodplain
Administrator by this chapter.
         (b)   If such structure or premises are occupied, the Floodplain
Administrator shall first present proper credentials and request entry. If such
building, structure, or premises are unoccupied, he or she shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or control
of such request entry.
         (c)   If entry is refused, the Floodplain Administrator shall have
recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
         (d)   When the Floodplain Administrator shall have first obtained a
proper inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no
owner or occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any
building, structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is
made as herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the Floodplain
Administrator for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this
chapter.
      (7)   Stop work orders. Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator,
work on any building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the
provisions of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in
writing and shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her
agent, or to the person performing the work, and shall state the conditions
under which work may be resumed.
      (8)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
      (9)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the Floodplain
Administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not thereby render personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of
any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit
brought against any officer, employee, or member because of such act performed
by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this chapter shall be
defended by the department of law until the final termination of the
proceedings.
      (10)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
development permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
start of construction has not occurred within 180 calendar days from the date
of its issuance.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 157.30 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter; and
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if the non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.31 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
157.07, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated
no lower than two feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation
perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to
facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic flood forces on walls shall be
provided in accordance with standards of §
157.31(C).
      (1)   In an AO Zone, the lowest floor shall be elevated above the highest
adjacent grade to a height equal to or higher than the depth number specified
in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent
grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   In an A Zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include, but are not limited to, detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses,
use of existing data available from other sources, approximate methods, use of
historical data, best supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data
can be produced. The lowest floor shall be elevated no lower than two feet
above such base flood elevation. Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative
Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060, Section 5(5)a, states as a part of the
technical requirements for a state floodplain permit: The applicant shall
provide cross sections for determining floodway boundaries (and thereby Base
Flood Elevations) at any proposed construction site where FEMA maps are not
available. All cross sections shall be referenced to mean sea level and shall
have vertical error tolerances of no more than + five-tenths (0.5) foot. Cross
sections elevations shall be taken at those points which represent significant
breaks in slope and at points where hydraulic characteristics of the base
floodplain change. Each cross section shall extend across the entire base
floodplain and shall be in the number and at the locations specified by the
cabinet. If necessary to ensure that significant flood damage will not occur,
the cabinet may require additional cross sections or specific site elevations
which extend beyond those needed for making routine regulatory floodway
boundary calculations.
      (3)   In all other zones, elevated two feet above the base flood
elevation. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with §
157.31(A) or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed to an elevation two feet above the level of the
base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy and debris;
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this section are satisfied. Such certification along with the
design and operational maintenance plans shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator;
      (4)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in §
157.31(D); and
      (5)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (including basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials to an
elevation two feet above the base flood elevation, and shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwater. Openings for meeting this requirement
must meet or exceed the standards of §
157.31(C).
   (C)   Elevated structures. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings that include fully enclosed
areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the lowest floor
shall be designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow for
the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Openings for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door), limited storage of maintenance equipment
used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or entry to the
living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be finished
or partitioned into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   (a)   All new and substantially improved manufactured homes placed
on sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring. Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions; or
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; and
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of
a flood;
         (b)   All such manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than two feet above
the level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   (a)   Except manufactured homes that have incurred substantial
damage as a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated
so that:
         (b)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either the:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than two feet above the base flood elevation; or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than 36 inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for manufactured homes.
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle
regulations, is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
157.07, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If §
157.31(E) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements and
other proposed new development shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
157.30 through
157.36.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.32 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
157.07, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that
the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community. The engineering certification should be supported by technical data
that conforms to standard hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
157.07.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.33 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES.
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
157.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have flood
hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet (1 - 3'), where
a clearly defined channel does not exist and the water path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall:
      (2)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one foot so that
any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
Certification is required as stated in §
157.31(D).
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.34 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard area and the
elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not
available, base flood elevation and floodway data for subdivision proposals and
other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.35 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER “A”.
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated “A”
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist flotation and lateral movement;
   (C)   Must be provided with flood openings in accordance with the standards
of §
157.31(C);
   (D)   Must be built of flood resistant materials to two feet above the base
flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities two feet above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Must not be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.36 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (100-year floodplain). Construction of
new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the base flood
elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to
ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 157.45 NATURE OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   The variance criteria set forth in this section of the chapter are
based on the general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece
of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a
parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with
the requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
   (B)   It is the duty of the legislative body to help protect its citizens
from flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level is so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.46 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEAL BOARD.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from the requirements of these regulations.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.47 DUTIES OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or
determinations made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment may
appeal such decision to the Circuit Court, as provided in Kentucky Revised
Statutes.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.48 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Adjustment shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in
other sections of this chapter; and the:
   (A)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
   (B)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (C)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
   (D)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the existing
or proposed facility;
   (E)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case of
functionally dependent use;
   (F)   Availability of alternative locations, which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
   (G)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (I)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (J)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (K)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges and
culverts.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.49 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (A)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary to afford relief considering the flood hazard. Minimum
necessary means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the legislative body need not grant
permission for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation
the applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the legislative body
believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local
ordinance.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in §
157.05 under "public safety and nuisance"), cause fraud or victimization of the
public (as defined in §
157.05) or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
lowest floor being situated below the base flood elevation.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) upon request.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of §
157.48 are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.50 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice
over the signature of a community official that:
   (A)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage.
   (B)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Kenton County Recorder and shall be recorded
in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of
land.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance or denial, and report such
variances issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.51 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures (see definition in §
157.05) upon determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not
preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a Class A misdemeanor offense. Any person who violates this chapter
or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not more than $500 and/or imprisoned for not more than 12 months, and
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the Floodplain Administrator from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2013-2, passed 5-9-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
         
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
         
III.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
         
IV.   STREET CLOSINGS
         
V.   STREET NAME CHANGES
         
VI.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Authorizing a contract with each newly hired uncertified probationary police
             officer whereby the city agrees to advance the officer’s salary and expenses
1982- - -    to attend the program of basic law enforcement training at Eastern Kentucky
8-1   1982   University, and the officer agrees to reimburse the city for such sums as
             advanced on completing such training if the officer voluntarily terminates
             employment with the city within two years of completion of basic law
             enforcement training
1995- 11-9-  Entering into an interlocal cooperation agreement with other Northern Kentucky
18    1995   municipalities to create the Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky
             Amendment to interlocal cooperation agreement establishing the
1996- 8-8-   Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky; extending 90-day limit to 180-
9     1996   day limit for participation rights in the Board; providing broader
             participation by smaller units of government
             Second amendment to interlocal cooperation agreement establishing the
1997- 9-11-  Telecommunications Board of Northern Kentucky; expanding the purpose of Board;
6     1997   organization of non-profit committee or organization to oversee community
             programming and education access functions
Res.  2-13-
2003- 2003   Stormwater discharge with Sanitation District 1
7
Res.  6-12-
2003- 2003   Animal control services with Kenton County Fiscal
21
             Approving a lease in a maximum principal amount not to exceed $900,000 for the
2012- 7-26-  financing of a project and the refinancing of certain outstanding obligations;
14    2012   providing for the payment and security of the lease; creating a sinking fund;
             and authorizing the execution of various documents related to the lease
2014- 4-28-  Approving a lease for the financing of a project; providing for the payment
6     2014   and security of the lease; creating a sinking fund; and authorizing the
             execution of various documents related to such lease
             Approving a lease to finance a project in an aggregate principal amount not to
2017- 7-20-  exceed $500,000; providing for the payment and security of the lease and
3     2017   deposits to a sinking fund; authorizing the execution of various documents
             related to such lease; and making certain designations regarding such lease
             Adopting an amended interlocal agreement between the City of Ludlow, the
2021- - -    Kenton County Fiscal Court and the Cities of Bromley, Crescent Springs,
4     2021   Crestview Hills, Edgewood, Elsmere, Fort Wright, Independence, Kenton Vale,
             Lakeside Park, Park Hills, Ryland Heights, Taylor Mill and Villa Hills for
             code enforcement in Kenton County, KY
            
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Zoning the property located at 114-116 Ash Street, being
1983-12  12-31-1983  lot 36 of the original plan subdivision, 50 feet by 180
                     feet between Ash Street and Hay Street RCD-R-IJ
                     Residential Cluster Development Overlay
                     Rezoning property in the Eastern Riverfront Area from R-1J
                     to R-1J(P)WD and I-1 to I-1(P)WD; rezoning property in the
                     Western Riverfront Area from R-1J to R-1J(PWD), NC to NC
                     (P)WD, R-3 to R-3(P)WD, and SFC to SFC(P)WD; rezoning
                     property in the Ohio River Area from CO to CO(P)WD;
1992-11  8-27-1992   rezoning property in the Lagoon Area from R-1J to R-1J
                     (P)WD, IP to IP(P)WD, CO to CO(P)WD, and SFC to SFC(P)WD;
                     rezoning property on Elm St., and Euclid St. to Carneal
                     St. from R-1J to R1J(P)NC; and rezoning property on the
                     northwest corner of Davis and Linden Street from R-1J to
                     NC
                     Rezoning certain property known as Area A from I-1 to I-1
2009-4   5-14-2009   (P) NC, and Area B from R-1J to R-1J(P) NC; and Area C
                     from R-1J to NC
2011-7   3-28-2011   Rezoning 107 Ash Street and 125 Ash Street from R-1J to NC
2011-12  6-27-2011   Rezoning property commonly referred to as 201 Oak Street,
                     Ludlow, Kentucky, from I-1 to R1-J
                     Rezoning 89 acres bounded by both sides of elm street to
2019-11  9-12-2019   the south, the railroad to the east, Adela Avenue to the
                     west and the river to the north, by adding to the HP-
                     O zoning district.
2021-7   - -2021     Approving Grand Communities, LLC's request for a map
                     amendment, attached as Exhibit A to Ord. 2021-7
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1988-24  10-26-1988  Accepting the bid of the Union Light, Heat and Power
                     Company as the highest and best bidder of the franchise
1988-25  10-26-1988  Accepting the bid of the Union Light, Heat and Power
                     Company as the highest and best bidder of the franchise
1997-7   9-11-1997   Granting a non-exclusive 12-year cable television
                     franchise to TKR Cable of Northern Kentucky, Inc.
                     Granting a non-exclusive 12-year franchise to and
2009-2   4-9-2009    authorizing the execution of the franchise agreement with
                     Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories, LLC
                     Establishing a non-exclusive franchise to Duke Energy for
2013-14  10-10-2013  the transmission and distribution of either or both
                     natural gas and electricity
                     Adopting a mini cell tower franchise fee and master
2018-2   3-8-2018    license agreement for wireless communications facilities
                     in the right-of-way
                     Granting a non-exclusive five-year franchise to MCIMetro
2020-1   3-12-2020   Access Transmission Services, d/b/a Verizon Access
                     Transmission Services, to provide telecommunications
                     services.
                     Granting a non-exclusive ten-year franchise to and
2021-11  12-9-2021   authorizing the execution of the franchise agreement with
                     Cincinnati Bell Extended Territories, LLC
                     Granting a non-exclusive ten-year franchise to and
2023-9   9-14-2023   authorizing the execution of the franchise agreement with
                     Spectrum Mid-America, LLC
                    
 
TABLE IV: STREET CLOSINGS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Closing a portion of Prospect Street, an approximate .1755
11-1994  10-27-1994  acres between the intersection of Main Street and West
                     Street and Prospect Street
                     Closing and vacating a certain portion of the public
2010-8   10-14-2010  right-of-way of Willow Alley located in the city
                     consisting of 0.1057 acres
                     Closing and vacating a certain portion of the public
2011-8   4-19-2011   right-of-way of Willow Alley located in the city
                     consisting of 0.0115 acres
 
TABLE V: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2001-11  7-12-2001   Changing the name of Uphill Street/Uphill Avenue to
                     Riversbreeze Drive
2010-5   8-12-2010   Changing the name of Oldham Street to Logan’s way
 
TABLE VI: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Sale of property located in the city at the corner of
15-1995  9-12-1995   Adela and Route 8 to the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet
                     for road improvements
                     Approving a lease with Fifth Third Bank, Northern
2006-3   4-6-2006    Kentucky, Inc. for the financing of the acquisition of a
                     building and certain vehicles and refinancing an existing
                     lease
2008-7   5-22-2008   Approving a lease for the financing of a public project in
                     a maximum principal amount not to exceed $700,000
2023-3   2-23-2023   Sale of property located in the city to Grand Communities,
                     LLC for economic development
                     Sale of property located in the city at 515 Elm Street and
2023-4   4-13-2023   526, 528, 532, and 534 West Oak Street to the Ludlow
                     Independent School District Finance Corporation for the
                     development and improvement of Ludlow Independent Schools
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1996 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS References Code Section
KRS References      Code Section
3A.060(8)           31.42
3A.175              31.02
6.050               31.48
6.955 - 6.975       33.04
Ch. 15              36.10
Ch. 18A             115.03
Ch. 31           35.26
18A.225(2)          115.03
18A.228             115.03
39A.010             34.01
39A.020             34.01
39A.030             34.01
39A.100(3)          34.01;
                    34.02
41.240(4)           33.05
42.450 - 42.495     33.04
43.050              33.04
Ch. 45A             35.26
Ch. 56           35.26
61.168              35.26
61.169              35.26
61.800              40.25
61.800 et seq.      31.21
61.805 - 61.850     36.54
61.823(2)-(4)       90.55
61.870              35.01
61.870 - 61.884     35.26
61.872(4)           35.16
61.872(5)           35.17
61.872(6)           35.18
61.874(1)           35.22
61.874(2)           35.22
61.874(3)           35.23
61.874(4)           35.23
61.874(5)           35.24
61.874(6)           35.25
61.878              35.01;
                    35.26
61.878(1)           35.26
61.880(1)           35.19,
                    35.26
61.884              35.21;
                    40.25
62.020              36.22
65.003              40.03
65.003 et seq.      40.03
65.067              32.01
65.8801 et seq.     91.02
                    41.11;
                    41.15;
65.8801 - 65.8839   91.01;
                    91.02;
                    91.09
65.8802 et seq.     111.98
65.8811             41.02
65.8811(1)(a)       41.02
65.8811(1)(b)       41.02
65.8836             41.12
66.660              90.25
67.750 - 67.795     111.04
67.753              111.04
67.753(2) and (3)   111.04
67.753(4)           111.04
74.100(1)           90.56
82.082              40.03;
                    111.01
82.600              72.50
82.605 - 82.640     72.50
82.605              72.99
82.610              72.20
82.615              72.22
82.620              72.22;
                    72.51
                    72.30;
82.625              72.31;
                    72.52
82.630              72.31
82.635              72.31
Ch. 83A             32.20
83A.010(5)          10.02
83A.010(6)          10.02
83A.010(8)          10.02
83A.030(1)          30.02
83A.040(1)          32.21
83A.040(2)          32.21
83A.040(2)(c)       32.21
83A.040(2)(d)       32.21
83A.040(3)          32.21
83A.040(4)          31.01
83A.040(5)          31.02
83A.040(6)          31.02;
                    32.21
83A.040(7)          31.02;
                    32.21
83A.040(8)          31.02;
                    32.21
83A.040(9)          32.03
83A.050             32.20
83A.060(1)          31.35
83A.060(2)          31.36
83A.060(3)          31.37;
                    152.02
83A.060(4)          31.38
83A.060(5)          31.40;
                    152.02
83A.060(6)          31.22
83A.060(7)          31.38
83A.060(8)          31.41
83A.060(9)          31.43
83A.060(10)         31.44
83A.060(11)         31.45
83A.060(12)         31.46
83A.060(13)         31.46
83A.060(14)         31.47
83A.060(15)         31.48
83A.070             32.02
83A.075             32.02
83A.080(1)          32.35
83A.080(2)          32.35
83A.080(3)          32.03
83A.080(4)          32.20
83A.130             32.21
83A.130(2)          30.02
83A.130(3)          32.21
83A.130(4)          32.21
83A.130(5)          31.20
83A.130(6)          31.39
83A.130(7)          32.21
83A.130(8)          32.21
83A.130(9)          32.21
83A.130(10)         32.21
83A.130(11)         31.03;
                    31.21
83A.130(12)         31.03
83A.130(13)         31.03
85.140              90.20
91A.010             33.01
91A.010(8)          10.02
91A.020             33.02
91A.030             33.03
91A.040             33.04
91A.050             33.04
91A.060             33.05
91A.200             33.16
91A.210             33.15
91A.220             33.16
91A.230             33.17
91A.240             33.18
91A.250             33.19
91A.260             33.20
91A.270             33.21
91A.280             33.22
91A.290             33.23
92.280              111.01
92.281              111.01
96.930              52.03
96.943              52.03
97.020              36.20
97.465              36.20
97.590              36.29
100.991(1)          156.99
100.991(2)          156.99
107.010 et seq.     33.16
Ch. 116 - 121       32.20
131.010(6)          115.04
131.190             35.26
132.285             33.60
134.800             33.63 
134.810             33.63 
151.230 (Repealed)  157.01
151.250             157.06
Ch. 154             35.26
171.381             36.50
174.100             90.55
174.100(1)          90.56
174.100(2)          90.57
174.100(3)          90.58
174.100(4)          90.59
174.100(5)          90.60
177.910 - 177.950   91.07
178.290             90.25
Ch. 186             72.05
                    70.67;
186.020             72.31;
                    91.02
186.041             72.70
186.042             72.70
186.050             70.67
Ch. 189             70.66
189.010             91.02
189.010 et seq.     71.01
189.020             71.37
189.020 - 189.140   70.50
189.150             70.50
189.190             90.20
189.210 - 189.230   70.50
189.221             90.20
189.222             90.20
189.285             73.02
189.286             70.66
189.287             73.01
189.290             71.35
189.330(8)          71.03
189.338             70.15
189.340             71.06
189.394             71.99
189.456             72.70
                    71.75;
189.570             71.76;
                    71.79
189.570(6)          71.78
189.570(11)         71.77
189.570(19)         71.80
189.580             71.20
189.820             70.66
189.930             71.36
190.010(8)          91.07
Ch. 198B            150.17
198B.010 et seq.    110.01
198B.010            32.38
198B.050            51.01
198B.060(8)         150.16
198B.070            150.18
224.20-720          70.67
224.905 - 244.970   90.20
226.010             118.01
226.020             118.02
226.030             118.07
226.040             118.03
226.050             118.04
226.060             118.08
226.070             118.02
226.080             118.05
226.090             118.06
226.100             118.08
226.990(1)          118.99
226.990(3)          118.99
                    92.004;
Ch. 227             92.006 ;
                    92.105;
                    92.106
227.380             92.106
227.390             92.106
227.450 - 227.500   51.03
227.450 et seq.     51.03
227.489             51.01
227.550             91.07
227.550(11)         91.02
227.702             92.001
227.702(1)          92.001;
                    92.003
227.702 (2) and (3) 92.001
227.715(11)         92.005
227.990(4)          92.999
241.010             112.01
241.020             112.01
241.060             32.39
241.160             32.39;
                    112.64
241.170             32.39
241.190             112.64
243.015             112.01
243.020 - 243.075   112.01
243.070             112.20
243.230             112.26
243.280             112.26
243.390             112.22
243.440             112.21
243.450             112.24
243.480             112.77
243.480 - 243.560   112.77
243.500             112.77
243.520             112.64
243.550             32.39
243.560             32.39
243.590             32.39;
                    112.77
243.620             112.43
243.990(1)          112.99
243.990(2)          112.99
244.080             112.45
244.083             112.43
244.085             112.45
244.270             112.43
244.290             112.40
244.360             112.43
244.480             112.40
244.990(1)          112.99
244.990(5)          112.99
244.990(6)          112.99
281.010             71.06
281.011             91.07
304.17B-005         115.03
304.39-080          70.66
309.350 et seq.     156.03
383.505 - 383.705   117.01
                    33.04;
                    33.19;
                    33.20;
Ch. 424             36.54;
                    91.10;
                    91.12;
                    152.21
424.220             32.36;
                    33.04
446.010(1)          10.02
446.010(2)          10.02
446.010(9)          10.02
446.010(10)         10.02
446.010(12)         10.02
446.010(13)         10.02
446.010(14)         10.02
446.010(15)         10.02
446.010(17)         10.02
446.010(18)         10.02
446.010(23)         10.02
446.010(25)         10.02
446.010(26)         10.02
446.010(27)         10.02
446.010(28)         10.02
446.010(30)         10.02
446.010(31)         10.02
446.010(33)         10.02
446.010(37)         10.02
446.010(39)         10.02
446.010(43)         10.02
446.010(46)         10.02
446.010(47)         10.02
446.010(49)         10.02
446.010(55)         10.02
446.020(1)          10.03
446.020(2)          10.03
446.030             10.04
446.050             10.05
446.060             10.06
446.080(1)          10.03
446.080(3)          10.03
446.080(4)          10.03
446.090             10.07
446.100             10.08
446.110             10.09
446.140             10.01
532.090(1)          94.99;
                    111.99
534.040(2)(a)       94.99
534.050(2)(a)       111.99
Ch. 610             130.01
610.180             130.01
610.200             130.01;
                    131.04
610.220             131.04
610.255             131.04
610.267             131.04
610.280             131.04
                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1996 CODE
1996 Code 2004 Code
1996 Code        2004 Code
31.01            32.01
31.02            32.02
31.03            32.03
31.20            32.20
31.21            32.21
31.22            32.22
31.35            32.35
31.36            32.36
31.37            32.37
31.38            32.38
31.39            32.39
31.42            32.40
31.43            32.41
31.44            32.42
32.01            31.01
32.02            31.02
32.03            31.03
32.20            31.20
32.21            31.21
32.22            31.22
32.35            31.35
32.36            31.36
32.37            31.37
32.38            31.38
32.39            31.39
32.40            31.40
32.41            31.41
32.42            31.42
32.43            31.43
32.44            31.44
32.45            31.45
32.46            31.46
32.47            31.47
32.48            31.48
33.01            33.01
33.02            33.02
33.03            33.03
33.04            33.04
33.05            33.05
33.10            33.15
33.11            33.16
33.12            33.17
33.13            33.18
33.14            33.19
33.15            33.20
33.16            33.21
33.17            33.22
33.18            33.23
33.30            33.35
33.40            33.45
33.41            33.46
33.42            33.47
34.01            34.01
34.05            35.15
34.06            35.16
34.07            35.17
34.08            35.18
34.09            35.19
34.10            35.20
34.11            35.21
34.12            35.22
34.13            35.23
34.14            35.24
34.15            35.25
34.16            35.26
34.17            35.27
35.01            36.01
35.10            36.10
35.20            36.20
35.21            36.21
35.22            36.22
35.23            36.23
35.26            36.26
35.27            36.27
35.29            36.29
35.32            36.32
35.33            36.33
36.01            37.01
36.02            37.02
36.03            37.03
36.04            37.04
36.05            37.05
36.06            37.06
36.35            37.20
36.36            37.21
38.01            39.01
39.01            40.01
39.02            40.02
39.03            40.03
39.04            40.04
39.20            40.20
39.21            40.21
39.22            40.22
39.23            40.23
39.24            40.24
39.25            40.25
39.26            40.26
39.27            40.27
39.40            40.40
39.41            40.41
39.42            40.42
39.43            40.43
39.44            40.44
39.45            40.45
39.50            40.28
39.99            40.99
51.01            52.01
51.02            52.02
70.01            70.01
70.02            70.02
70.03            70.03
70.04            70.04
70.05            70.05
70.06            70.06
70.15            70.15
70.16            70.16
70.17            70.17
70.18            70.18
70.19            70.19
70.20            70.20
70.21            70.21
71.01            71.01
71.02            71.02
71.03            71.03;
                 71.04
71.04            71.05
71.06            71.06
71.15            71.20
71.16            71.21
71.25            71.35
71.26            71.36
71.27            71.37
71.28            71.38;
                 71.99
71.40            71.50
71.41            71.51
71.42            71.52
71.43            71.53
71.44            71.54
71.45            71.55
71.46            71.56
71.47            71.57
71.48            71.58
71.49            71.59
71.50            71.60
71.51            71.60
71.60            71.75
71.61            71.76
71.62            71.77
71.63            71.78
71.64            71.79
71.65            71.80
73.01            73.01
73.02            73.02
73.03            73.03
73.04            73.04
73.99            73.99
74.01            70.50
Ch. 74, Sch. I   Ch. 74, Sched. I
Ch. 74, Sch. II  Ch. 74, Sched. II
Ch. 74, Sch. III Ch. 74, Sched. III
Ch. 74, Sch. IV  Ch. 74, Sched. IV
Ch. 75, Sch. I   Ch. 75, Sched. I
Ch. 75, Sch. II  Ch. 75, Sched. II
90.01            95.01
90.02            95.02
90.03            95.03
90.04            95.04
90.05            95.05
90.06            95.06
90.07            95.07
90.08            95.08
90.09            95.09
90.99            95.99
91.01            90.01
91.02            90.02
91.04            90.03
91.05            90.04
91.06            90.05
91.07            90.06
91.21            90.21
91.22            90.21
91.23            90.23
91.24            90.24
91.25            90.25
91.26            90.26
91.27            90.27
91.28            90.28
91.44            90.44
91.99            90.99
93.11            92.021
93.20            92.035
93.21            92.036
93.35            92.050
93.36            92.051
93.37            92.052
93.38            92.053
93.39            92.054
93.40            92.055
93.41            92.056
93.42            92.057
93.43            92.058
93.44            92.059
93.60            92.070
93.61            92.071
93.75            92.085
93.76            92.086
93.77            92.087
93.78            92.088
93.79            92.089
93.80            92.090
93.90            92.100
93.91            92.101
93.92            92.102
93.93            92.103
93.94            92.104
93.95            92.105
93.99            92.999
94.01            93.01
94.02            93.02
94.03            93.03
94.04            93.04
94.05            93.05
94.99            93.99
112.01           112.01
112.20           112.20
112.21           112.21
112.22           112.22
112.23           112.23
112.24           112.24
112.25           112.25
112.26           112.26
112.40           112.40
112.41           112.41
112.42           112.42
112.43           112.43
112.44           112.44
112.45           112.45
112.46           112.46
112.60           112.60
112.61           112.61
112.62           112.62
112.63           112.63
112.64           112.64
112.65           112.65
112.75           112.75
112.77           112.77
112.99           112.99
113.01           113.01
114.01           114.01
114.02           114.02
114.03           114.03
114.04           114.04
114.06           114.06
114.07           114.07
114.08           114.08
114.09           114.09
114.99           114.99
115.01           115.01
115.02           115.02
115.03           115.03
115.04           115.04
115.05           115.05
117.05           114.05
130.01           130.01
131.01           131.01
131.02           131.02
131.021          131.03
131.03           131.04;
                 131.99
131.04           131.05
131.99           131.99
132.01           132.01
150.01           150.15
150.03           150.16
150.15           150.30
150.16           150.31
150.17           150.32
151.01           151.01
152.20           152.20
152.21           152.21
152.22           152.22
152.23           152.23
153.01           153.01
153.02           153.02
153.03           153.03
153.99           153.99
154.01           154.01
154.99           154.99
155.01           155.01
155.02           155.02
155.03           155.03
155.15           155.15
155.16           155.16
155.17           155.17
155.18           155.17
155.19           155.19
155.20           155.20
155.21           155.21
155.22           155.22
156.01           156.01
156.02           156.02
157.01           117.01
158.01           51.01
158.02           51.02
158.03           51.03
158.04           51.04
158.05           51.05
158.99           51.99
                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2002-19  4-25-2002   90.26
2003-7   2-13-2003   TSO I
2003-21  6-12-2003   TSO I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
71        5-1-1879    90.04
266       10-15-1891  37.03;
                      37.04
422       5-17-1900   90.44
431       10-18-1900  90.03
433       4-4-1901    131.05
599       - -         92.050–
                      92.059
616       2-13-1919   131.02;
                      131.99
                      153.01–
619       - -         153.03;
                      153.99
671       4-30-1925   90.05
738       3-1-1928    150.30–
                      150.32
805       11-6-1930   90.28
947       10-13-1938  113.01
949       2-2-1939    52.01
1009      6-28-1945   155.02
1025      1-23-1947   155.02
1054      5-12-1949   37.01
                      155.01;
                      155.15-
                      155.17;
1082      4-27-1951   155.18;
                      155.19;
                      155.21;
                      155.22
1088      12-7-1951   90.02
1956-5-4  6-14-1956   32.39
1956-10-1 10-18-1956  90.02
1958-5    6-12-1958   90.02
                      36.20–
                      36.23;
1959-2-1  4-16-1959   36.26;
                      36.27;
                      36.29;
                      36.32
1960-3-2  4-14-1960   37.02
1963-2-1  2-27-1963   155.17
1964-4-1  4-18-1964   155.20
                      90.01;
1964-6-1  6-17-1964   90.06;
                      90.26;
                      90.27
1966-1-3  2-9-1966    70.06;
                      Ch. 74, Sched. IV
1969-3-1  3-19-1969   131.01;
                      131.99
1972-1-2  1-12-1972   31.21
1973-8-4  8-29-1973   32.37
1974-12-1 12-l9-1974  156.02
1976-4-3  5-12-1976   130.01
1978-2-2  2-22-1978   32.40;
                      32.41
                      114.01–
1979-5-1  5-23-1980   114.09;
                      114.99
1980-1-1  2-13-1980   31.21
                      92.070;
1980-9-2  10-8-1980   92.071;
                      92.999
1982-1-1  1-27-1982   31.21
                      36.20–
                      36.23;
1982-3-1  3-24-1982   36.26;
                      36.27;
                      36.29
1982-4-5  5-12-1982   151.01
1982-8-1  - -1982     TSO I
                      Ch. 74, Sched. I–
1983-1    3-9-1983    Sched. III;
                      Ch. 75, Sched. I–
                      Sched. II
1983-1    10-12-1989  Ch. 74, Sched. III
1983-8    9-14-1983   Ch. 74, Sched. I
1983-12   12-31-1983  TSO II
1984-2    8-8-1984    115.01–
                      115.05
                      150.15;
1984-3    8-8-1984    154.01;
                      154.99
1984-5    12-12-1984  Ch. 75, Sched. I
                      112.60–
1986-1    3-20-1986   112.65;
                      112.99
1986-8    8-13-1986   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1986-10   9-10-1986   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1987-3    5-13-1987   37.05
1987-6    6-10-1987   33.35
1987-7    6-10-1987   117.01
1987-8    8-4-1987    33.35
1988-7    3-23-1988   32.38
1988-15   6-2-1988    39.01
1988-16   6-22-1988   37.02
                      92.100–
1988-22   10-12-1988  92.105;
                      92.999
1988-24   10-26-1988  TSO III
1988-25   10-26-1988  TSO III
1989-6    3-22-1989   36.21
1989-9    5-24-1989   37.02
1989-20   10-12-1989  Ch. 75, Sched. I,
                      Sched. II
1990-2    2-28-1990   36.21
1990-13   7-25-1990   36.33
1991-3    2-27-1990   Ch. 74, Sched. I
                      51.01–
5-1991    3-11-1991   51.05;
                      51.99
8         5-8-1991    37.06
1991-16   12-11-1991  92.021
1992-11   8-27-1992   TSO II
4-1993    3-25-1993   33.45–
                      33.47
1994-1    2-10-1994   150.15
1994-2    2-24-1994   37.20
1994-3    3-24-1994   131.03
1994-6    4-14-1994   152.20–
                      152.23
1994-7    5-26-1994   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1994-10   8-25-1994   Ch. 75, Sched. II
11-1994   10-27-1994  TSO IV
                      40.01–
                      40.04;
                      40.20-
1994-13   10-27-1994  40.28;
                      40.40-
                      40.45;
                      40.99
1995-2    3-23-1995   37.21
1995-3    4-13-1995   40.40
10-1995   9-12-1995   52.02
15-1995   9-12-1995   TSO VI
                      95.01–
1995-17   11-9-1995   95.09;
                      95.99
1995-18   11-9-1995   TSO I
1996-2    3-28-1996   Ch. 75, Sched. I,
                      Sched. II
4-1996    5-23-1996   131.04;
                      131.99
                      94.01–
1996-7    8-22-1996   94.03;
                      94.99
1996-9    8-8-1996    TSO I
1996-12   3-28-1996   Ch. 75, Sched. I
1997-3    5-22-1997   71.38;
                      71.99
1997-6    9-11-1997   TSO I
1997-7    9-11-1997   TSO III
8-1997    9-25-1997   37.21
1997-12   11-13-1997  Ch. 75, Sched. I
1-1998    7-9-1998    70.99
6-1998    7-9-1998    50.06
1999-5    10-28-1999  Ch. 74, Sched. III
2000-6    5-25-2000   39.03
2000-10   11-9-2000   Ch. 74, Sched. I
2000-11   11-9-2000   52.03
1-2001    2-8-2001    31.21
2001-3    2-22-2001   39.04
2001-6    5-24-2001   71.38
2001-7    6-28-2001   Ch. 75, Sched. II
2001-11   7-12-2001   TSO V
2001-12   7-12-2001   Ch. 75, Sched. I
2001-15   8-23-2001   39.02
2001-16   8-23-2001   32.35
                      110.01–
2001-17   1-10-2002   110.13;
                      110.99
2001-18   11-8-2001   132.01
2001-19   11-9-2001   Ch. 75, Sched. II
2002-3    3-28-2002   110.01
2002-5    4-11-2002   95.01
                      50.01–
2002-6    4-11-2002   50.05;
                      50.99
2002-8    6-13-2002   Ch. 75, Sched. I
2002-9    6-13-2002   Ch. 75, Sched. II
2002-13   - -         Ch. 74, Sched. I
2002-16   11-14-2002  38.07
2002-18   8-22-2002   Ch. 75, Sched. I
2002-21   12-12-2002  Ch. 74, Sched. I
2003-1    1-23-2003   37.02
2003-2    1-23-2003   38.01–
                      38.06
2003-4    1-23-2003   Ch. 75, Sched. II
2003-5    1-23-2003   Ch. 75, Sched. I
2003-8    6-26-2003   90.20
2003-14   8-28-2003   37.20
2003-15   8-23-2003   37.21
2003-16   9-11-2003   34.03
2004-1    2-12-2004   Ch. 75, Sched. II
2004-9    9-9-2004    150.32
2004-11   11-11-2004  Ch. 75, Sched. I
2004-12   12-15-2004  33.65
2004-13   12-9-2004   112.40
2005-1    3-10-2005   Adopting Ordinance
2005-2    1-27-2005   37.22
2005-4    4-14-2005   Ch. 75, Sched. II
2005-5    4-28-2005   Ch. 75, Sched. II
2005-7    6-9-2005    112.20
2005-11   7-28-2005   32.36
2005-12   7-28-2005   32.43
2005-15   9-8-2005    50.06
2005-16   9-22-2005   33.60–
                      33.62
2005-17   9-22-2005   33.60–
                      33.62
2005-18   10-13-2005  32.44
2006-1    3-9-2006    Adopting Ordinance
2006-3    4-6-2006    TSO VI
2006-4    6-8-2006    156.03
2006-9    7-13-2006   95.06
2006-10   7-13-2006   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2006-14   9-28-2006   39.05
2006-15   9-28-2006   110.01
2006-16   9-28-2006   110.12
2006-17   9-28-2006   110.13
2006-18   9-28-2006   110.14
2007-1    2-22-2007   Ch. 75, Sch. II
2007-3    3-8-2007    115.02;
                      115.03
2007-6    8-9-2007    96.01;
                      96.99
2007-7    8-9-2007    50.06
2007-11   11-8-2007   110.02
2007-12   11-8-2007   110.04
2007-13   11-8-2007   110.13
2007-14   11-8-2007   110.99
2008-3    4-10-2008   112.40
2008-5    5-22-2008   31.21
2008-7    5-22-2008   TSO VI
2008-11   11-13-2008  Ch. 74, Sch. III
2008-12   11-13-2008  Ch. 74, Sch. III
2009-1    2-12-2009   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2009-2    4-9-2009    TSO III
2009-4    5-14-2009   TSO II
2009-6    7-9-2009    50.06
2010-4    8-12-2010   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2010-5    8-12-2010   TSO V
2010-8    10-14-2010  TSO IV
2010-9    8-12-2010   Ch. 75, Sch. I
2010-10   10-14-2010  Ch. 75, Sch. I
2011-1    3-10-2011   95.01
2011-2    3-10-2011   95.04
2011-3    3-10-2011   95.05
2011-4    3-10-2011   95.99
                      110.01–
2011-6    4-14-2011   110.14;
                      110.99
2011-7    3-28-2011   TSO II
2011-8    4-19-2011   TSO IV
2011-11   6-27-2011   50.06
2011-12   6-27-2011   TSO II
2011-14   8-11-2011   Adopting Ordinance
2011-16   9-8-2011    33.60–
                      33.62
2011-17   9-8-2011    38.07
2011-18   10-27-2011  91.99
2011-20   11-10-2011  50.04;
                      50.05
2012-2    3-1-2012    150.01
                      150.15;
2012-3    3-1-2012    150.16;
                      150.18
2012-4    3-10-2012   152.01;
                      152.02
                      110.01–
2012-5    3-8-2012    110.14;
                      110.99
2012-6    5-10-2012   92.001–
                      92.007
                      92.001–
2012-10   6-26-2012   92.007;
                      92.999
2012-14   7-26-2012   TSO I
                      70.65–
2012-15   9-13-2012   70.67;
                      70.99
2012-16   9-13-2012   33.60–
                      33.62
2012-17   9-13-2012   38.07
2012-18   9-13-2012   50.06
                      70.65–
2012-22   12-13-2012  70.67;
                      70.99
2013-1    3-14-2013   Adopting Ordinance
                      157.01-
                      157.13;
                      157.20-
                      157.22;
2013-2    5-9-2013    157.30-
                      157.36;
                      157.45-
                      157.51;
                      157.99
2013-4    6-13-2013   50.06
                      111.01-
2013-5    6-13-2013   111.05;
                      111.98;
                      111.99
                      50.01-
2013-11   10-24-2013  50.05;
                      50.99
2013-13   10-24-2013  Ch. 74, Sch. III
2013-14   10-10-2013  TSO III
                      112.20-
                      112.22;
2013-17   12-10-2013  112.26;
                      112.43;
                      112.46;
                      112.77
2013-18   12-18-2013  111.04
                      72.01-
                      72.05;
                      72.07;
                      72.20-
                      72.22;
                      72.30;
2014-4    4-10-2014   72.31;
                      72.50-
                      72.52;
                      72.60;
                      72.61;
                      72.70-
                      72.73;
                      72.99
2014-6    4-28-2014   TSO I
                      110.01-
                      110.14;
2014-10   8-14-2014   110.20-
                      110.24;
                      110.99
                      112.20-
                      112.22;
2014-17   9-25-2014   112.26;
                      112.43;
                      112.46;
                      112.77
                      111.01–
2015-4    7-9-2015    111.05;
                      111.98;
                      111.99
2015-5    6-25-2015   50.06
2015-10   11-12-2015  Adopting Ordinance
2016-6    10-13-2016  70.99
                      112.01;
                      112.20–
                      112.26;
                      112.40–
2016-7    10-13-2016  112.46;
                      112.60–
                      112.65;
                      112.75;
                      112.77;
                      112.99
                      110.01–
                      110.14;
2016-8    11-10-2016  110.20–
                      110.24;
                      110.99
                      91.01–
2016-9    11-10-2016  91.12;
                      91.99
2016-12   12-29-2016  41.01–
                      41.15
2017-3    7-20-2017   TSO I
2017-4    9-14-2017   Adopting Ordinance
                      36.20–
                      36.23;
2017-7    12-14-2017  36.26;
                      36.29;
                      36.32;
                      36.33
2017-8    12-14-2017  96.01;
                      96.99
2018-2    3-8-2018    TSO III
2018-4    7-12-2018   36.50–
                      36.55
2019-3    3-21-2019   115.02,
                      115.03
2019-4    6-13-2019   Adopting Ordinance
                      72.50 -
2019-6    6-27-2019   72.52,
                      72.61
2019-8    9-12-2019   Ch. 74, Sch. III
2019-9    9-12-2019   111.04
2019-11   9-12-2019   TSO II
2019-13   9-19-2019   38.07
2019-15   11-14-2019  33.62
2020-1    3-12-2020   TSO III
2020-5    8-13-2020   Adopting Ordinance
2020-7    9-24-2020   38.07
2021-3    - -2021     Adopting Ordinance
2021-4    - -2021     TSO I
2021-7    - -2021     TSO II
                      119.01;
2021-10   - -2021     119.02;
                      119.99
2021-11   12-9-2021   TSO III
                      35.01;
2022-1    3-10-2022   35.15–
                      35.27
                      119.01;
2022-3    5-12-2022   119.02;
                      119.99
2022-7    8-11-2022   50.06
2023-3    2-23-2023   TSO VI
2023-4    4-13-2023   TSO VI
2023-8    6-22-2023   50.06
2023-9    9-14-2023   TSO III
                      92.001;
                      92.004–
                      92.007;
                      92.020–
                      92.022;
                      92.035;
                      92.050–
2023-13   10-12-2023  92.059;
                      92.070;
                      92.071;
                      92.085;
                      92.087;
                      92.100–
                      92.107;
                      92.999
2024-5    8-29-2024   Ch. 75, Sch. II
                     
 
