LYNDON, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-21 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 10-28-24, passed 11-25-24; and
State legislation current through KRS 2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 4-23-01C
   ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF LYNDON,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Lyndon are incomplete
and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and indexing
thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Lyndon has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the Legislative Body of the City of
Lyndon that:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Lyndon as herein revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Lyndon”.
   Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
   LYNDON, KENTUCKY
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
      
11.   City Standards
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      
30.   Mayor-Council Plan
      
31.   City Officials
      
32.   City Council
      
33.   Finance and Revenue
      
34.   Public Records
      
35.   Taxation
      
36.   Departments
      
37.   Personnel Policies
      
38.   Code of Ethics
      
39.   City Policy
         
Appendix: Rental Fee Schedule and Operation Rules and Regulations
      
40.   Code Enforcement
         
Appendix: Code Enforcement Board Rules of Procedure
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      
50.   Garbage
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      
70.   General Provisions
      
71.   Traffic Rules
      
72.   Parking Regulations
      
73.   Bicycles and Motorcycles
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
90.   Animals
      
91.   Streets and Sidewalks
         
Appendix: Permit Application Form
      
92.   Nuisances
      
93.   Fireworks; Fire Prevention
      
94.   Littering
      
95.   Parks and Recreation
      
96.   Trees
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
110.   General Licensing Provisions
      
111.   Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants, Solicitors
      
112.   Insurance Companies
      
113.   Alcoholic Beverages
      
114.   Sales
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   (Reserved)
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      
150.   Building Regulations
      
151.   Signs
      
152.   Planning, Subdivisions and Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   Agreements
      
II. Annexations and De-Annexations
      
III.   Franchises
      
IV.   Street Closings
      
V.   Street Name Changes
      
VI.   Zoning Map Changes
      
VII.   Bonds
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
   References to 1991 Code
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code;
provided that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor
shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes,
appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises
or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements
or plats, accepting dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets or other public places, nor shall such appeal affect any
other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of Lyndon
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the Office of
the City Clerk.
   Section 5. The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its
date of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
         First Reading               April 23, 2001
         Second Reading and Adoption   May 22, 2001
         Date of Publication            June 13, 2001
                                             Susan M. Barto /s/
                                             Mayor
ATTEST:
Charlene Barnett /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE #6-24-02
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2002 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lyndon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY:
Section 1: That the 2002 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lyndon, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
references as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2: That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
         Introduced and first reading         June 24, 2002
         Second Reading and Passage         July 22, 2002
         Date of Publication            July 31, 2002
                                             Susan M. Barto /s/
                                             Mayor
ATTEST:
Stacey Woodward /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE #7-28-03A
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2003 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lyndon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY:
Section 1: That the 2003 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lyndon, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
references as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2: That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
         Introduced and first reading         July 28, 2003
         Second Reading and Passage         August 25, 2003
         Date of Publication            September 3, 2003
                                             Susan M. Barto /s/
                                             Mayor
ATTEST:
Stacey Woodward /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE #11-22-04
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2004 S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lyndon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY:
SECTION 1: That the 2004 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lyndon, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
references as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2: That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
         Introduced and first reading         November 22, 2004
         Second Reading and Passage         December 20, 2004
         Date of Publication            December 29, 2004
                                             Susan M. Barto /s/
                                             Mayor
ATTEST:
Stacey Woodward /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE #9-26-05
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2005 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lyndon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY:
SECTION 1: That the 2005 S-4 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lyndon, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
references as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2: That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
         Introduced and First Reading         September 26, 2005
         Second Reading and Passage         October 24, 2005
         Date of Publication            November 2, 2005
                                             Susan M. Barto /s/
                                             Susan M. Barto, Mayor
ATTEST:
Sonya Kaiser /s/
Sonya Kaiser, City Clerk
   “Aye” votes  7
   “Nay” votes 0
ORDINANCE # 9-25-06
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2006 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lyndon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY:
SECTION 1: That the 2006 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lyndon, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
references as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2: That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
         Introduced and First Reading         September 25, 2006
         Second Reading and Passage         October 23, 2006
         Date of Publication            November 1, 2006
                                             Susan M. Barto /s/
                                             Susan M. Barto, Mayor
ATTEST:
Stacey Woodward /s/
Stacey Woodward, City Clerk
ORDINANCE #10-27-08
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2008 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lyndon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY:
SECTION 1: That the 2008 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lyndon, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
references as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2: That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
         Introduced and First Reading       October 27, 2008
         Second Reading and Passage       11/24/08
                                             Susan M. Barto /s/
                                             Mayor
ATTEST:
Stacey Woodward /s/
City Clerk
   “Aye” votes  6
   “Nay” votes  0
ORDINANCE #9-24-12
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2012 S-10 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Lyndon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF LYNDON, KENTUCKY:
SECTION 1: That the 2012 S-10 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Lyndon, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
references as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2: That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
         Introduced and First Reading           September 24, 201
         Second Reading and Passage       10/22/12
                                                                                 
                                          Susan M Barto, Mayor
ATTEST:
                                            
Stacey Woodward, City Clerk
   “Aye” votes       
   “Nay” votes       
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Lyndon Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(`91 Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION.  Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS 446.010
(1))
   AND.  May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL.  Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS.  The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Lyndon irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees. (KRS
446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability, means all those incorporated or formed by authority of this
state. (KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability, includes all those incorporated or formed by authority of
any other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Councilman. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH.  Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY.  The City of Lyndon, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   PEACE OFFICER.  Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON.  May extend and be applied to bodies- politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY.  Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   SWORN.  Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE.  The State of Kentucky.
   STREET.  Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE.  Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE.  Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR.  Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
(`91 Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things. (KRS
446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council. (KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080(4)) (`91 Code, §
10.03)
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
(`91 Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons. (KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
(`91 Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060) (`91 Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090) (`91 Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100) (`91 Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110) (`91 Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(`91 Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(`91 Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(`91 Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
(`91 Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
(`91 Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
(`91 Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(`91 Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
(`91 Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for- word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see KRS
61.870 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1991 and subsequently amended, the 1991
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(`91 Code, § ).”
(`91 Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Official city map
§ 11.01 OFFICIAL CITY MAP.
   The boundaries of the city are declared to be as indicated on the official
map, available for inspection at the office of the City Clerk, said map being
incorporated herein as a part of this code of ordinances.
(`91 Code, § 11.01)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   DEPARTMENTS
      
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
38.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
39.   CITY POLICY
         
APPENDIX:   RENTAL FEE SCHEDULE AND OPERATION RULES AND REGULATIONS
      
40.   CODE ENFORCEMENT
         
APPENDIX: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD RULES OF PROCEDURE
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1)) (`91 Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance. (KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of seven members. (KRS 83A.030(1))
(`91 Code, § 30.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Bond
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor
   
31.22   Councilmembers
   
31.23   Indemnification of elected officials
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   City Engineer
   
31.38   City Treasurer
   
31.39   City Attorney
   
31.40   Citation Officer
City Officials Training Program
   
31.55   Definitions
   
31.56   Adoption of a City Officials Training Program; application
   
31.57   Incentive payment amount; required training participation
   
31.58   Policy regarding payment or reimbursement for training courses
   
31.59   Administration of City Officials Training Program
   
31.60   Status of incentive payments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the
case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the
Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth
of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I will
faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of __________,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by section 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
(`91 Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department of Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department of Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(`91 Code, § 31.02)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the Kentucky Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v Allen, 360 SW2d 248 (1948).
Editor’s note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(`91 Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers of the city who handle public funds in the execution of
their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the city for the faithful
and honest performance of their duties, and as security for all money coming
into the officer’s hands or under the officer’s control. The amount of the bond
shall be established based on the amount of public funds the officer handles at
any point in time during the fiscal year and may be satisfied by a blanket or
umbrella bond covering all or a group of city officers and employees. The cost
of the bond shall be paid by the city.
(KRS 65.067) (`91 Code, § 31.01)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. Such ordinance
shall become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by
the election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with
the County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which
any city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of
the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(`91 Code, § 31.20)
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office begins on the first day of January following his
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason, any vacancy in the office
of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself. (KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor. (KRS 83A.040
(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a
resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to
become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the legislative
body occurring on or after its receipt. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy. (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130. (KRS 83A.040(2)
(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records. (KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order. (KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council. (KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of § 31.21(C) shall
apply. (KRS 83A.130(10))
(`91 Code, § 31.21)
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
§ 31.23 INDEMNIFICATION OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   In the absence of appropriate insurance coverage the city shall:
      (1)   Provide for the defense of any elected official in any action in
tort arising out of an act or omission occurring within the scope of his
office;
      (2)   Pay any judgment based thereon or any compromise or settlement of
any such action in tort except as provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The city may refuse to pay a judgment or settlement in any action
against an elected official:
      (1)   If the city pays any claim or judgment against any elected official
pursuant to division (A)(2) of this section, it may recover against the elected
official the amount of the payment and the cost to defend it if the elected
official failed to act because of fraud, malice or corruption;
      (2)   The action was outside the scope of his duties; or
      (3)   The elected official willfully refused to assist in the defense of
the cause of action in good faith.
(`91 Code, § 31.23) ((Ord. 2-27-12, passed 3-26-12) 820.1-1986, passed 3-11-86)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080(1))
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk;
      (2)   City Engineer;
      (3)   City Attorney;
      (4)   City Treasurer.
(`91 Code, § 31.35) (Am. Ord. 10-25-99-1999, passed 11-23-99)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1), (2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any other
nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of such office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator;
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for city hall, and
telephone number of the city hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
      (6)   The duties and functions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator shall be included among the duties and functions of the City
Clerk. (Ord. 10-25-99-1999, passed 11-23-99)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
(`91 Code, § 31.36)
Statutory reference:
   Functions of Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, see KRS 241.190
§ 31.37 CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   The office of the City Engineer is hereby established. (Ord. 950.4-
1982, passed 9-14-82)
   (B)   The City Engineer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the City Council pursuant to KRS 83A.080; and may be removed by the Mayor at
will.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Engineer unless such
person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided a bond in the sum as established by
City Council, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky
and conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
   (D)   The City Engineer shall advise the Mayor and City Council on all
matters related to the maintenance and improvement of streets, alleys, and
other public ways, and on matters which may be deemed necessary for the public
good, welfare, and convenience, including matters pertaining to sewers and
culverts, and shall perform such work and services in connection therewith, as
may be assigned him by the City Council.
   (E)   The compensation of the City Engineer shall be in an amount to be
established by City Council by ordinance.
(`91 Code, § 31.37)
§ 31.38 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of City Treasurer. (‘80 Code, §
130.3)
   (B)   The Mayor, with approval of City Council, shall appoint a City
Treasurer who shall be the custodian of all funds of the city. The Mayor may
remove the City Treasurer at will. He shall have graduated from an accredited
high school and shall be chosen on the basis of his secretarial and accounting
skills.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   The City Treasurer shall receive and safely keep all city funds
coming into his hands, and for all such funds he shall give duplicate receipts,
one of which shall be filed with the City Clerk. He shall pay out city funds
only on warrants signed by the Clerk and countersigned by the Mayor or
Chairperson of the legislative body.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall make quarterly settlements with the City
Clerk. When the settlement is approved by the City Council, it shall be spread
at large upon the record.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the City Council
showing the state of the finances of the city, and the amounts received and
spent during the month, which reports shall be filed. He shall also make an
annual report at the close of the fiscal year with the total amount of all
receipts and expenditures of the city and the transactions during the preceding
year. (‘80 Code, § 130.3)
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Treasurer unless such
person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, and has provided a bond in the sum as established by
City Council, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and conditioned upon the performance of the duties
specified herein.
   (E)   The compensation of the City Treasurer shall be in an amount to be
established by City Council by ordinance.
(`91 Code, § 31.38)
§ 31.39 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of City Attorney. (‘80 Code, §
250.1)
   (B)   The Mayor, with the approval of City Council, shall appoint a City
Attorney who shall be the general law officer and legal counsel of the city.
The Mayor may remove the City Attorney at will. He shall be chosen solely on
the basis of his legal qualifications, with special emphasis on actual
experience in or knowledge of Kentucky municipal and administrative law. The
City Attorney may also engage in the private practice of law and may hold other
public or private employment.
   (C)   The duties of the City Attorney shall be as follows:
      (1)   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity
to which the city may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which
may be brought against, or by, any officer of the city on behalf of the city,
or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the city.
      (2)   Enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in
favor of the city, and of all similar interlocutory orders.
      (3)   Legal advisor to city officials and the City Council and shall
render advice on all legal questions affecting the city, whenever requested to
do so by any city officials. Upon request by the Mayor or by Council, he shall
reduce any such opinion in writing.
      (4)   Completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings.
      (5)   Draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease, or other
documents or instruments, to which the city may be a party; and upon request of
the Council, to draft ordinances covering any subjects with the power of the
city.
      (6)   Perform such other duties as are prescribed by ordinances. (‘80
Code, § 250.1)
   (D)   In addition to the salary fixed for City Attorney by annual ordinance
of City Council, the City Attorney shall receive additional compensation as an
independent contractor for all extraordinary services, including appearances in
legal actions and administrative proceedings and hearings involving the city,
municipal bond issues, real estate acquisitions and dispositions, and other
matters beyond the scope of usual legal counsel to the city or requiring an
unusual amount of time. For such extraordinary services, the City Attorney
shall be paid reasonable fees commensurate with the amount and value of time
devoted thereto, based upon charges made by other attorneys for comparable
legal services.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as City Attorney unless such
person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided a bond in the sum as established by
City Council, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky
and conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
(`91 Code, § 31.39)
§ 31.40 CITATION OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created a nonelected city office to be known as
“Citation Officer.”
   (B)   No person shall be appointed as a Citation Officer unless he or she
is:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age; and
      (2)   Is a high school graduate or has received a General Equivalency
Diploma (G.E.D.); and
      (3)   Is sober, moral, and sagacious; and
      (4)   No person who has been convicted of a felony is eligible for
appointment.
   (C)   Before entering upon his/her duties of office, a Citation Officer
shall take the oath as prescribed by Kentucky Constitution, Section 228.
   (D)   If required by the City Council or the terms of §
31.04 of this code, a bond in such amount as may be fixed by the City Council
shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (E)   The office or position shall be deemed a part time employment, and the
compensation shall be in an amount as established by City Council.
   (F)   The appointment shall be made by the Mayor and approved by the City
Council. The Citation Officer shall file a monthly report with the Mayor and
the City Council on the first day of each month reporting on activities for the
previous month.
   (G)   The Citation Officer shall not have the powers of peace officers to
make arrests or to carry deadly weapons, but may issue citations, unless
otherwise restricted by the City Council, upon observance of:
      (1)   Non-moving motor vehicle offenses.
      (2)   Violations of ordinances except for moving motor vehicle offenses
and except for offenses which constitute a violation of the Kentucky Penal
Code.
      (3)   Any other duties prescribed by the Mayor and City Council and not
contrary to law.
   (H)   The procedure for citations issued by a Citation Officer shall be as
provided in KRS 431.015.
   (I)   Nothing contained herein shall limit the power of a Citation Officer
to make an arrest as a private person as provided in KRS 431.005.
   (J)   Acting under an Interlocal Cooperation Act Agreement, the City of
Lyndon may jointly appoint a Citation Officer with another party to the
agreement.
(Ord. 130.6-1994, passed 7-18-94)
CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM
§ 31.55 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the terms below shall have the following
meanings:
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center.
   BASE TRAINING INCENTIVE AMOUNT. Three hundred dollars ($300).
   EXCESS HOURS. Credit hours earned beyond 15 during a single calendar year.
   QUALIFYING COURSE. Any training, seminar, educational or learning event that
provides instruction or information that is relevant to the duties and
functions of city government and city officials.
   TRAINING INCENTIVE MULTIPLIER. A number of one to four that is determined by
the number of training units consecutively earned by the city official and is
used to calculate the final training incentive amount to be paid to a city
official participating in the City Officials Training Program.
   TRAINING UNIT. Fifteen (15) clock hours of attendance or participation in
qualifying courses during a calendar year.
(Ord. 11-24-14B, passed 12-15-14)
§ 31.56 ADOPTION OF A CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM; APPLICATION.
   In accordance with House Bill 119 of the 2011 General Assembly, as codified
in KRS Chapter 64, the City of Lyndon hereby adopts and establishes a City
Officials Training Program to make available incentive payments as specified by
this subchapter to the elected city officials, including the mayor and all
members of the city council. for obtaining education and training as required
under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 11-24-14B, passed 12-15-14)
§ 31.57 INCENTIVE PAYMENT AMOUNT; REQUIRED TRAINING PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Each city official eligible for participation in the City Officials
Training Program shall receive payment of $300 for each calendar year that he
or she completes a training unit. Provided that, the city official shall not be
awarded more than one training unit per calendar year and shall not receive
payment in any single calendar year for the accumulation of more than four
training units.
   (B)    The final training incentive payment to be received by a city
official for a specific calendar year shall be determined by the multiplying
the base training incentive amount by the training incentive multiplier. The
training incentive multiplier is determined by the number of training units
consecutively earned by the city official and shall not exceed four. The total
training incentive payment shall be made to the city official presenting proof
of completion of a training unit for a calendar year within thirty (60) days of
the conclusion of the calendar year.
   (C)   The city official may continue to receive the maximum training
incentive payment of the base training incentive amount multiplied by the
training incentive multiplier of four for each year following the fourth year,
provided that the officer continues to earn a training unit each subsequent
calendar year.
   (D)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the officer from receiving any training
incentive payment for the calendar year and the city official shall lose any
previously accumulated training units earned during previous calendar years,
which shall result in the training incentive multiplier being reset to one in
the following calendar year.
   (E)    Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall
be permitted to carry forward a maximum of ten hours to apply to the earning of
the training unit in the following calendar year.
(Ord. 11-24-14B, passed 12-15-14)
§ 31.58 POLICY REGARDING PAYMENT OR REIMBURSEMENT FOR TRAINING COURSES.
   Subject to the constraints and the appropriations established by the city’s
annual budget, the city shall consider paying the cost of attendance or
participation in advance of a city official’s attendance or participation in
the qualifying course if proper application is made to the Mayor.
Alternatively, and subject the constraints and appropriations established by
the city’s annual budget, the city shall consider reimbursing a city official
for the cost of attendance or participation in a qualifying course upon
presentation of proof to the Mayor that the official has received credit for
the course.
(Ord. 11-24-14B, passed 12-15-14)
§ 31.59 ADMINISTRATION OF CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The City Officials Training Program for the City of Lyndon shall be
administered by the Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center,
which shall be responsible for approving courses as qualifying under the terms
of this subchapter, shall maintain records of attendance and participation, and
shall notify the city when a city official earns a training unit and the
applicable training incentive multiplier applicable to each city official.
   (B)    The administrator shall evaluate and approve courses as qualifying
for credit based on the relation of the course to the operation of city
government. In addition to other courses which may be approved as qualifying
courses by the administrator, courses that provide instruction on the statutory
duties of cities and city officials, intergovernmental relationships, municipal
finance and budgeting, municipal taxation, ethics, open records, open meetings,
economic development, or municipal police powers shall be approved as
qualifying courses under this subchapter. The administrator shall require the
submission of the course or conference agenda, curriculum, name of the
provider, and other course materials to determine whether a course should be
approved as a qualifying course.
   (C)   A city official shall submit proof of attendance or participation in a
qualifying course to the administrator. A city official shall submit the course
name, date, location, name of the instructor or provider, and sufficient proof
of attendance or participation in the qualifying course before the
administrator shall award credit. The administrator shall not award credit to a
city official for attendance or participation in a qualifying course that is
not, in the administrator’s opinion, substantially different from another
course the city official attended or participated in during the same calendar
year.
   (D)   The administrator shall maintain records that reflect each of the
courses and hours completed by the city official and shall provide it to each
city official upon request. The administrator shall, within 30 days of the
close of the calendar year, provide written or electronic certification to each
participating city official of completed courses and hours, and shall, if
applicable, certify the completion of a training unit and the applicable
training incentive multiplier. Upon receipt, a city official shall present a
copy of the certification of the completion of the training unit and the
applicable training incentive multiplier to the city in order to receive his or
her training incentive payment.
(Ord. 11-24-14B, passed 12-15-14)
§ 31.60 STATUS OF INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Training incentive payments do not constitute wages under KRS Chapter
337, creditable compensation under the County Employees Retirement System under
KRS Chapter 78, or compensation for the purposes of setting maximum
compensation or modification of compensation under KRS Chapter 83A, and may be
repealed or modified by the city at any time.
   (B)   The base training incentive payment amount established in the
ordinance shall not be adjusted by any index reporting changes to consumer
prices or any other method to account for inflation.
(Ord. 11-24-14B, passed 12-15-14)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City Council
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
(`91 Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
selection as will enable him to meet and act with the remaining members in
making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If vacancies occur
in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall appoint qualified
persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a quorum. Remaining
vacancies are filled as provided in this section. (KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative body
occurring after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. (KRS
83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed. (KRS 83A.040(6))
(`91 Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute. (KRS
83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office,
or agency in the course of any investigation. (KRS 83A.130(13)) (`91 Code, §
32.03)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (`91 Code, § 32.20)
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular meeting of the City Council shall be
held at 6:00 p.m. (legal time) on the fourth Monday of each month, at the City
Hall, 515 Wood Road, Lyndon, Kentucky; provided, however, if any such meeting
date is a state or national holiday or falls on the week of Christmas, the
regular meeting will be held at the regularly scheduled Caucus Meeting date
preceding the Council meeting date that falls on the holiday, on the third
Monday of the month, at 6:00 p.m. as set in division (C) below. (Ord. 120.1
App. A-2-1994, passed 2-14-94; Am. Ord. 120.1 App. A-3-1994, passed 10-17-94;
Am. Ord. 120.1 App. A-4-1994, passed 12-19-94; Am. Ord. 12-21-98B-1998-99,
passed 1-19-99; Am. Ord. 9-27-04, passed 10-25-04; Am. Ord. 7-27-15, passed 8-
24-15)
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
      (2)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (C)   Caucus meetings.
      (1)   In addition to the regular meeting, the city establishes an
informal meeting to be held monthly, which informal meeting shall be referred
to as a Caucus Meeting.
      (2)   Attendance at the Caucus Meeting shall be open to the public.
However, the attendance of the City Council members shall not be mandatory.
      (3)   The Caucus Meeting established in division (1) of this section
shall be held at Lyndon City Hall, 515 Wood Road, Lyndon, Kentucky on the third
Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. (prevailing time). In the event that the
regular meeting of the City Council falls on a state or national holiday or the
week of Christmas in a given month, the Caucus Meeting date and time (third
Monday at 6:00 p.m.) will be the date and time for the regular City Council
meeting.
      (4)   No final action shall be taken at a Caucus Meeting unless the
Caucus Meeting also qualifies as a special meeting of the City Council pursuant
to KRS 61.825, or if the monthly regular Council meeting falls on a state or
national holiday or the week of Christmas, in which case the Caucus Meeting
date and time (third Monday at 6:00 p.m.) shall be the date and time for the
regular Council meeting.
(Ord. 90.04 App. A-2-1994, passed 10-17-94; Am. Ord. 6-15-98-1998, passed 7-20-
98; Am. Ord. 12-21-98A-1998-99, passed 1-19-99; Am. Ord. 9-27-04A, passed 10-
25-04; Am. Ord. 7-27-15, passed 8-24-15)
   (D)   Minutes. The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person
responsible for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (`91 Code, § 32.21)
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (`91 Code, § 32.22)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (`91 Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of ____________.”
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (`91 Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (`91 Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7)) (`91 Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (`91 Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (`91 Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (`91 Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (`91 Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (`91 Code, § 32.43)
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (`91 Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (`91 Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
   (C)   All municipal orders of the city shall be numbered and maintained as
follows:
   10.0   Contracts
      11.0   Purchases
      12.0   Public Improvements and Construction
      13.0   Personal Services
      14.0   Emergencies
      15.0   Procurement Regulations
   20.0   Personnel
      21.0   Job Description and Classification
      22.0   Testing and Employment
      23.0   Position Compensation
      24.0   Employee Rules and Procedures
      25.0   Disciplinary Action
      26.0   Affirmative Action Plan
   30.0   Organization and Administration
      31.0   Management Positions
      32.0   Departments, Agencies and Functions
      33.0   Interlocal Cooperation
      34.0   Conduct of Meetings
      35.0   Administrative Code
   40.0   Appointments
      41.0   Independent Boards and Commissions
      42.0   Joint Agencies
      43.0   Representatives of Local Government
   50.0   Resolutions
      51.0   Policy Statements
      52.0   Commendation
      53.0   Other
   60.0   Miscellaneous
(`91 Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (`91 Code, § 32.47)
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (`91 Code, § 32.48)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Purchases and contracts
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Grant Application Procedure
   
33.40   Application and approval
   
33.41   Determination
   
33.42   Prohibited grants
Investment Policy
   
33.55   Purpose and scope
   
33.56   Standards of care
   
33.57   Authorized financial institutions
   
33.58   Safekeeping and custody
   
33.59   Suitable and authorized investments
   
33.60   Investment parameters
   
33.61   Performance standards/evaluation
   
33.62   Reporting/disclosure
   
33.63   Policy considerations
   
33.64   Approval of investment policy
   
33.65   Miscellaneous
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   BUDGET.  A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE.  The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR.  The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS.  Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010) (`91 Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (`91 Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The following standards shall apply to the form and detail in which
the annual budget proposal of the city is to be prepared.
      (1)   Revenues and expenditures. The annual budget proposal shall detail
the raising of revenue from all sources, including grants and transfers, and
the spending of money for specified programs, functions, activities, or
objectives of the city, including all principle interest due on debt, for the
budget year. The total of anticipated revenues shall equal or exceed the total
of proposed expenditures.
      (2)   Form. The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in
form, to the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
      (3)   Financial plan. The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete
program and financial plan for all funds for the budget year. It shall contain:
         (a)   A budget message, as specified in division (G) below of this
section.
         (b)   A budget summary, as specified in division (4) below, supported
by:
            1.   An estimate of fund balance carry-forward, as specified in
division (5) below.
            2.   An estimate of all anticipated revenues of the city compared
to previous years, as specified in division (6) below.
            3.   Proposed expenditures compared to previous years, as specified
in division (7) below.
            4.   An estimate of anticipated transfers, as specified in division
(8) below.
      (4)   Budget summary. At the head of the annual budget proposal there
shall appear a summary of the budget, which need not be itemized further than
by principal sources of anticipated revenue, and proposed expenditures by
program, function, activity, or objectives of the city, in such a manner as to
present a simple and clear summary of the detailed estimates of the budget
components.
      (5)   Fund balance carry-forward. Each fund balance available for
appropriation shall be limited to the amount by which assets are estimated to
exceed liabilities at the beginning of the budget year.
      (6)   Anticipated revenues, comparison with other years.  In parallel
columns opposite the several items of anticipated revenue there shall be
placed:
         (a)   The amount of each such item actually received during the next
preceding fiscal year; and
         (b)   The total of the amount of each item actually received to the
time of preparation of the annual budget proposal, plus anticipated receipts
for the remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as
possible; and
         (c)   The amount of each item anticipated to be received during the
budget year, estimated as accurately as possible.
      (7)   Proposed expenditures, comparison with other years. In parallel
columns, opposite the several items of proposed expenditures, there shall be
placed:
         (a)   The amount of each such item actually expended during the next
preceding fiscal year; and
         (b)   The total of the amount actually expended to the time of
preparation of the annual budget proposal plus the expenditures for the
remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as possible; and
         (c)   The amount of each item to be appropriated for the budget year.
      (8)   Anticipated transfer from other funds.  Any anticipated excess
revenues, if legally available for general purposes and to the extent such
excess is to be used to support other funds, shall be stated as a transfer item
in the annual budget proposal.
(Ord. 220.3-1983, passed 7-6-83)
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030) (`91 Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The Department for Local Government shall make available upon request
an electronic copy of the audit report to the Legislative Research Commission
to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor of Public
Accounts.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended.
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting.
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   The city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter 424,
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules--Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for the preparation of the statement.
   (E)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to comply with
any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be subject to a
forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the
court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any
resident of the city or owner of real property within the city. The costs of
all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident or
property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.
   (F)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to division (A), the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. the bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rates, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
   (G)   If the city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or stringently than is required by this section, the city shall
also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent the city from
completing and submitting a required audit in compliance with the applicable
deadline in division (A) of this section, the city may submit a written request
for an extension of time to the Department for Local Government on a form
prescribed by the Department. The Department shall approve the request if it is
submitted on or before the applicable deadline, and in the judgment of the
Department the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond the
control of the city. Extensions granted under this division shall not exceed
nine months from the original due date of the audit. If the Department approves
an extension for the city and the city fails to complete and submit the
required audit in compliance with the extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (I) of this section shall apply.
   (I)   If the city fails to complete an audit and submit it to the Department
as required in divisions (A) and (H) of this section, the Department shall
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to
comply with the audit requirements of this section, and that any funds in the
possession of any agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be
withheld from the city until further notice. The Department shall immediately
notify the Cabinet when the city complies with the requirements of divisions
(A) and (H) of this section for all prior fiscal years it has failed to comply
with the audit requirements of this section, and the Cabinet shall direct the
reinstatement of payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld
due to the noncompliance.
(KRS 91A.040) (`91 Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Department of Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (`91 Code, § 33.05)
§ 33.06 PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts.
      (1)   Every contract of the city shall be authorized or approved by the
legislative body and signed by the Mayor.
      (2)   No contract or purchase shall be made which is at variance with the
annual budget and any amendments which have been adopted.
   (B)   Purchases. No emergency shall be declared for the purpose of making a
purchase over $10,000 except upon written recommendation of the Mayor or
official responsible for purchases and an affirmative vote of a majority of the
members of the legislative body.
(`91 Code, § 33.06) (Am. Ord. 1-28-13A, passed 2-25-13)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST.  All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS.  Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT.  Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
    PROPERTY.  Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT.  A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS.  The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210) (`91 Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220) (`91 Code, § 33.11)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Ch. 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (`91 Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (`91 Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (`91 Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260) (`91 Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (`91 Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (`91 Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (`91 Code, § 33.18)
GRANT APPLICATION PROCEDURE
§ 33.40 APPLICATION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   No funding request from any organization may be considered unless and
until a full, accurate and complete grant funding application is filed with the
City of Lyndon.
   (B)   No funding request will be considered from any for-profit
organization. No funding request will be considered if the city is prohibited
by state law from spending money for the requested good or service.
   (C)   Once a full and complete application, from a non-profit group, for a
legal expenditure of city funds, is received by the city, the Council members
will be given a full copy of the application prior to the next regularly
scheduled caucus meeting.
   (D)   After discussion at the caucus meeting, any Council member may ask
that the funding request be placed on the agenda of the regular monthly meeting
of the Council of the City of Lyndon.
(Ord. 2-27-12, passed 3-26-12)
§ 33.41 DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The Council may only approve a grant application which first meets the
following test of public purpose;
      (1)   The expenditure must confer a direct benefit of reasonably general
character to a significant part of the City of Lyndon public, as distinguished
from a remote or theoretical benefit;
      (2)   The receiving organization must provide services that are for the
general good and welfare of City of Lyndon citizens; and
      (3)   The grant must have as its objective the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals, general welfare, security, prosperity and contentment
of all, or at least a substantial part of City of Lyndon inhabitants or
residents.
   (B)   The Council must further make a determination that there are adequate
safeguards in place to make sure that the receiving organization uses the grant
request for the particular public purpose found by the City of Lyndon. Where
possible, the City of Lyndon should be provided invoices for application of the
grant funds directly to the vendor of the material, equipment, goods or
services which are being provided to the public.
   (C)   The Council may only approve a grant application, through the adoption
of a municipal order at a regular monthly meeting of the City of Lyndon
Council.
   (D)   Each applicant/agency may only apply for one grant per year.
(Ord. 2-27-12, passed 3-26-12)
§ 33.42 PROHIBITED GRANTS.
   The City of Lyndon does hereby find that the following type of grant
requests are not sufficiently related to a public purpose and are therefore
prohibited:
   (A)   Any grant request which could be construed as a payment of a personal
bill for a city resident, as opposed to the support of a community-wide program
or initiative.
   (B)   Any grant request which could be construed as support of a particular
business or industry.
   (C)   Any grant request which funds any facility that is not open to the
general public.
(Ord. 2-27-12, passed 3-26-12)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 33.55 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the City of Lyndon to invest public funds in a
manner which will provide the maximum security and highest investment of
principal while meeting the daily cash flow demands on the City of Lyndon and
conforming to both KRS 91A.060 and KRS 66.480. This investment policy applies
to all financial assets held directly by the City of Lyndon. These financial
assets are accounted for in the City of Lyndon annual financial report and
include all monies in investment fund accounts.
   (B)   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly
by the city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city's annual
financial report and include all monies in the following funds:
      (1)   General Fund;
      (2)   Special Revenue Fund;
      (3)   Capital Projects Fund;
      (4)   Enterprise Fund;
      (5)   Utility Depreciation Fund;
      (6)   Agency Fund; and
      (7)   Any new fund created by the governing body.
   (C)   The City of Lyndon primary investment objectives, in order of
priority, are the following:
      (1)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the City
of Lyndon's investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner
that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. The
goal is to mitigate credit risk and interest rate risk.
      (2)   Liquidity. The City of Lyndon's investment portfolio shall remain
sufficiently liquid to enable the City of Lyndon to meet all operating
requirements which might be reasonably anticipated.
      (3)   Return on investment. The City of Lyndon investment portfolio shall
be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout
the budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the City of Lyndon's
investment risk constraints and the cash flow characteristics of the portfolio.
   (D)   Management's responsibility for the City of Lyndon investment program
is the joint responsibility of the Designated Officials which shall be the
Mayor and the City Treasurer. Both shall share the authority, subject to the
approval of the governing body, to establish additional specific written
procedures for the operation of the investment program that are consistent with
this investment policy. The procedures shall include explicit delegation of
authority, if any, to persons responsible for investment transactions. No
person may engage in an investment transaction except as provided under the
terms of this policy and the procedures established by the Designated
Officials. These Designated Officials shall be ultimately responsible for all
transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of controls to regulate
the activities of subordinate officials and employees. The controls shall be
designed to prevent and control losses of public funds arising from fraud,
employee error, misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated changes in
financial markets or imprudent actions by officers and employees. The
Designated Officials shall maintain all records related to the entity's
investment program.
(Ord. 8-26-19A, passed 9-23-19)
§ 33.56 STANDARDS OF CARE.
   (A)   Prudence. The actions of the Designated Officials in the performance
of their duties as manager of the City of Lyndon's funds shall be evaluated
using the "prudent person" standard. Investments shall be made with judgment
and care under prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion,
and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the probable income to be derived. The Designated Officials,
acting in accordance with written procedures, this investment policy, and
exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an
individual security's performance, provided that deviations from expectations
are reported in a timely fashion to the governing body and appropriate action
is taken to control adverse developments.
   (B)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal activity that could conflict
with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or that
could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose any material interests in financial
institutions with which they conduct business. Disclosure shall be made to the
governing body. They shall further disclose any personal financial/investment
positions that could be related to the performance of the investment portfolio.
Employees and officers shall refrain from undertaking any personal investment
transactions with the same individual with whom business is conducted on behalf
of the city.
   (C)   Delegation of authority.
      (1)   Governing body. The governing body will retain ultimate fiduciary
responsibility for the portfolios. The governing body will receive monthly
reports, designate Designated Officials and review the investment policy making
any changes necessary by adoption.
      (2)   Designated Officials. Authority to manage the investment program is
granted to the Mayor and the City Treasurer, hereinafter referred to as
Designated Officials as designated by this chapter. Responsibility for the
operation of the investment program is hereby delegated to the Designated
Officials who shall act in accordance with established written procedures and
internal controls for the operation of the investment program consistent with
this investment policy. Officers will prepare monthly investment reports and
other special reports as may be deemed necessary. All participants in the
investment process shall seek to act responsibly as custodians ofthe public
trust. No officer or designee may engage in an investment transaction except as
provided under the terms of this policy and supporting procedures.
      (3)   Investment Adviser. The city may engage the services of one or more
external investment managers to assist in the management of the entity's
investment portfolio in a manner consistent with the city's objectives. Such
external managers may be granted discretion to purchase and sell investment
securities in accordance with this investment policy. Such managers must be
registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(Ord. 8-26-19A, passed 9-23-19)
§ 33.57 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
   A list will be maintained of financial institutions and depositories
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will be
maintained of approved security broker/dealers selected by conducting a process
of due diligence. These may include "primary" dealers or regional dealers that
quality under Securities and Exchange Council (SEC) Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net
capital rule).
   (A)   The Designated Officials shall determine which financial institutions
are authorized to provide investment services to city. Institutions eligible to
transact investment business with city include:
      (1)   Primary government dealers as designated by the Federal Reserve
Bank;
      (2)   Nationally or state-chartered banks;
      (3)   The Federal Reserve Bank;
      (4)   Direct issuers of securities eligible for purchase; and
      (5)   Kentucky League of Cities Investment Pool Plus.
   (B)   Selection of financial institutions and broker/dealers authorized to
engage in transactions with the City of Lyndon shall be at the sole discretion
of the city.
   (C)   All brokers/dealers who desire to become qualified for investment
transactions must supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration;
      (3)   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire (not applicable to
Certificate of Deposit counterparties); and
      (4)   Certification of having read and understood and agreeing to comply
with the entity's investment policy. Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
   (D)   All financial institutions who desire to become depositories must
supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration; and
      (3)   Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
   (E)   A periodic review ofthe financial condition and registration of all
qualified financial institutions and broker/dealers will be conducted by the
Designated Officials.
      (1)   Minority, emerging and community financial institutions. From time
to time, the Designated Officials may choose to invest in instruments offered
by minority, emerging, and community financial institutions. All terms and
relationships will be fully disclosed prior to purchase and will be reported to
the appropriate entity on a consistent basis and should be consistent with
Kentucky law and city ordinance.
      (2)   Competitive transactions.
         (a)   The Designated Officials shall obtain competitive bid
information on all purchases of investment instruments purchased on the
secondary market. A competitive bid can be executed through a bidding process
involving at least three separate brokers/financial institutions or through a
nationally recognized trading platform.
         (b)   If the city is offered a security for which there is no readily
available competitive offering on the same specific issue, then the Designated
Officials shall document quotations for comparable or alternative securities.
When purchasing original issue instrumentality securities, no competitive
offerings will be required as all dealers in the selling group offer those
securities as the same original issue price.
         (c)   If the city hires an investment adviser to provide investment
management services, the adviser must provide documentation of competitive
pricing execution on each transaction. The investment adviser will retain
documentation and provide upon request.
(Ord. 8-26-19A, passed 9-23-19)
§ 33.58 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Delivery vs. payment. All trades of marketable securities will be
executed (cleared and settled) on a delivery vs. payment (DVP) basis to ensure
that securities are deposited in the entity's safekeeping institution prior to
the release of funds.
   (B)   Third-party safekeeping. Securities will be held by an independent
third-party safekeeping institution selected by the City of Lyndon. All
securities will be evidenced by safekeeping receipts in the name of the City of
Lyndon. The safekeeping institution shall annually provide a copy of its most
recent report on internal controls - Service Organization Control Reports
(formerly 70, or SAS 70) prepared in accordance with the Statement on Standards
for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) No. 16 (effective June 15, 2011).
   (C)   Internal controls. Management shall establish a system of internal
controls, which shall be documented in writing. The internal controls shall be
reviewed by the investment committee, where present, and with the independent
auditor. The controls shall be designed to prevent the loss of public funds
arising from fraud, employee error, and misrepresentation by third parties,
unanticipated changes in financial markets, or imprudent actions by employees
and officers of the city.
(Ord. 8-26-19A, passed 9-23-19)
§ 33.59 SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Investment types and credit guidelines. Consistent with the GFOA
Policy Statement and Kentucky laws and city ordinances concerning investment
practices, the investments as defined by KRS 66.480, are allowed. KRS 66.480(2)
restricts overall investment in KRS 66.480(1)(e), (f), (g), (k), and (l) of the
following types of securities to 20% of total local government investments:
         (a)   U.S. government obligations and instrumentalities including
obligations subject to repurchase, if delivery of these obligations is taken
directly or through an authorized custodian (See KRS 66.480(l)(a)).
         (b)   U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government obligations that carry
the full faith and credit guarantee of the United States for the payment of
principal and interest (See KRS 66.480(1)(b)).
         (c)   Federal Agency or U.S. government-sponsored enterprises (GSE)
obligations, participations or other instruments (See KRS 66.480(1)(c)).
         (d)   CDs issued by or other interest-bearing accounts of any bank or
savings and loan institution having a physical presence in Kentucky and that
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or
that are collateralized by any obligations, including surety bonds, permitted
by KRS 41.240 (See KRS 66.480(1)(d)).
         (e)   Uncollateralized CDs issued by any bank or savings and loan
having a physical presence in Kentucky rated in one of three highest categories
by a competent rating agency (See KRS 66.480(1)(e)).
         (f)   Bankers' acceptances, which must be rated in one of the three
highest categories by a competent rating agency (See KRS 66.480(1)(f)).
         (g)   Commercial paper, rated in the highest tier (e.g., A-I, P-l, F-
l, or D-l or higher) by a competent rating organization (See KRS 66.480(1)(g)).
         (h)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities (See KRS 66.480(1)(h)).
         (i)   Investment-grade obligations of state or local governments or
instrumentality thereof rated one of three highest categories by a competent
rating agency (See KRS 66.480(1)(i)).
         (j)   Shares of mutual funds and exchange traded funds as identified
by KRS 66.480(1)(j).
         (k)   Individual equity securities if the funds are managed by a
professional investment manager regulated by a federal regulatory agency and
are included within the S&P 500 pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(k).
         (l)   Individual high-quality corporate bonds managed by a
professional investment manager pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(l).
      (2)   Important note. If the credit rating of a security is subsequently
downgraded below the minimum rating level for a new investment of that
security, the Designated Officials shall evaluate the downgrade on a case-by-
case basis in order to determine if the security should be held or sold. The
Designated Officials will apply the general objectives of safety, liquidity,
yield and legality to make the decision.
   (B)   Collateralization. 
      (1)   Where allowed or required by Kentucky law full collateralization
will be required on all demand deposit accounts, including checking accounts
and negotiable (as authorized by respective state statutes) and non-negotiable
certificates of deposit.
      (2)   Authorized collateral. Acceptable collateral for bank deposits and
repurchase agreements shall include only:
         (a)   Obligations of the U.S. government, its agencies and GSEs,
including mortgage-backed securities; and
         (b)   Obligations of any state, city, county or authority rated at
least AA by two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.
(Ord. 8-26-19A, passed 9-23-19)
§ 33.60 INVESTMENT PARAMETERS.
   Credit risk is the risk that a security or a portfolio will lose some or all
of its value due to a real or perceived change in the ability of the issuer to
repay its debt. The city shall mitigate credit risk by adopting a
diversification strategy as follows: It is the policy of the City of Lyndon to
diversify its investment portfolios within the restrictions of state and
federal law. KRS 66.480(2)(a) limits local government investment in securities
to 20% of total investment with no more than 5% of total investment in a single
issuer absent exceptions in KRS 66.480(2)(d)(1)-(4). Furthermore, local
governments are restricted from investing 40% of allowed securities investment
total in mutual funds, unless the investment is in a mutual fund consisting
solely of the investments authorized under subsection (1)(a), (b), (c), (h), or
(i) of KRS 66.480, or any combination thereof, and exchange traded funds,
individual equity securities, and individual high-quality corporate bonds by
KRS 66.480(2)(b).
(Ord. 8-26-19A, passed 9-23-19)
§ 33.61 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS/EVALUATION.
   The city's investment management portfolio shall be designed with the levels
of risk appropriate to conform to performance benchmarks while meeting cash
flow demands and comply with state law.
(Ord. 8-26-19A, passed 9-23-19)
§ 33.62 REPORTING/DISCLOSURE.
   The Designated Officials shall submit, at least, quarterly an investment
report that summarizes recent market conditions, economic developments and
anticipated investment conditions. The report shall summarize the investment
strategies employed in the most recent quarter, and describe the portfolio in
terms of investment securities, maturities, risk characteristics and other
features. The report shall explain the quarter's total investment return and
compare the return with budgetary expectations. The report shall include an
appendix that discloses all transactions during the past quarter. The report
shall be compliant with Kentucky law and shall be distributed to the investment
committee and others as required by law. Each quarterly report shall indicate
any areas of policy concern and suggested or planned revision of investment
strategies. Copies shall be transmitted to the independent auditor. Within 40
days of the end of the fiscal year, the Designated Officials shall present a
comprehensive annual report on the investment program and investment activity.
The annual report shall include both 12-month and quarterly comparisons of
return and shall suggest policies and improvements that might be made in the
investment program. Alternatively, this report may be included within the
[entity] annual Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
(Ord. 8-26-19A, passed 9-23-19)
§ 33.63 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Exemption. Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy.
   (B)   Amendments. This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. Any
changes must be approved by the Designated Officials and any other appropriate
authority, as well as the individuals charged with maintaining internal
controls.
(Ord. 8-26-19A, passed 9-23-19)
§ 33.64 APPROVAL OF INVESTMENT POLICY.
   The investment policy and any modifications to that policy shall be formally
approved and adopted by the governing body of the City of Lyndon.
(Ord. 8-26-19A, passed 9-23-19)
§ 33.65 MISCELLANEOUS.
   The following documents, as applicable, are attached to this policy. This
will be city-specific and many cities will not have some of the below
documents:
   (A)   Listing of authorized personnel;
   (B)   Relevant investment statutes and ordinances;
   (C)   Listing of authorized broker/dealers and financial institutions;
   (D)   Internal controls; and
   (E)   Investment Guidelines Manual.
(Ord. 8-26-19A, passed 9-23-19)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Format of copies
   
34.13   Fees for copies
   
34.14   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.15   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.16   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.17   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY.  The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.  The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN.  The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING.  Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA.  The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.  The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his
actual personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall
be the Mayor.
   PERSON.  A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE.  The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.  The city, including its legislative body and every officer,
department and division of the city; every entity created by authority of the
city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency created and controlled by the city; and
any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS.  All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.16.
   REQUEST.  An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH. 
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) to (5)
of this definition; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(8)(b)1.a.
to e.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870) (`91 Code, § 34.01)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING
PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk during
regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official custodian, or
the custodian acting under the authority of the official custodian, may require
a request to inspect public records to be in writing, signed by the applicant
and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the application. A written
request to inspect public records may be presented by hand delivery, mail or
via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, and the requested public records
are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver the records for
inspection. A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(`91 Code, § 34.05)
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (`91 Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (`91 Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6)) (`91 Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880) (`91 Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(`91 Code, § 34.10)
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of §
34.16 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884) (`91 Code, § 34.11)
§ 34.12 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.16. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3))
§ 34.13 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on one or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records;
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.15
§ 34.14 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.13;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.15 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.13.
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.16 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules
and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only upon order of a court
of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS 61.878(1) that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records.
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   (a)   Public records, the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability lists;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.    Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage, and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied,
leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, “Terrorist Act” means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (9)(a)6. of this
section; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state, environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (10)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (11)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (12)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (13)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chs. 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31.
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of;
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409.
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him. Such records shall
include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under this
section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy of the
recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties shall
not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878) (`91 Code, § 34.12)
§ 34.17 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   County assessment adopted
   
35.02   Due date; payment
   
35.03   Delinquency
   
35.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
35.05   Disposition of funds
   
35.06   Taxes to be paid prior to issuance of licenses or permits
   
35.07   Bank deposit tax
§ 35.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Jefferson County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(`91 Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 5-15-00, passed 5-22-00)
§ 35.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on August 1.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his city taxes before August 1 after they become
due shall be entitled to a 10% discount thereon, and the Clerk shall allow the
discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
(`91 Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 5-15-00, passed 5-22-00)
§ 35.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on October 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by the date when they become delinquent shall be
subject to a penalty of 10% plus 1½% per month interest until paid on the taxes
due and unpaid. The delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses
incidental to any action taken by the city for collection of the delinquent tax
bill.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes shall be collectable under the provisions of the
state law relating to the collection of delinquent taxes by cities of the
fourth class.
(`91 Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 5-15-00, passed 5-22-00)
§ 35.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
Jefferson County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
(`91 Code, § 35.04)
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
(`91 Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 4-26-99-1999, passed 5-24-99)
§ 35.06 TAXES TO BE PAID PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF LICENSES OR PERMITS.
   Before any license of the city is granted, including those for alcoholic
beverages, business licenses, franchises, permits or any other such grant, all
ad valorem taxes and assessments of any kind against the property proposed for
the use of such grant, including all penalties and interest thereon, shall be
paid in full prior to the issuance of any such grant or renewal thereof.
(Ord. 220.5-1994, passed 10-17-94)
§ 35.07 BANK DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   Establishment of bank deposit tax.
      (1)   For the 2022 tax year and all years subsequent, there is hereby
imposed on all "financial institutions" (as those institutions are defined in
KRS Ch. 136), which are located within the corporate limits of the city, a
franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% of the deposits (as that term is defined in
KRS 136.575), maintained by such financial institutions.
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 92.330, the purpose of this tax is to partially
fund the cost of government operations, including, but not limited to police
protection, sanitation, public works, maintenance, and capital improvement of
the public infrastructure. All money collected pursuant to this tax shall be
paid directly into the General Fund of the city to be used to assist in funding
the cost of general government operations.
   (B)   Payment.
      (1)   For all tax years subsequent to the 2022 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established: The city will issue tax bills to financial
institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be
due with a 2% discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by
January 31 of each year.
      (2)   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid
before January 31, for all subsequent tax years shall be deemed delinquent and
shall be subject to a penalty of 10% and shall bear interest at the rate of 12%
per annum.
      (3)   The city shall have such authority for collection (including lien
authority), as is given to home rule cities for collection of taxes under
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (4)   The City Clerk is hereby directed to send a copy of Ord. 3-28-22,
Series 2022 to the Commissioner of the Kentucky Department of Revenue,
Frankfort, Kentucky.
(Ord. 3-28-22, Series 2022, passed 4-25-22)
CHAPTER 36: DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
36.01   Establishment
   
36.02   Officer duties, compensation, appointment
   
36.03   Oversight and operational control
   
36.04   Discipline
   
36.05   Safety Director office established
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Lyndon Police Department is hereby established for the purpose of
protecting the health, welfare, and property of all persons in the city. The
Lyndon Police Department is not subject to any civil service plan under
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   The Office of Police Chief is hereby created. The Chief shall, plan,
organize, direct, coordinate, and evaluate all activities, programs and
personnel of the Police Department to provide police services for the city and
enforce laws, formulate and implement departmental policies, procedures and
rules and regulations, be the direct supervisor over all police personnel,
create and submit to the city the annual budget allocation for the Police
Department and administer that budget, ensure that all department reports,
citations and other documents are accurately prepared and maintained on all
police activities, ensure the proper use of police cruisers and other
departmental equipment, prepare and authorize work schedules, receive
complaints from the public, patrol the city on regular scheduled shifts,
maintain proper record system pertaining to all reports, correspondence and
citations, participate in re-certification courses and schedule subordinates
for training, assist outside agencies in emergency situations, make sure that
all filings and certifications for the department and all officers are kept
current and up to date, the Chief of Police shall provide for order at all City
Council meetings. The Chief of Police shall possess those powers granted by KRS
95.019.
   (C)   The Police Department shall consist of the number of police officers
as the city determines is necessary to accomplish the Department's purpose.
Officers shall have and possess all powers conferred upon them by statute of
the Commonwealth, including KRS 95.019, or by ordinance of the city.
   (D)   Primary jurisdiction of the Department shall be the incorporated area
of the city, but countywide jurisdiction is conferred by Kentucky Revised
Statutes. The primary jurisdiction may be expanded to include the incorporated
area of another city that shares police services with the city, pursuant to the
Interlocal Cooperation Act.
   (E)   In accordance with the provisions of KRS 189.920(3), the Lyndon Police
Department motor vehicles shall be equipped with a combination of red and blue
flashing, rotating or oscillating lights.
(Ord. 6-27-22A, Series 2022, passed 7-25-22; Ord. 10-24-22A, Series 2022,
passed 11-28-22)
§ 36.02 OFFICER DUTIES, COMPENSATION, APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Duties. Police officers shall enforce the provisions of all statutes
and ordinances, arrest and/or issue citations to violators thereof, maintain
records, prepare necessary reports, serve writs, summonses, and other
processes, function as conservators of the peace and comply with all standards
set out in the Standard Operating Procedures Manual.
   (B)   Police operations shall be conducted by properly trained and certified
police officers only and it shall be the continuing duty of the Police Chief to
ensure that a full background check has been done of all potential new hires to
insure they have the required training, qualifications, and certification to be
police officers under Kentucky law and that they are additionally certified
under the Peace Officers Professional Standards Act (POPS).
   (C)   No routine, regular police operations shall be conducted outside the
city boundaries of the city without the approval of the Police Chief, except
city officers may assist/back up other police or law enforcement agencies
outside the city limits in the event of an emergency. Jurisdiction may be
expanded to include the incorporated area of another city that shares police
services with the city, pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act.
   (D)   No outside patrols or security services may be performed by any member
of the Police Department unless and until a prior written authorization for
such work is approved at least 24 hours in advance of said event by the Chief
of Police. The Mayor must approve any off-duty work of the Chief of Police. The
Mayor may also reverse any off-duty approval he or she believes to be
detrimental to the city.
   (E)   Compensation. Police officers shall be compensated at the rate set
forth by the city's pay classification ordinance.
   (F)   Appointment. Appointment to the office of Chief of Police shall be on
the recommendation of the Mayor with the consent and approval of the City
Council. Police officers shall be appointed by the Police Chief with the
consent and approval of the Mayor. If the Police Chief and Mayor are not able
to agree on an appointment, the matter will be decided by the City Council. The
following shall apply to all police hires:
      (1)   Applicants are required to fill out an application for employment,
providing prescribed background information which will be verified by the Chief
of Police or his or her designated representative.
      (2)   Applicants will undergo an evaluation to determine their
psychological and physical fitness for employment as a police officer.
      (3)   Criminal history background investigations will be conducted on all
prospective officers to ensure that there are no previous felony convictions.
      (4)   Driver's license history will be checked to ensure that all
prospective officers have a valid Kentucky operators license.
      (5)   Upon appointment and before the commencement of service each police
officer shall be administered an oath of office consistent with Section 228 of
the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky; and shall pledge to
faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office.
      (6)   Newly hired police officers will be hired on a probationary basis,
for a period of six months. During this period, officers may be terminated
without cause or with cause.
      (7)   Newly hired police officers with no prior police certification will
be required to attend the Kentucky Department of Criminal Justice Training
Police Academy to be certified as a police officer.
(Ord. 6-27-22A, Series 2022, passed 7-25-22)
§ 36.03 OVERSIGHT AND OPERATIONAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The executive authority of the city is vested in and exercised solely
by the Mayor. The city personnel policies shall also apply to all members of
the Police Department, in addition to the Standard Operating Procedure Manual
(SOP).
   (B)   Chief of Police shall promulgate standard operating procedures to
ensure the orderly administration of the functions of the City Police
Department, but these standard operating procedures must be approved by with
the advice and consent of the Mayor, as well as any changes or revisions
thereto.
   (C)   The Police Chief shall require each officer to complete and submit to
the Chief a daily activity sheet. Each month, the Police Chief shall make a
written report to the Council and the Mayor at the regular Council meeting
concerning the activities of the Police Department, the budget and operation of
the Police Department. This report shall include the information concerning all
citations and warnings issued and runs made by the Police Department in the
last month. The Chief shall also inform the Mayor as soon as possible of any
significant issues in the past month concerning the actions of any member of
the police force which may be the basis of a complaint against any member of
the Police Department. If there is any matter in the Chief's report which by
its nature involves personnel or pending litigation, the Chief shall report
this matter in a properly-called executive session of the Council. The Chief
shall also report to the Council and Mayor on any other matter including, but
not limited to the police budget, facilities, or management, which the Chief
deems important for the Council and Mayor to know for them to perform their
oversight function.
   (D)   The Chief of Police of the Lyndon Police Department is responsible for
the day-to-day operation of the Police Department and the scheduling of
officers assigned to the Police Department, subject to the direction of the
Mayor as to what must be covered, whether it is a specific event, or whether it
is a specific time. The Mayor is fully within his or her executive authority to
make directives about specific areas and times for which police coverage is
required. The Mayor has full supervisory authority concerning the actions of
the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police answers to the Mayor.
   (E)   The Chief of Police has the authority and responsibility for the
allocation, care, and maintenance of the equipment of the Lyndon Police
Department, according to city ordinance, state law and the city's standard
operating procedures. The Chief of Police must keep and maintain an updated
full inventory of all equipment of the Police Department, which shall be
reviewed at least annually through the police budget approval process. The
Mayor has the authority to require immediate submittal of any documentary
evidence showing the current inventory of all Police Department assets and
equipment.
   (F)   Prior to May 1 of each year, the Chief of Police will submit to the
Mayor a proposed budget to fund all aspects of the Police Department for the
fiscal year starting July 1 and ending June 31. The proposed police budget will
include specific, line-item requests for each resource necessary to run the
Police Department, including a request for man-hours for each officer for the
upcoming year and each member's rate of pay (including the Chief). The Police
Chief's entire budget proposal will then be submitted to the City Council for
its consideration, modification, approval, or rejection according to its
authority under Kentucky law.
   (G)   The Police Department cannot spend any more city funds than were
allocated for the Police Department in the city's yearly budget ordinance
without specific authorization from the City Council. It is the responsibility
of the Chief of Police to make sure the Police Department stays within its
budget.
(Ord. 6-27-22A, Series 2022, passed 7-25-22)
§ 36.04 DISCIPLINE.
   The Policeman's Bill of Rights contained in KRS 15.520 will only apply to a
member of the Police Department if the city participates in the Kentucky Law
Enforcement Foundation Program (KLEFPF) and the other prerequisites of KRS
15.520 are met. Each new hire is on probation for six months following his or
her hire and is an at-will employee during that probationary period.
(Ord. 6-27-22A, Series 2022, passed 7-25-22)
§ 36.05 SAFETY DIRECTOR OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   The city has established the office of Safety Director. The Safety
Director's primary function is to review the activities, personnel, and
spending of the Police Department to better inform the Mayor and Council of the
activities and spending of the Department. The Safety Director shall report to
the Mayor and City Council any potential liability, personnel issues or
possible disciplinary issues relating to the Police Department. The Safety
Director shall participate and review the police budget, staffing, and future
planning. The Safety Director does not have supervisory or executive power and
instead gathers information and makes recommendations to the Mayor and Council.
The position is appointed by the Mayor with the consent and approval of the
City Council.
(Ord. 6-27-22A, Series 2022, passed 7-25-22)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual adopted by reference
   
37.02   Participation in County Employees Retirement System
   
37.03   Affirmative Action program
§ 37.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Personnel Policies and Procedures and Classification and Compensation
Plans known as the City of Lyndon Personnel Policies and Procedures Manual, a
copy of which is filed in the office for inspection, shall be the system of
personnel administration for the city, and are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this code, the same as if set forth in full herein.
(Ord. 240.30-1990, passed 10-8-90; Am. Ord. 240.30 App. A-1-1994, passed 5-16-
94; Am. Ord. 7-28-08, passed 8-25-08)
§ 37.02 PARTICIPATION IN COUNTY EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to participate in the County Employees
Retirement System, effective July 1, 1998, and all eligible regular full-time
officers and employees of the city are authorized and directed to comply with
the statutory requirements of this retirement system.
   (B)   All employees of the city whose duties require an average of 100 hours
during each working month be considered as “regular full-time” for county
retirement purposes except those employees of agencies excluded as shown below
which may participate in the system as a separate agency and those other
persons who are employed as “temporary,” “part-time,” and “seasonal” workers,
as defined in KRS 78.510(21) of the County Employees Retirement Laws.
(Ord. 5-18-98A-1998, passed 6-15-98; Am. Ord. 7-20-98-1998, passed 8-17-98)
§ 37.03 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Statement of policy; purpose. The affirmative action policy of the
city is to promote equal employment opportunity; to prohibit discrimination in
employment on account of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age or
handicapped status; and to bring about a fair representation and utilization of
females and minorities on all levels of city employment. (`91 Code, § 37.01)
   (B)   Dissemination of policy. The city will advise all employees and
applicants for employment of this policy and will post in a conspicuous place.
The city will make known to the public that employment opportunities are
available on the basis of individual ability and will encourage all persons who
are employed by the city to strive for advancement on that basis. (`91 Code, §
37.02)
   (C)   Personnel actions. The city will actively recruit qualified or
qualifiable persons among females and minorities on a nondiscriminatory basis
for all available job openings at every level; and the city will ensure every
employee equal treatment in respect to terms and conditions of employment, job
assignment, compensation, access to training and promotions. (`91 Code, §
37.03)
   (D)   Workforce utilization; goals, timetables. The city will analyze the
utilization of females and minorities in its workforce and compare it with the
utilization by all employers in the county according to the latest official
census. The goal of the city is to bring about comparable utilization in all
categories within the next five years. (`91 Code, § 37.04)
   (E)   Responsibility for implementation. The City Clerk or Mayor shall be
responsible for implementation of this affirmative action plan, including
maintenance of the workforce analysis and job roster and hearing complaints of
discrimination by any employees or prospective employees of the city, with a
final appeal to the city legislative body. (`91 Code, § 37.05)
   (F)   Evaluation and reports. The person given responsibility for
implementation of this plan shall examine its operation periodically and shall
report the progress being made, together with recommendations for improvement
in the plan, to the legislative body at least once every year. (`91 Code, §
37.06)
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
   
38.01   Definitions
   
38.02   Ethical duties and standards of conduct
   
38.03   Conflicts of interest
   
38.04   Financial disclosure statements
   
38.05   Lyndon Ethics Commission
 
   
38.99   Enforcement and penalties
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.  An annual statement file on a form supplied
by the City Clerk which discloses a person’s personal and financial interests
required to be reported under this chapter.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST.  Any interest which shall yield, directly or indirectly,
a monetary or other material benefit (other than one’s duly authorized salary
or compensation for services to the city) to the officer, official, or employee
or to any person employing or retaining the services of the official or
employee.
   OFFICER, OFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE.  Any person elected or appointed to, or
employed by, any public body of the city, whether paid or unpaid and whether
part-time or full-time.
   PERSONAL INTEREST.  Any interest arising from blood or marital relationships
or from close business or political association whether or not any financial
interest is involved.
   PUBLIC BODY.  Any agency, board, body, commission, committee, department, or
office of the city.
(Ord. 200.1-1994, passed 12-19-94)
§ 38.02 ETHICAL DUTIES AND STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   It shall be the duty of officers, officials, and employees to comply with
federal and state constitutional law; the statutes and administrative
regulations of the federal government and the Commonwealth of Kentucky; and
ordinances of the City of Lyndon with respect to the proper and appropriate
conduct of their positions. Mindful of these laws, each officer, official, and
employee shall:
   (A)   Perform all mandatory, nondiscretionary, and ministerial duties of
their positions within the time and manner required by law.
   (B)   Devote adequate attention to one’s duties and conduct any city
business with fairness, integrity, and professionalism in full regard of the
public trust of the office.
   (C)   Accept only that amount of salary, benefits, or reimbursements for
services or goods as authorized pursuant to a city contract, ordinance,
resolution, or other official city action.
   (D)   Act within the confines of their lawful authority or official
capacity.
   (E)   Prepare and keep all city accounts, records, certificates, reports,
and other documents in an accurate and honest manner, avoiding any intentional
and knowing falsification of the same.
   (F)   Reject and discourage anything of value including, but not limited to,
any gifts, loans, favors, moneys, promises, or services offered and/or given
for the purpose of influencing them in the discharge of their duties.
   (G)   Use city property, facilities, or resources only as authorized in
their official capacity, not for the personal benefit, convenience, or gain,
monetary or otherwise, of themselves or any others.
   (H)   Keep confidential any city documents or business information
designated as such, and avoid using any confidential information to advance
personal or financial interests.
   (I)   Act in what is conceived, in their opinion, to be the best interest of
all the citizens of the city, granting no special consideration or treatment to
any citizen or group of citizens which is not available to all citizens.
(Ord. 200.1-1994, passed 12-19-94)
§ 38.03 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No officer, official, or employee, either on his or her own behalf or
any other person’s, shall have any financial interest in any business or
transaction with any public body unless he shall first make full public
disclosures of the nature and extent of such interest.
   (B)   Whenever the performance of one’s official duties shall require any
officer, official, or employee to deliberate and vote on any matter involving
one’s financial or personal interest, such interest shall be publicly disclosed
and the officer, official, or employee shall be disqualified from participating
in the deliberation and voting.
   (C)   No officer, official, or employee shall engage in private employment
with, or render services for, any private person who has business transactions
with any public body unless he shall first make full public disclosure of the
nature and extent of such employment or services.
   (D)   No officer, official, or employee shall represent or appear on behalf
of any private person, other than himself or herself, before any public body of
the city.
   (E)   No officer, official or employee shall appoint, employ, or vote for
appointment or employment of any person related by blood or marriage to any
clerkship, office, position, employment, or duty when the salary, wages, pay or
compensation is to be paid out of public funds.
(Ord. 200.1-1994, passed 12-19-94)
§ 38.04 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   Any officer, official, or employee who makes or participates in the
making of city-based decisions which may foreseeably have a material effect on
a personal or financial interest of such person shall file an annual financial
disclosure statement with the person designated by the City Council as the
“Code of Ethics Enforcement Officer.” Such statements shall be available for
public inspection.
   (B)   An initial financial disclosure statement shall be filed within 30
days after the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   Financial disclosure statements shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Investments or interests within the county in real property reports
where the individual fair market value of each investment or real property
interest is over $10,000 or 5 % ownership interest or more. For such
investments of real property interests, the statement shall contain a
description of the nature of the investment or interest; the name and general
description of the business entity in which each investment is held; and the
address or other precise location of the real property.
      (2)   Personal income reports within the state detailing the name and
address of each source of income aggregating $10,000 or more in value, or $200
or more in value if the income was a gift and such gift creates or may create
the appearance of intended influence on the performance of official duties. A
general description of the business activity, if any, of each source and
description of consideration, if any, for which the income was received shall
also be stated. Gifts from members of the immediate family need not be
reported.
      (3)   Business entity income reports detailing the names and addresses of
all instate businesses, including sole proprietorships, in which the filer
holds at least 5% ownership interests or has $10,000 or more ownership
interest, and detailing the names and address of all out-of-state businesses in
which the filer has such interests and which have done business with the city
within the last three years or expect to do business with the city in the next
proceeding year.
   (D)   Persons required to file financial disclosure statements under
division (A) of this section must disqualify themselves from making or
participating in the making of any decisions which will foreseeably have a
material financial effect, distinguishable from its effect on the public
generally, on any reportable interest of that person.
   (E)   Persons required to disqualify themselves shall notify the Code of
Ethics Enforcement Officer in writing of their disqualification. The Code of
Ethics Officer shall record their disqualification. In the alternative, persons
required to disqualify themselves may give notice of their disqualification at
the meeting or proceeding during which consideration of the decision takes
place. Such notice shall be made part of the record of the meeting or
proceeding.
(Ord. 200.1-1994, passed 12-19-94)
§ 38.05 LYNDON ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   A Lyndon Ethics Commission is hereby created, which shall be
responsible for the enforcement and administration of the Code of Ethics
adopted in this chapter in the manner set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   When requested by an appointing authority, the Ethics Commission
shall have authority to issue an opinion concerning whether or not an act or
activities undertaken by a Lyndon city officer, official or employee constitute
a violation of this chapter. The Ethics Commission shall have authority to
adjudicate factual issues, and to determine whether the alleged act or activity
constitutes a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The Ethics Commission shall consist of three members appointed by
the Mayor and approved by City Council. Ethics Commission members shall be
chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and
their knowledge of local government affairs. Members of the Ethics Commission
shall serve for a term of three years or until his or her successor is
appointed. Provided, however, that the term of office may be less than three
years at appointment if necessary to prevent the expiration of more than three
members’ term of office in any one year. Members of the Ethics Commission shall
not receive compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses
incurred in the performance of their official duties in the same manner as
provided by existing city policy for expense reimbursement.
      (3)   When a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Ethics Commission,
the vacancy shall, within 60 days, be filled for the unexpired portion of the
term in the same manner as regular appointments. Any person appointed to fill a
vacancy on the Ethics Commission must meet the qualifications and limitations
set forth in this chapter.
      (4)   The Ethics Commission shall prepare and submit an annual report to
the city, summarizing the activities, decisions, and advisory opinions of the
Ethics Commission. The annual report may also recommend changes to the text or
administration of this Ethics Code. The annual report must be submitted not
later than July 31 of each fiscal year, covering to the previous fiscal year
ending June 30, and must be filed with the Lyndon City Clerk. On a monthly
basis, a report must be prepared and submitted to City Council if any decisions
or advisory opinions have been pending for more than 180 days from the date of
the complaint or request.
      (5)   The Ethics Commission shall at least every four years review this
Ethics Code, the enforcement of the Ethics Code, and the Ethics Commission’s
rules, regulations, and administrative procedures, to determine whether they
promote integrity, public confidence, and participation in the city’s
governance, and whether they set forth clear and enforceable, common-sense
standards of conduct. After at least one public hearing, the Ethics Commission
may recommend to the City Council amendments to this Ethics Code.
   (B)   Complaints.
      (1)   Written complaints against the city’s officers, officials or
employees which allege violations of this chapter may be filed by any person
with the Ethics Commission and must be filed within one year of the time of the
occurrence which is the subject of the complaint, or within one year of the
date the occurrence was discovered or should have been discovered in the
exercise of reasonable care. No unsworn complaint shall be considered by the
Ethics Commission. The Ethics Commission shall have no jurisdiction to consider
a complaint against a person unless that person is employed as a city officer,
official or employee.
      (2)   The complaint shall be submitted on a form provided by the Ethics
Commission and shall contain the complaining party’s name, address and contact
information including telephone number, fax number or email address, if the
complaining party has such contact availability. The complaint shall be made
under oath and signed by the complaining party before a person who is legally
empowered to administer oaths.
      (3)   The complaining party shall submit with the complaint all
documents, recordings, pictures, and other information which support the basis
for the ethical violation by the officer.
      (4)   The complaining party shall provide the names and addresses of all
the individuals which the complaining party believes have information to
support the allegation of a violation along with a summary of what information
the complaining party believes each named individual has to support the alleged
violation.
      (5)   A complaint that does not comply with the above requirements will
not be filed in the records of the Commission, but shall be returned to the
complaining party for correction or completion of any incorrect or incomplete
information within ten days, and must be corrected and resubmitted within ten
days.
      (6)   Any officer, official or employee of the city shall be given no
less than 20 days to respond to a complaint or any amendment thereto.
      (7)   An officer, official or employee of the city who is the subject of
any proceedings before the Ethics Commission shall be given no less than ten
days’ notice of the date, time, and place of each proceeding. The notice shall
also include a description of the matters to be heard at such proceedings
together with copies of any motions or other documents to be considered in
connection with the noticed proceedings whether in written or electronic form.
      (8)   A complaint filed against an officer of the city shall be given a
hearing as provided by this chapter within 120 days of the complaint being
filed, unless the Commission grants, for good cause shown, extensions of time
not to exceed a total of 60 days. Otherwise the complaint shall be dismissed
with prejudice and not be considered by any hearing authority.
      (9)   The officer, official or employee of the city shall be permitted to
present to the Ethics Commission, at any proceeding before the Ethics
Commission involving an officer, official or employee, or otherwise, any
witnesses or any electronic or documentary evidence the officer, official or
employee wishes, subject only to reasonable standards of relevance and
materiality, and may examine or cross-examine all witnesses called to testify
at such a proceeding.
      (10)   An officer, official or employee found guilty by clear and
convincing evidence by the Ethics Commission of violating the Ethics Code may
appeal the decision to a court of competent jurisdiction as provided by law.
Any such appeal shall be served on Legal Counsel for the Ethics Commission.
      (11)   All Ethics Commission records, including the complaint and answer
and other records relating to a preliminary inquiry, shall be confidential
until a final determination is made by the Ethics Commission, except:
         (a)   The Ethics Commission may turn over to the Attorney General, the
United States Attorney, Commonwealth’s Attorney, County Attorney, or a law
enforcement agency within the jurisdiction, evidence which may be used in
criminal proceedings;
         (b)   If the complaining party or alleged violator publicly discloses
the existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Ethics Commission may publically
confirm the existence of the inquiry and, in its discretion, make public any
documents which were issued to either party.
(Ord. 3-24-14, passed 4-28-14)
§ 38.99 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Upon a determination by the Ethics Commission of a violation of any of
the provisions in §
38.05 by an officer, official or employee of the city, the Ethics Commission
may impose the following penalties:
      (1)   For any unintentional violation which has been voluntarily
corrected by the officer prior to any action by the Ethics Commission, a notice
of mootness shall be issued by the Ethics Commission;
      (2)   For any violation which is determined by the Ethics Commission to
have been unintentional or the result of a good faith misinterpretation of the
requirements in §
38.05, a letter of technical violation or a letter of reprimand shall be issued
by the Ethics Commission as the Ethics Commission deems appropriate;
      (3)   For any intentional violation which is acknowledged and rectified
by the officer, official or employee prior to any action by the Ethics
Commission, a letter of public reprimand may be issued by the Ethics
Commission;
      (4)   For any intentional violation a letter of formal censure may be
issued by the Ethics Commission;
      (5)   For any intentional violation a written recommendation may be made
by the Ethics Commission to the City Council, the Mayor, or other appointing
authority of removal, training, or remediation.
   (B)   In addition to any of the penalties set forth above, an intentional
violation of §
38.05 shall be a misdemeanor for which an officer may be fined by the Ethics
Commission a sum no less than $25 nor more than $500.
   (C)   In addition to any of the penalties set forth above, an intentional
violation of §
38.05 may:
      (1)   In the case of a non-elected officer, official or employee of the
city, be grounds for sanctions or actions by his or her appointing authority;
      (2)   In the case of an elected officer, official or employee of the
city, be grounds for removal under KRS 67C.143; or
      (3)   In the case of a City Council member, be grounds for other
sanctions or actions by the Metro Council under its rules, or otherwise.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to enter into an agreement at any time
with one or more other cities or counties pursuant to the provisions of the
Interlocal Cooperation Act, KRS 65.210 through 65.300, for the purpose of
establishing a joint commission responsible for enforcing the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 3-24-14, passed 4-28-14)
CHAPTER 39: CITY POLICY
Section
   
39.01   Regulations for use of City Hall assembly hall and conference room
   
Appendix:   Rental Fee Schedule and Operation Rules and Regulations
§ 39.01 REGULATIONS FOR USE OF CITY HALL ASSEMBLY HALL AND CONFERENCE ROOM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.  An organization whose main purpose is to
generously give to the needy.
      (2)   LYNDON CIVIC ORGANIZATION.  Any organization which operates within
the city, specifically the Woman’s Club, Fire Department, the Lyndon Business
Association and the Lyndon Homemakers.
   (B)   Rules. The operation rules and regulations of the schedule set forth
in the appendix to this chapter are hereby incorporated by reference into this
section.
   (C)   Fees. The Lyndon City Hall Rental rates of the schedule set forth in
the appendix to this chapter are hereby incorporated by reference into this
section.
   (D)   Waiver of fees. The fees for the facilities of City Hall may be waived
if a majority of the Architectural Review Board determines an emergency or
other exceptional circumstance warrants such action.
   (E)   Alcoholic beverages prohibited. Alcoholic beverages of every nature
and kind are prohibited on or about all the premises of Lyndon City Hall.
(Ord. 730.01-1994, passed 4-5-94)
APPENDIX: RENTAL FEE SCHEDULE AND OPERATION RULES AND REGULATIONS
LYNDON CITY HALL RENTAL FEE SCHEDULE
LYNDON CITY HALL RENTAL FEE SCHEDULE
Assembly Hall
Lyndon civic organizations                               No charge
Meetings -                                                
Charitable organizations                                 $ 25
Other groups, individuals, businesses                    $ 60
Events -                                                  
Charitable organizations/Lyndon residents                $225
Other groups, individuals, businesses                    $350
Kitchen use - excluding Lyndon organizations/individuals $ 25
Conference Room
Charitable Organizations/Lyndon residents                $ 15
Other groups, individuals, businesses                    $ 30
Governmental agencies - annual fee                       $200
 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
   OPERATION RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR RENTALS
   LYNDON CITY HALL - ASSEMBLY HALL AND CONFERENCE ROOM
   1.   Closing times: weekly - 11:00 p.m. and weekend - 12:00 a.m.
   2.   All fees are based on a four-hour time limit.
   3.   Lights and heating/cooling system shall be turned off prior to leaving
the building. All doors shall be secured.
   4.   Rental shall be on a first-come, first-served basis.
   5.   Assembly Hall is scheduled twice each month for the use of the City
Council - the first Tuesday and the third Monday. The Conference Room is
reserved for meetings on the second and fourth Thursday of each month.
   6.   All groups using the Assembly Hall will be required to provide a $100
damage deposit prior to each use.
   7.   Any individual or organization using the building will be fully
responsible for any damage caused during said use of a City of Lyndon facility.
   8.   Necessary clean-up after events or meetings is the responsibility of
the renter, specifically removing all foodstuffs and placing all garbage in the
outside dumpster prior to leaving the building.
   ** ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ARE PROHIBITED **
(Ord. 730.01-1994, passed 4-5-94)
CHAPTER 40: CODE ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
40.01   Definitions
   
40.02   Creation and membership
   
40.03   Powers
   
40.04   Organization; meetings
   
40.05   Conflict of interest
   
40.06   Jurisdiction; powers
   
40.07   Enforcement proceedings
   
40.08   Hearing, notice and final order
   
40.09   Legal counsel
   
40.10   Appeals; final judgement
   
40.11   Ordinance fine schedule
   
40.12   Lien, fines, charges and fees
   
Appendix:   Code Enforcement Board Rules of Procedure
§ 40.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.  An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   ORDINANCE.  An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ 40.02 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8839 within
the city, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of five members, all
of whom shall be at least 21 years of age and a resident of the city for a
period of at least one year prior to the person’s appointment as a member of
the Board, and shall reside there throughout the term in office.
   (B)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city, subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (C)   The initial appointment to a five-member Code Enforcement Board shall
be as follows:
      (1)   One member appointed to a one-year term.
      (2)   Two members appointed to a two-year term.
      (3)   Two members appointed to a three-year term.
All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years. A member may be
reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   The executive authority may appoint, subject to the approval of the
legislative body, two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board
in the absence of regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the
qualifications and shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to
regular members of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body within 60 days of the vacancy. If
the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining Code Board
members shall fill the vacancy.
   (F)   A Code Board member may be removed from office by the executive
authority for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The
executive authority must submit a written statement to the member and the
legislative body setting forth the reasons for removal.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board must, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses and compensated in the amount of $25 per meeting.
   (I)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board may hold any elected or non-
elected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ 40.03 POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance the violation of which constitutes an offense under any provision of
the Kentucky Revised Statutes, including specifically, any provision of the
Kentucky Penal Code and any moving motor vehicle offense.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ 40.04 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS.
   (A) The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a chair from among its
members. The chairman shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member
of the Board.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
third Tuesday of every month. Meetings other than those regularly scheduled
shall be special meetings held in accordance with the requirements of the
Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held
in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and the Kentucky Open
Meetings Act.
   (D)   The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ 40.05 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided, shall disclose the
nature of the interest and shall disqualify himself from voting on the matter
in which he has an interest and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ 40.06 JURISDICTION; POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have jurisdiction to enforce and
shall enforce those city ordinances and code provisions which specifically
provide for Code Board Enforcement.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings.
      (2)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of
an ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
      (3)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its
hearings. Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any
Code Enforcement Officer.
      (4)   To take testimony under oath. The chairman shall have the authority
to administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
      (5)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
      (6)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ 40.07 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board shall only
be initiated by the issuance of a citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, if a Code Enforcement
Officer believes, based on his personal observation or investigation, that a
person has violated a city ordinance he shall issue a notice of violation to
the offender allowing the offender a specified period of time to remedy the
violation without fine. If the offender fails or refuses to remedy the
violations within the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is
authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (5)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (6)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (8)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation, within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation and that the determination that the
violation was committed shall be final.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the City Clerk.
   (F)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board to
contest the citation. If the person fails to respond to the citation within
seven days, the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
and the determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final.
   (G)   If the alleged violator does not contest the citation within the time
prescribed, the Code Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and impose the civil fine set forth in the
citation. A copy of the final order shall be served on the person guilty of the
violation.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ 40.08 HEARING, NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A) When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted within 14 days of the
request, unless the requester wants or agrees to a continuance not to exceed 14
additional days.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by certified mail, return receipt
requested; by personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board who
fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to
have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be final. The Code
Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining the violation as
committed and shall impose the civil fine set forth in the citation. A copy of
the final order shall be served upon the person guilty of the violation.
   (D)   All testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded. Testimony shall
be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged violator, and any
witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement Officer or alleged
violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process
shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it determines that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it determines
that a violation was committed, an order shall be issued upholding the citation
and either imposing a fine up to the maximum authorized by this or other
ordinance or requiring the offender to remedy a continuing violation, or both.
   (F)   Every final order of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the date the order was issued. A copy shall be
furnished to the person named in the citation. If the person named in the
citation is not present when the final order is issued, the order shall be
delivered in accordance with the procedures set forth in division (B) above.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ 40.09 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city or by a Code Enforcement Officer for the city.
The City Attorney may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may
present cases before the Code Enforcement Board, but in no case serve in both
capacities.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ 40.10 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGEMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order of the Code Enforcement Board may be
taken to the Jefferson County District Court within 30 days of the date the
order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and
a copy of the Code Enforcement Board’s order in the same manner as any civil
action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement Board’s
order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ 40.11 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Code Enforcement Board
shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines.
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this division
shall apply; however, the Board may waive all or any portion of a penalty for
an uncontested violation, if in its discretion, the Board determines that such
waiver will promote compliance with the ordinance in issue.
Violation 1st offense 2nd offense All others
Violation             1st offense 2nd offense All others
Animals               $ 25        $50         $100
Building codes        $100        $125        $150
Nuisance              $10         $25         $50
Licensing             $50         $75         $100
Signage               $10         $25         $50
Littering             $10         $25         $50
Parking               $10         $25         $50
Streets and sidewalks $10         $25         $50
   
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Board is
required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion of
the Code Board:
Violation 1st offense 2nd offense All others
Violation             1st offense 2nd offense All others
Animals               $100        $200        $300
Building codes        $500        $750        $1000
Nuisance              $75         $150        $250
Licensing             $500        $750        $1000
Signage               $50         $100        $700
Littering             $50         $100        $200
Parking               $50         $100        $200
Streets and sidewalks $50         $100        $200
 
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ 40.12 LIEN, FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a final, nonappealable order of the Code Enforcement Board, or by a final
judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a city ordinance for
all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by
the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid.
   (C)   The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except
state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A), the person found
to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount
of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred
by the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may
bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same remedies as
provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
APPENDIX: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD RULES OF PROCEDURE
Section
   
I.   Name
   
II.   Jurisdiction
   
III.   Officers and their duties
   
IV.   Election of officers
   
V.   Meetings
   
VI.   Attendance
   
VII.   Quorum
   
VIII.   Voting
   
IX.   Conflicts of interest and abstentions
   
X.   Procedural rules
   
XI.   Order of business
   
XII.   Initiation of actions before the Board
   
XIII.   Hearings
   
XIV.   Enforcement
   
XV.   Miscellaneous
§ I. NAME.
   The name of this Board shall be the Code Enforcement Board of the City of
Lyndon, Kentucky.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ II. JURISDICTION.
   The Board has jurisdiction to enforce ordinances and code provisions of the
city as set forth in Ordinance No. 6-16-97 of the City of Lyndon, Kentucky.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ III. OFFICERS AND THEIR DUTIES.
   (A)   The officers shall be a chairman and a vice chairman.
   (B)   The chairman shall preside at all meetings and hearings of the Board
and shall have the duties normally conferred by parliamentary usage of such
officers.
   (C)   The chairman shall be a full voting member of the Board and shall have
the privilege of discussing and otherwise taking part in all matters before the
Board.
   (D)   The vice chairman shall act in the absence of the chairman, and a
member selected from the Board may be designated to serve in the absence of the
chairman and the vice chairman.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ IV. ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Nomination of officers shall be made from the members at the annual
organizational meeting in July of each year, and the election shall be held
immediately thereafter.
   (B)   A candidate receiving a majority of the votes cast shall be declared
elected and shall serve a term of one year or until a successor shall take
office.
   (C)   Vacancies in the office of chairman or vice chairman shall be filled
as soon as possible by the election procedure described above.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ V. MEETINGS.
   (A)   Meetings of the Board shall be held as necessary upon the call of the
chairman, or when called by at least three members of the Board by written
notification to the chairman.
   (B)   Meetings shall be held at the City of Lyndon City Hall at the time set
forth in the notice of the meeting.
   (C)   Notice of all meetings, both regular and special, shall be given to
all board members at least 24 hours in advance of the meeting. All notices of
hearings shall be sent to each member of the Board no later than seven days
before the date of the hearing. Notices of all meetings and hearings of the
Board shall also be forwarded to code enforcement officers and other city
personnel at the same time the notices are sent to the code board members.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ VI. ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   Members shall notify the chairman of the Board if they will be unable
to attend a meeting.
   (B)   If a member misses two out of three consecutive meetings without
cause, the chairman shall notify the executive authority of the city of the
absences and appropriate action may be taken to remove the member from the
Board.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ VII. QUORUM.
   A quorum of the Board shall consist of three members.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ VIII. VOTING.
   All votes shall be by voice vote and the vote of each Board member shall be
recorded in the minutes. It shall take an affirmative vote of a majority of the
members constituting a quorum for the Board to take any official action.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ IX. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND ABSTENTIONS.
   Any member of the Board who has any direct or indirect financial or personal
interest in any matter to be decided by the Board shall disclose the nature of
the interest on the record of the Board’s proceedings and shall abstain from
voting on that matter. Any member who has announced a conflict with respect to
any matter shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a quorum during
the time the Board takes the matter under consideration.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ X. PROCEDURAL RULES.
   Parliamentary procedure in Board meetings shall be governed by these rules
and by Robert’s Rules of Order, as amended. The presiding officer shall make
all procedural rulings during meetings and hearings of the Board.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ XI. ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The Board shall conduct its meetings in accordance with the following order
of business. The order of business at any meeting may be varied, if there is no
objection from any member of the Board. In the event of an objection, the order
of business may be varied upon the agreement of a majority of the members
constituting a quorum.
   (A)   Roll call
   (B)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting
   (C)   Reports
   (D)   Public hearings
      (1)   Unfinished hearings
      (2)   New hearings
   (E)   Unfinished business other than hearings
   (F)   New business other than hearings
   (G)   Announcements
   (H)   Adjournment
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ XII. INITIATION OF ACTIONS BEFORE THE BOARD.
   (A)   All actions before the Board shall be initiated by the filing of a
Request for a Hearing by a person who has been cited for a violation of any
ordinance enforceable by the Board.
   (B)   The Board’s secretary shall assign a case number and shall set the
case for a hearing at a subsequent meeting of the Board to be held within 30
days of the date the Request for a Hearing is received.
   (C)   After the case is set for a hearing, the secretary shall be
responsible for sending hearing notifications to the person who requested the
hearing, to necessary code enforcement personnel, to the Board’s legal advisor,
to board members, and to any additional person(s) as directed by the chairman.
   (D)   After the case is set for hearing, the secretary shall be empowered to
issue subpoenas as requested by the Code Enforcement Officer and the alleged
violator. Subpoenas shall be sent to the Citation Officer for service.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ XIII. HEARINGS.
   The following procedures will be observed in all hearings before the Board:
   (A)   The secretary shall read the Statement of Violation (Citation) and
Request for Hearing.
   (B)   The respondent shall be asked if he/she wishes to contest the
citation.
   (C)   All witnesses shall be sworn in by the chairman.
   (D)   The city shall present its case and respondent shall present his/her
case. Both sides will have an opportunity to cross-examine witnesses presented
by the other party.
   (E)   The Board may question any witness or call any witness as determined
necessary.
   (F)   If legal counsel are present, they shall be permitted to present brief
opening statements and closing arguments.
   (G)   The Board may, at its discretion, at any time during the hearing,
adjourn the hearing for a period not to exceed 14 days and request further
information from either party.
   (H)   If a hearing is adjourned, at the time the hearing is reconvened only
those board members who have been present from the beginning of the hearing may
participate in the deliberations and decision- making process.
   (I)   Upon completion of all testimony and evidence, the chairman shall
close the hearing.
   (J)   The Board may only consider that evidence which is presented at the
hearing.
   (K)   The Board shall immediately deliberate in open, public session.
   (L)   The Board shall orally issue its findings of fact, conclusions of law
and order which must be approved by at least a majority of the members
constituting a quorum. The order shall state the relief granted by the Board,
including the amount of any civil fine or other penalty imposed. The order
shall be reduced to writing, including the date the order was issued, shall be
provided to the respondent at the hearing, or mailed to the respondent within
five working days after the hearing.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ XIV. ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If any order has been issued by the Board with a scheduled date for
future compliance, the code enforcement officer shall make a follow-up
inspection to determine if the violation has been corrected as ordered.
   (B)   The code enforcement officer shall issue an Affidavit of Compliance or
Non-Compliance, which shall be filed with the Board. A copy of the affidavit
shall be hand-delivered or mailed to the violator.
   (C)   If the code enforcement officer issues an Affidavit of Non-Compliance,
a copy of an Order Imposing Civil Fine shall be mailed to the violator by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or served upon the violator by the
code enforcement officer or other person designated by the city to serve
process. All fines sent forth in the Order Imposing Penalty shall be payable to
the city.
   (D)   If a fine remains unpaid for a period of 14 days, a certified copy of
the Order Imposing Civil Fine, along with an affidavit of appropriate personnel
setting forth the charges and fees incurred by the city or the Code Board, may
be recorded with the County Clerk as a lien on any real or personal property of
the violator which may legally be subject to such lien.
   (E)   The Board shall hold hearings, as necessary, to ensure the
effectiveness of any order issued by the Board.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
§ XV. MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   These rules of procedure may be altered, in a manner not inconsistent
with the City Code and applicable statutes, during any meeting of the Board,
provided that notice of the proposed changes is given to the Board members at
least seven days in advance of the meeting.
   (B)   The provisions of these rules of procedure shall be discussed and
adopted or readopted by the Board annually at its organizational meeting.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Board shall be open to the public in
accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5).
   (D)   All records of the Board shall be available for public inspection in
accordance with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Records Law, KRS 61.870
to 61.884.
(Ord. 6-16-97-1996-97, passed 7-21-97)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Accumulation, depositing of garbage prohibited; placement in containers
   
50.03   Administration of garbage disposal service; contractor
   
50.04   Recyclable materials
   
50.05   Restrictions on times for garbage and refuse collection
   
50.06   Procedures for setting out garbage cans and recycling bins
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Control of rubbish, see §
91.34
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES.  Residue from fires used for cooking and heating buildings.
   GARBAGE.  Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food, wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding, noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to metals, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass,
crockery, other mineral waste, street rubbish, including, but not limited to
street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch basin dirt, contents of litter
receptacles. Provided, refuse shall not include solid wastes resulting from
industrial processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing
wastes, boiler house cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings.
(`91 Code, § 50.01)
§ 50.02 ACCUMULATION, DEPOSITING OF GARBAGE PROHIBITED; PLACEMENT IN
CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the city
any garbage, or other material, subject to decay other than leaves or grass,
except in a tightly covered metal container or enclosed trash bags.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit to accumulate any dust, ashes,
or trash of such a material that it can be blown away by the wind anywhere in
the city except in a covered container.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to dump or place any garbage, refuse or ashes on
any premises in the city without the consent of the owner of such premises.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to dispose of any garbage, refuse or ashes
anywhere in the city except in an approved disposal device, or in a lawfully
established garbage or refuse dump. Such material not so properly disposed of
shall be placed in containers as hereinafter prescribed.
(`91 Code, § 50.02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 ADMINISTRATION OF GARBAGE DISPOSAL SERVICE; CONTRACTOR.
   The city may, at its discretion, contract with a provider for the above
described services. In this event, any service charge may be directly payable
to the contractor. The city may impose any additional requirements as are
necessary upon the contractor to insure performance.
(`91 Code, § 50.03)
§ 50.04 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Recyclable materials placed at a designated site, or edge of a public
street or dedicated right-of-way, in a specially designated container, for the
purpose of collecting newsprint, glass, aluminum containers, bi-metal
containers, plastic milk jugs, and plastic two liter bottles, and such other
materials as may be hereafter designated by the city as recyclable materials,
will be collected by the authorized agent of the city.
   (B)   Placing recyclable materials in the designated container, in the
specified location shall be deemed to vest title to the materials in the city.
Non-recyclable materials will not be collected and will not become the property
of the city.
   (C)   No person shall remove, burn, overturn or tamper with any recyclable
materials from the designated container, or remove the container itself,
without the consent of the Mayor or the member of the City Council who has been
designated to oversee the Recycling Program.
(Ord. 830.2-1991, passed 12-9-91) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 RESTRICTIONS ON TIMES FOR GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity of garbage collection,
including dumpster type collection, within the city between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   As used herein, GARBAGE COLLECTION shall mean any of the following
activities:
      (1)   Emptying of garbage cans into a garbage collection truck;
      (2)   Loading, unloading, maneuvering, positioning, or emptying a
dumpster or similar type container;
      (3)   Using a garbage collection truck to compact garbage by any process.
   (C)   The registered owner of a garbage collection truck being used in
violation of this section shall be prima facia evidence of ownership of the
vehicle and of violation of this section by such owner.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to garbage collection where the site is
more than 1500 feet, measured in a straight line, from the nearest residential
use property line.
(Ord. 2-25-02, passed 3-24-02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 PROCEDURES FOR SETTING OUT GARBAGE CANS AND RECYCLING BINS.
   No resident may set out a garbage, recycling, or yard waste container for
collection prior to noon on the day before a regular or special scheduled
collection date. In addition, no resident shall be allowed to set out for
collection waste products which were not generated at the residence. Empty
garbage and recycling containers must be moved from the curb by 8:00 a.m. the
day after collection. Any items not covered by the regular pickup shall be the
responsibility of the resident to request, from the carrier, a special pickup,
and pay if there are any additional charges for the pickup.
(Ord. 4-23-18A, passed 5-21-18) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, corporation or firm violating any provision of §
50.04, upon conviction thereof shall be guilty of a violation and fined not
less than $10 nor more than $250 per violation. In addition, any person found
in the act of removing recyclable material(s) in violation of §
50.04 shall be subject to confiscation of all recyclable materials in the
possession of that person. Each instance of violation is construed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 830.2-1991, passed 12-9-91)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of §
50.05 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for
each offense and each collection container so collected in violation of §
50.05 shall be deemed a separate offense for which a separate fine may be
levied.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
50.06 shall be fined $10 per occurrence.
(Ord. 2-25-02, passed 3-25-02; Am. Ord. 4-23-18A, passed 5-21-18)
 
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Stop signs
   
70.19   Interference with signals
   
70.20   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.21   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.22   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Speed Humps
   
70.35   Definitions
   
70.36   Eligibility requirements
   
70.37   Speed hump removal and alteration
   
70.38   Speed hump location
   
70.39   Speed humps installation policy
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.  Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD.  Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT.  Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK.  That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB.  The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION.  That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.  All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET.  A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR.  Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK.  When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET.  Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT.  The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY.  The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN.  To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING.  As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET.  Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(`91 Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(`91 Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(`91 Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
(`91 Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
(`91 Code, § 70.05)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”: Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
(`91 Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
(`91 Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
(`91 Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 STOP SIGNS.
   The operator of any vehicle traveling along any street intersecting another
street, subject to control by a properly authorized stop sign, shall bring such
vehicle to a complete stop and shall make no attempt to drive upon, into or
across such streets, protected by a stop sign, unless such vehicle can be
driven without danger of collision with any other vehicle.
(`91 Code, § 70.18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
(`91 Code, § 70.19) Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.20 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
(`91 Code, § 70.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(`91 Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.22 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
(`91 Code, § 70.22)
SPEED HUMPS
§ 70.35 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply for the purposes of this subchapter
only.
   (A)   APPLICATIONS for speed humps include a petition of the affected
property owners.
   (B)   FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION. The process by which streets and highways
are grouped into classes or systems according to the character of service they
are intended to provide. (Highway Functional Classification and Needs Study
Manual)
      (1)   Arterial system: provides for through traffic movement between
areas and across the city with limited access to abutting property, subject to
access controls and curb uses.
      (2)   Collector system: provides for traffic movement between arterials
and local streets, with limited access to abutting properties.
      (3)   Local system: provides direct access to abutting properties.
   (C)   MUTCD. Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (D)   ROADWAYS.  That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   (E)   SPEED HUMPS. Geometric design feature of a roadway, consisting of a
raised area in the roadway pavement surface, extending transversely across the
travel way, whose primary purpose is to reduce the speed of vehicles traveling
along the roadway.
   (F)   STREET.  Refers to the entire street length upon the street on which a
hump is to be installed, which is within the city limits.
(Ord. 3-27-06A, passed 5-22-06)
§ 70.36 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All of the following criteria must be satisfied for a street to be
considered eligible for speed hump installation.
   (A)   Petition.  A petition that documents that a minimum of 75% of all the
property owners (joint property owner, both must sign to be counted) on the
entire length of a street within the city limits supports the installation of
speed humps.
   (B)   Location of the street. The land uses of the properties abutting the
street where the speed hump is proposed must be composed of primarily
residential dwellings. Only public roadways which have been accepted as part of
the city’s roadway system can be considered.
   (C)   Operational characteristics of the street.
      (1)   The street must be used to provide access to abutting primarily
residential properties. The street must not be identified as a collector or
higher level street, as defined by the Jefferson County Comprehensive Plan,
Core Graphic 13.
      (2)   There must be no more than one moving lane of traffic in each
direction.
      (3)   Traffic volumes must be more than 500 but less than 3,000 vehicles,
two-way volume per day.
      (4)   The street must have a speed limit of 25 mph.
(Ord. 3-27-06A, passed 5-22-06; Am. Ord. 8-26-13, passed 8-26-13)
§ 70.37 SPEED HUMP REMOVAL AND ALTERATION.
   The process for speed hump removal or alteration by citizens is the same as
the process for installation with the exception that no petition shall be
considered until five years have expired after installation. The city retains
the power to remove or alter any hump upon its own authority.
(Ord. 3-27-06A, passed 5-22-06; Am. Ord. 8-26-13, passed 8-26-13)
§ 70.38 SPEED HUMP LOCATION.
   The exact speed hump location is subject to traffic safety and operations
requirements.
(Ord. 3-27-06A, passed 5-22-06)
§ 70.39 SPEED HUMPS INSTALLATION POLICY.
   The city will prepare and maintain current design standards, application and
public petition requirements and installation procedures for speed humps.
(Ord. 8-26-13, passed 8-26-13)
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(`91 Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limits
   
71.06   Required lights
   
71.07   Improper license plates
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
   
71.28   Glaring lights prohibited
   
71.29   Muffler required; sounding horns, sirens and the like declared to be a
nuisance
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
Truck Traffic
   
71.60   Load limits
   
71.61   Covering required to prevent escape of contents of vehicle
   
71.62   Compliance of owner; operator
   
71.63   Trucks; slow moving vehicles to be driven in right hand lane
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Littering from vehicles, see §
94.07
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
(Ord. 8-1965, passed 10-26-65)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
(`91 Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (`91 Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
(`91 Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(`91 Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   No operator of a vehicle upon any street of the city shall drive at a
greater speed than is reasonable or prudent, having regard for the traffic, the
use of the highways, and the prevailing conditions; providing, that the maximum
rate of speed at any time shall be 20 miles per hour.
(`91 Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 8-1965, passed 10-26-65) Penalty, see 71.99
§ 71.06 REQUIRED LIGHTS.
   (A)   All two wheel motor vehicles and bicycles shall display in front at
least one headlight, and all other motor vehicles at least two headlights. All
motor vehicles shall display in the rear at least one red taillight, and
bicycles shall have an adequate and effective red reflector.
   (B)   The violation of this section may be excused if the vehicle has the
proper physical equipment but has suffered a light failure, which has been
corrected and the receipt for the repair is exhibited.
(`91 Code, § 71.06) (Ord. 8-1965, passed 10-26-65) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 IMPROPER LICENSE PLATES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle on any street with any
license plate that has expired, was issued for any other vehicle, or is
improperly used in any manner.
(`91 Code, § 71.07) (Ord. 8-1965, passed 10-26-65) Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
(`91 Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(`91 Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(`91 Code, § 71.25) (KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
in such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he is on official business, shall
follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the provisions
of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he drive into, park the
vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where the vehicle has
stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he is directed
otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall, while proceeding
with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (`91 Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (`91 Code, § 71.27) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.28 GLARING LIGHTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle, during the hours when
lights are required, to operate such vehicle with the rays of its headlights
projecting ahead on the high-beam when other vehicles are approaching from the
opposite direction within 500 feet.
(`91 Code, § 71.28) (Ord. 8-1965, passed 10-26-65) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.29 MUFFLER REQUIRED; SOUNDING HORNS, SIRENS AND THE LIKE DECLARED TO BE A
NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle on any street,
unless such motor vehicle is equipped with a sufficient and suitable muffler in
good working condition, or when such muffler is cutout or removed. No cutout
shall be so arranged or connected as to permit the operation or control thereof
by the operator of any motor vehicle while operating such vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to sound any horn, siren or similar instrument,
except by proper public and emergency authorities, unnecessarily or in such
manner as to constitute a nuisance thereby.
(`91 Code, § 71.29) (Ord. 8-1965, passed 10-26-65) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE.  Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT.  A permit required by this subchapter.
(`91 Code, § 71.40)
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(`91 Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
(`91 Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
(`91 Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
(`91 Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(`91 Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
(`91 Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(`91 Code, § 71.47)
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(`91 Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
(`91 Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
(`91 Code, § 71.50)
Cross reference:
Parking on parade routes, see §
72.08
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(`91 Code, § 71.51)
TRUCK TRAFFIC
§ 71.60 LOAD LIMITS.
   No truck shall be operated on the streets of this city with a load in excess
of the lawful limits.
(`91 Code, § 71.60) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.61 COVERING REQUIRED TO PREVENT ESCAPE OF CONTENTS OF VEHICLE.
   No vehicle shall be operated upon any street or public way of the city
unless such vehicle is so constructed or equipped with covering material to
prevent the contents from escaping.
(`91 Code, § 71.61) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.62 COMPLIANCE OF OWNER; OPERATOR.
   The owner and operator of any truck have the same responsibility for
compliance with §§
71.60 and
71.61 of this chapter.
(`91 Code, § 71.62) Penalty, see §
71.99 
§ 71.63 TRUCKS; SLOW MOVING VEHICLES TO BE DRIVEN IN RIGHT HAND LANE.
   Slow moving motor vehicles and all vehicles used or designed to be used for
the pulling or hauling of freight must be operated or driven in single file as
close to the right hand side of the roadway as traffic conditions permit.
(`91 Code, § 71.63) (Ord. 8-1965, passed 10-26-65) Penalty, see §
71.99 
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Whoever violates the speed limit provisions of §
71.05 shall be subject to the same fine set forth in the fine schedule of KRS
189.394.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both. (KRS 189.993(8))
   (D)   Whoever violates the weight regulations set forth in §
71.60 shall be subject to the same fine set forth in the fine schedule of KRS
189.990 (2) (a).
(`91 Code, § 71.99)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on other than driveway prohibited
   
72.08   Parking on parade route
   
72.09   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.10   Owner responsibility
   
72.11   Parking in parks
   
72.12   Display of parked vehicle for sale; washing and repairing of vehicle on
street prohibited
   
72.13   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.14   Loading and unloading of passengers
   
72.15   Use of loading zone restricted
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   [Reserved]
   
72.27   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
Large Vehicles, Trailers, Equipment and Boats
   
72.50   Parking prohibited
   
72.51   Person in control of vehicle
   
72.52   Delivery; loading; unloading permitted
   
72.53   Enforcement
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(`91 Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(`91 Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or traffic-
control device.
   (H)   On any controlled access highway.
   (I)   Within a highway tunnel.
   (J)   No vehicle shall be parked within 15 feet of any fire hydrant.
   (K)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (L)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6)) (`91 Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(`91 Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
(`91 Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
(`91 Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see § 72.21 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON OTHER THAN DRIVEWAY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any vehicle or the owner of any
property where the vehicle is parked to park any vehicle, or any part of the
vehicle, on any part of the yard (including easements) except on the property’s
paved or gravel driveway.
(Ord. 3-17-97A-1996-97, passed 4-21-97)
§ 72.08 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
(`91 Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 -
71.51
§ 72.09 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§ 72.20 through 72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off- street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner’s
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
(`91 Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.10 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(`91 Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
(`91 Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE; WASHING AND REPAIRING OF VEHICLE ON
STREET PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a
motor vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
washing, greasing, painting or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(`91 Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit.
The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time
necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the
parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
(`91 Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 LOADING AND UNLOADING OF PASSENGERS.
   No vehicle shall take on or let out passengers except on the right hand side
of the vehicle which shall be within two feet of the right hand curb or edge of
the street.
(`91 Code, § 72.13) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.15 USE OF LOADING ZONE RESTRICTED.
   “Loading Zone” signs shall be erected at such places along public streets in
front of business establishments and for such time as determined by order of
the legislative body; and no person shall use such area for any other purposes
during the time indicated on the sign. If no time is specified on the sign, it
shall mean between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
(`91 Code, § 72.14) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
(`91 Code, § 72.20)
§ 72.26 [RESERVED].
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
KRS 376.275(2), for the reasonable or agreed charges for the applicable and
reasonable charges assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.923, as
long as it remains in his or her possession.
   (B)   If after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with this KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.932 have not been
paid, the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275
(2), may be sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lien holder have
been notified by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1)
ten days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale
of any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued
charges, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or
release of responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or
responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this
section shall be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by an
existing lienholder pursuant to division (C) of this section.
   (C)   A lien holder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title issued
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail within the
first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928. Such
notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928 shall include the
make, model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner’s name and
last known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and state that
the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then
only ten days of storage may be charged. The lien holder has the right to take
possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and
paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor
vehicle. If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of the
motor vehicle under this section within 45 days of notification, and all
lienholders agree in writing, the towing company or storage facility may obtain
a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax
liens. Nothing in this section shall allow for the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
   (D)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
through 281.936, KRS 359.230, and KRS 376.275 and the owner does not exercise
the right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45
days of notification required under KRS 281.928, the tow company or storage
facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1)) (`91 Code, § 72.22)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized
to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him.
After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle
or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a
fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00
a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of
parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which the prohibition of
parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
(`91 Code, § 72.35) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement. If such
announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
repeated between those hours.
(`91 Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
(`91 Code, § 72.37)
LARGE VEHICLES, TRAILERS,
EQUIPMENT AND BOATS
§ 72.50 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No motor vehicle of any type exceeding 6,000 pounds manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight shall be parked on the street adjacent to any area of the
city zoned single-family residential (R-1 through R-5).
   (B)   No equipment, such as tractors, sweepers, mowers, sprayers, work
trailers or boat trailers, of any type, weight or length, shall be parked on
the street adjacent to any area of the city zoned single- family residential
(R-1 through R-5).
(Ord. 3-22-04A, passed 4-26-04) Penalty, see 72.99
Cross-reference:
   Zoning Code, see
152.01
§ 72.51 PERSON IN CONTROL OF VEHICLE.
   The fact that any motor vehicle which is illegally parked is registered in
the name of a person, firm or corporation shall be considered prima facie proof
that such person was in control of the motor vehicle at the time of such
parking.
(Ord. 3-22-04A, passed 4-26-04)
§ 72.52 DELIVERY; LOADING; UNLOADING PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding the previous sections of this subchapter, it shall not be in
violation to temporarily park a vehicle described in §
72.50 solely for the purpose of delivery, to perform work on-site, or for
loading or unloading.
(Ord. 3-22-04A, passed 4-26-04)
§ 72.53 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any violation of this subchapter shall subject the offender to fines,
penalties, and forfeitures that may be imposed by law, and the city may secure
injunctions and abatement orders, when appropriate, to insure compliance with
its ordinances as authorized by KRS 83A.065.
   (B)   This subchapter may be enforced by any one or a combination of the
remedies authorized by §
72.99.
(Ord. 3-22-04A, passed 4-26-04)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1))
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
72.50 through
72.53 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Criminal.
         (a)   Fined not less than $20 nor more than $100. Where the Kentucky
Revised Statutes mandate a fine higher than that stipulated in this division,
the fine contained in the Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
         (b)   Any continuing violation of §§
72.50 through
72.53 shall be considered a separate offense for each day on which a violation
continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed therefor.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Civil penalty in an amount equal to two times the minimum fine
prescribed in this division (B), with a minimum civil penalty of $50 for each
violation.
         (b)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance
violation. As used herein, CITED shall mean notified of the violation and the
penalty in writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the
official attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative
to or in conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
(`91 Code, § 72.99) (Am. Ord. 3-22-04A, passed 4-26-04)
Cross-reference:
   Fine schedule for ordinances administered by Code Enforcement Board, see §
40.11
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
(`91 Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(`91 Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(`91 Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
(`91 Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
(`91 Code, § 73.99)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
APPENDIX: PERMIT APPLICATION FORM
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   TREES
      
97.   SMALL CELLULAR TOWER SITES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Keeping of animals
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   License required
   
90.17   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.18   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.19   Dogs running at large
   
90.20   Noise disturbance
   
90.21   Impoundment
   
90.22   Reclaiming impounded dog
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT.  The relinquishment of all rights and claims by the owner to
the animal. (KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER.  Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
(`91 Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon or enclosure
without the consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
(`91 Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any
animal other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food,
drink, space, or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division (A)(3) shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) (`91 Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) (`91 Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
(`91 Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer or any person authorized by
the Board of Agriculture may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or
killed, any animal found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or
appearing to be injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful
purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his agent at
his last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be turned over
to the nearest humane society or animal shelter or disposed of as the custodian
may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100) (`91 Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep or
cause to be kept any animal or animals in such a manner or such number as to
interfere with the quiet enjoyment of the property of another. This section
shall apply to excessive noise, offensive odors, unsightliness or any other way
or act which may diminish the value or enjoyment of the property of another.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all property, persons, firms, individuals,
corporations located within or doing business within the city.
(`91 Code, § 90.07) (Ord. 26-1971, passed - -71) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG.  Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
(`91 Code, § 90.15)
§ 90.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
90.17 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
(`91 Code, § 90.16) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner, and name of the dog. At the time of the registration
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by City Council for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
(`91 Code, § 90.17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
(`91 Code, § 90.18) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either
licensed or unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to
be at large and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden,
schoolyard, playground, or on any other public or private property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, or person in charge of a dog to
permit such dog to be on the streets of the city unless the dog is on a leash,
or otherwise under the absolute control of the owner or his agent. (Ord. 6-
1965, passed 11-23-65)
(`91 Code, § 90.19) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
(`91 Code, § 90.20) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound such dog or have
such dog impounded in the appropriate place.
(`91 Code, § 90.21)
§ 90.22 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
(`91 Code, § 90.22)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense. (KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500. (KRS 436.600)
(`91 Code, § 90.99)
Cross-reference:
   Fine schedule for ordinances administered by Code Enforcement Board, see §
40.11
CHAPTER 91: STREET AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
   
91.07   Repair and maintenance of sidewalks
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements; public may testify
   
91.17   Effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
   
91.34   Control of rubbish
   
91.35   Obstructions in right-of-way
 
   
91.99   Penalty
   
Appendix:   Permit Application Form
Cross-reference:
   Sidewalks and alleys to be kept free from litter, see §
94.05
   Small cellular tower sites within city right-of-way, see
Ch. 97
 
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city
official, to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of
the city unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to
commencement of the work.
(`91 Code, § 91.01)
   (B)   An authorized city official shall require all applicants seeking
permission to make any cuts, installation, or closure of roadways; or to move
overweight and/or over-dimension equipment within the boundary of the rights-
of-way of city roads, to make application for a permit using the form set forth
in the appendix following this chapter. The authorized city official shall not
grant any permits unless the above mentioned application has been fully filled
out, signed, executed and delivered by the applicant. All applicants must be on
the approved contractor list with Jefferson County Public Works.
   (C)   If the application is granted, a permit fee of $20 shall be charged
all applicants. Applicant agrees that the provisions printed on the reverse
side of the application will govern the work of moving, and that the same are a
part of the application as if appearing in the body thereof.
   (D)   All work completed within the city rights-of- way shall be inspected
by the City Engineer prior to the release of the requirements contained on the
reverse side of the application.
   (E)   In the event of an emergency, an approved contractor may proceed with
work; however, an application shall be filed with the city within two business
days.
(Ord. 150.17-1993, passed 10-11-93; Am. Ord. 2-26-01A, passed 3-26-01) Penalty,
see §
91.99(B)
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(`91 Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
(`91 Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(`91 Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(`91 Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall for the faithful performance of the work. The Mayor, if authorized by
City Council, may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
(`91 Code, § 91.06)
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
§ 91.07 REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The owners of property abutting sidewalks in the City are required to
repair that part of the sidewalk adjoining property respectively belonging to
them at their own expense, by repairing any holes, uneven surface, and other
defective places therein, by using materials as nearly similar as possible to
that of which the sidewalk is constructed.
   (B)   The city, through its authorized representative, may inspect such
sidewalks and ascertain the existence of defects and then notify, in writing,
the owners of the property abutting that part of the sidewalk which is found to
be defective, to repair it at their own expense within 30 days after the
delivery of the notice.
   (C)    In the event the owner fails to make necessary repairs, the city
shall have the necessary repairs made and will assess the cost of repair to the
abutting property owner and notify the property owner of the assessment in
writing. In the event the owner fails to remit the costs within 30 days of the
assessment notice, the city shall take the necessary steps to place a lien
against the real property of the abutting properly owner in the office of the
County Clerk of Jefferson County, in the amount of the unpaid assessment.
   (D)   If the sidewalk being repaired is within any right-of-way of the city,
and the property owner can produce written proof detailing the cost of its
repair, and the city can ascertain the validity of this proof with a reasonable
of certainty; then in that event, the city shall pay 50% of the total cost of
such repairs. Such proof must be supplied to the city within 60 days of the
repair and it is the property owner’s duty to make application for this
reimbursement within this time period. The city shall not be obligated to make
a reimbursement after this time period bas expired.
   (E)   If the sidewalk being repaired is within any right-of-way of the city,
and the city inspects the sidewalk and finds it defective, then in that event
the city has the option of repairing the defective sidewalk at the city’s
expense and then assessing the abutting property owner 50% of the total repair
costs. Written notice of the repair shall be sent to the property owner 30 days
prior to the repairs being made. The city will assess the cost of repairs to
the abutting property owner and notify the property owner of the assessment in
writing. In the event the owner fails to remit the costs within 30 days of the
assessment notice, the city shall take the necessary steps to place a lien
against the real property of the abutting property owner in the office of the
County Clerk of Jefferson County, in the amount of the unpaid assessment.
(Ord. 3-27-00A, passed 4-24-00)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100) (`91 Code, § 91.15)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1)) (`91 Code, § 91.16)
§ 91.17 EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2)) (`91 Code, § 91.17)
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3)) (`91 Code, § 91.18)
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4)) (`91 Code, § 91.19)
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused disasters
nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5)) (`91 Code, § 91.20)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(`91 Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(`91 Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(`91 Code, § 91.32) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Sidewalks and alleys to be kept free from litter, see §
94.05
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, a
reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed 12 hours after the abatement
of any storm during which the snow and ice may have accumulated.
(`91 Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34 CONTROL OF RUBBISH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or persons, to throw or place any
dirt, rubbish, nails, tacks, spikes, wire, broken bits of metal, glass,
pottery-ware or any sharp or dangerous rubbish, stone, or metal of any kind in
any street, alley or public way of the city, or allow any such item to
accumulate on private property.
   (B)   Further, no owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of any and every
building and place of business within the limits of the city shall allow the
accumulation of the above named objects so as to be seen or observed from the
public ways of the city.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of any
and every building and place of business within the limits of the city to
provide a suitable and sufficient receptacle for rubbish, refuse, and the like
resulting from or existing because of the operation of a business or other
commercial pursuit upon said property.
(`91 Code, § 91.34) (Ord. 9-1965, passed 10-26-65) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Sidewalks and alleys to be kept free from litter, see §
94.05
§ 91.35 OBSTRUCTIONS IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, locate or maintain any
post, rail, fence, wires, concrete pyramids or other similar obstruction upon
any street, sidewalk or public right-of-way.
   (B)   Any person in violation of this section shall be sent notification of
the violation by an authorized city official, and given five business days to
remove any or all obstructions.
(Ord. 6-28-04B, passed 7-26-04) Penalty, see 91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall,
upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
(`91 Code, § 91.99)
   (B)   There shall be a penalty of up to $200 per day for persons failing to
complete the application process set forth in §
91.01. Each day of non- compliance shall be considered a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of 91.35 shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each
offense, and each day shall be deemed a separate offense for which a separate
fine may be levied.
(Ord. 2-26-01A, passed 3-26-01; Am. Ord. 6-28-04B, passed 7-26-04)
Cross-reference:
   Fine schedule for ordinances administered by Code Enforcement Board, see §
40.11
APPENDIX: PERMIT APPLICATION FORM
                                          Date:
                                                
                                                                               _________________                                                
(Name of Applicant)                                    (Address)
hereby makes application to the City of Lyndon, Kentucky for a permit to:
   (Explain nature of work to be done)
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
         (Location of work to be done or route of proposed move)
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   (Date and time of proposed work or move and estimated time of completion)
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   Applicant herewith submits in duplicate a sketch or drawing showing the
location and proposed construction of the work covered by this application. If
this application is for a permit to move overweight or over-dimension equipment
or house, complete information as to size and type of equipment or house to be
moved will be given above, along with route, date, time, and period of
accomplishment of the move.
   Applicant agrees that if this application is granted, the provisions printed
on the reverse side will govern the work or moving, and that the same are a
part of the application as if appearing in the body hereof.
   Applicant further expressly agrees to save and hold harmless City of Lyndon,
Kentucky and its City Council, as a body and individually and any of its agents
and employees, from any and all liability of every kind whatsoever, which may
result from work or moving performed under this application or permit.
                                        ________________
                                       Company Name
                                       By  ________________
Approved  ________________
Date  ________________
Submit application and sketch in duplicate.
   After approval:
Original will be returned to applicant
Copy will be retained by City Official
   Upon completion of work or moving:
Applicant will return the original to City Official
(Ord. 150.17-1993, passed 10-11-93)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
   
92.07   Placement of temporary storage structures and dumpsters
   
92.08   Chronic nuisance
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 - 411.570
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCE.  Items such as stoves, refrigerators, freezers, washing machines,
dryers, dishwashers, and water heaters.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS.  Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   HOUSEHOLD ITEMS.  Boxes, bags (plastic, paper, etc.). paper, TV sets,
furniture, toys, clothing, and other items not intended for display or storage
in an outdoor environment.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION.  Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days. Operative condition shall mean a licensable
vehicle which has a current, valid license and is in self-propelled condition;
and other farm or construction equipment which is fully assembled and which is
capable of its intended operation.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE.  Public nuisance and in addition those conditions listed in §
92.03.
   OWNER.  Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have legal title to any land or improvements thereon;
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling unit as owners,
or as executor, executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian
of the estate of any owner. Any such person thus representing the actual owner
shall be bound to comply with the provisions of these rules and regulations
upon the owner.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for such a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL.  Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE.  In a dangerous condition; having defective or
missing parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use
as a conveyance.
(`91 Code, § 92.01) (Am. Ord. 9-15-97B-1997-98, passed 10-20-97)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(`91 Code, § 92.02) (Am. Ord. 9-15-97B-1997-98, passed 10-20-97)
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Environmental nuisance.
      (1)   Household items. The outdoor storage or display of household items.
      (2)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or
other object standing in such a condition that it is likely to, if the
condition is allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or
cause hurt, damage, or injury to persons or property by the falling thereof or
of parts thereof.
      (3)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
      (4)   Excessive plant growth. Any plant growth exceeding 12 inches in
height, excessive accumulations of grass, weeds, rubbish, leaves, dead tree, or
other abandoned vegetation; other than crops, trees, bushes, flowers or other
ornamental plants.
      (5)   Disposal or accumulation of materials. Disposal or accumulation of
any foul, decaying, or putrescent substances or other offensive materials in or
on any lot, tract of land, street, highway or any sidewalk or alley abutting
any of these which shall be reason of such offensive odor.
   (B)   Health hazard. Any accumulation of rubbish, plant material, scrap
metal, car parts, appliances, or any other material which attracts vermin,
rodents, or insects, or is otherwise injurious to the public health.
   (C)   Interference with use of others. Any condition which materially
interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners/occupants of adjacent
property.
   (D)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage. The
growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (G)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
(`91 Code, § 92.03) (Am. Ord. 9-15-97B-1997-98, passed 10-20-97) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall give five days’ written notice to remedy the nuisance situation.
The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of property,
as it appears on the current tax assessment roll. Upon the failure of the owner
of the property to comply, the authorized city official is authorized to send
employees upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
381.770 and this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens,
except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceeding. In addition to this remedy or any other remedy authorized
by law, the owner of a property upon which a lien has been attached pursuant to
this section shall be personally liable for the amount of the lien, including
all interest, civil penalties, and other charges and the city may bring a civil
action against the owner and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt owed.
(`91 Code, § 92.04)
Statutory Reference:
   Similar State law, see KRS 65.8840
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(`91 Code, § 92.05)
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare, the City Council may suspend the license of the person or
persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause a notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the licensee, at
the premises where the licensed business or activity is being conducted. The
notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the suspension, and
the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
(`91 Code, § 92.06)
§ 92.07 PLACEMENT OF TEMPORARY STORAGE STRUCTURES AND DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
       DUMPSTERS. Storage container units designed for waste materials of a
size greater than 100 gallons, not including any of the containers provided by
or approved for use by any waste disposal company hired by the city for
garbage, yard waste or recycling.
      TEMPORARY or PORTABLE STORAGE UNITS. Sometimes referred to as PODS, these
units are defined as any storage device, trailer, vehicle, or other container
or receptacle (with or without wheels) designed and used primarily for the
temporary storage of building material, household goods, personal items and
other material on a limited basis. The term shall not include dumpsters, which
are described separately herein.
   (B)   Regulation: temporary storage units and dumpsters.
      (1)   Temporary storage units and temporary dumpster units in all zoning
districts shall be allowed only upon the issuance of a permit by the City of
Lyndon. Permits shall be displayed on the outside of the container in such
manner as to be plainly visible from the nearest street. The fee for permits
shall be $15 per unit, except that there shall be no fee if such containers are
to be located on a site for less than 72 hours.
      (2)   Each permit application must be filled out and signed by the owners
of the lot on which the temporary storage unit is to be located and contain all
relevant contact information for both the owners and the company from which the
unit is to be rented. The permit application shall be accompanied by a drawing
showing where the unit is to be located and whenever possible, the unit must be
located on the lot behind the front wall of the principal structure and on a
hard surface. Such unit shall be located no closer than ten feet to any
property line and shall not be located in any required rear, front or side
yard, or any public right-of-way. If the lot configuration makes it impossible
for the storage unit to be placed, a case-by-case review of the placement shall
be made by the City of Lyndon as to whether to issue a special permit for
another location on the lot, or adjacent to the lot, given due regard to the
public health, safety and aesthetics.
      (3)   No temporary storage or dumpster unit may be used to contain any
hazardous material. Any possible hazardous material must be disclosed to the
City of Lyndon at the time the permit application is made for review by the
proper city official, prior to the issuance of any permit.
      (4)   Storage and dumpster units must be in good condition, with no
significant rust or deterioration. They cannot be greater than eight feet in
height, ten feet in width and 20 feet in length. No more than two can be placed
on any residential lot at one time, except for commercially zoned properties,
provided they also meet the minimum requirement of the General Development/
Detailed Development Plan for the site; binding elements, and current
regulation of such items in the Metro Louisville Zoning Regulations.
      (5)   Permits are good for one period of 30 consecutive days. At the
expiration of the 30-day period, applicants may seek to extend their permits
for one additional 30-day period by seeking an extension for cause from the
City of Lyndon at a cost of $25.
      (6)   No additional permit may be issued in any calendar year in which a
permit has been granted until the expiration of 45 days from the end of the
permit and/or extension term. There are no extensions from additional permits.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Commercial or industrial zoned property, which has properly applied
for and been granted by the Louisville Metro Zoning Authority the right to
locate temporary storage on the site, is exempt from this regulation as it
relates to storage units. This exemption is utterly conditional on full
compliance with the General Development/Detailed Development Plan for the site,
binding elements, and current regulation of such items in the Metro Louisville
Zoning Regulations.
      (2)   Commercial, office or multi-family zoned property whose garbage
pickup is through a permanent dumpster pickup is exempt from this regulation,
as it relates to dumpster units. This exemption is utterly conditional on full
compliance with the General Development/Detailed Development Plan for the site,
binding elements, and current regulation of such items in the Metro Louisville
Zoning Regulations.
      (3)   In the case of emergencies, such as floods, wind storms, fires or
other acts of God, or man-made disasters, the Mayor shall be allowed to suspend
the enforcement of this chapter as to the city as a whole, or areas of the
city, for a time period appropriate for the community to deal with such
emergency conditions.
      (4)   Due to the physical requirements of construction, or reconstruction
of buildings and houses, special rules shall govern both the temporary storage
units and dumpsters at construction or reconstruction sites. On any site on
which a building permit is to be issued, prior to the city issuing a letter of
compliance, the applicant shall submit all information required under divisions
(B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section; however, the Mayor is authorized to extend
the time the units may remain on site, the number of units allowed and the
locations where they may be placed. This decision shall be made with due regard
to the physical limitation of the work to be accomplished on the site, on a
case-by-case basis.
(Ord. 6-25-07, passed 7-23-07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 CHRONIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Chronic nuisance property - violations.
      (1)   Any property within the City of Lyndon, Kentucky, that becomes a
chronic nuisance property, as defined herein, is in violation of this chapter
and subject to its remedies.
      (2)   Any person who permits property under his or her ownership or
control to be a chronic nuisance property, as defined herein, shall be in
violation of this chapter and subject to its remedies.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Lyndon.
      CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY.  Property on which three or more nuisance
activities exist or have occurred during any 60 day period or on which 12 or
more nuisance activities exist or have occurred during any 12 month period.
      CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A Code Enforcement Officer as defined in KRS
65.8805.
      CONTROL. The authority to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or
govern property, or conduct what occurs on a property.
      GOOD CAUSE. Circumstances beyond the ability of a person acting with
reasonable care and diligence to control.
      NUISANCE ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Any of the following activities, behaviors or conduct:
            1.   Harassment, as defined in KRS 525.070 through 525.080.
            2.   Public intoxication or alcohol intoxication, as defined in KRS
525.100 or KRS 222.202.
            3.   Disorderly conduct as defined in KRS 525.055 or KRS 525.060.
            4.   Murder, manslaughter, or reckless homicide as defined in KRS
507.020, 507.030, 507.040, or 507.050.
            5.   Rape, sodomy, sexual abuse, sexual misconduct, indecent
Exposure, or unlawful use of an electronic device to induce a minor to engage
in sexual activities, as defined in KRS 510.010 through 510.155.
            6.   Assault, menacing, wanton endangerment, terroristic
threatening, criminal abuse, stalking, or disarming a police officer, as
defined in KRS 508.010 through 508.160.
            7.   Burglary or criminal trespass, as defined in KRS 511.010
through 511.090.
            8.   Criminal mischief, as defined in KRS 512.010 through 512.060.
            9.   Arson, as defined in KRS 513.010 through 513.040.
            10.   Theft, as defined in KRS 514.010 through 514.090.
            11.   Receiving stolen property, as defined in KRS 514.110.
            12.   Robbery, as defined in KRS 515.010 through 515.030.
            13.   Prostitution, promoting prostitution, permitting
prostitution, or human trafficking, as defined in KRS 529.010 through 529.110.
            14.   Endangering the welfare of a minor or unlawful transaction
with a minor as defined in KRS 530.060 through 530.080.
            15.   Distribution of obscene matter promoting sale of obscenity,
or voyeurism, as defined in KRS 531.010 through 531.110.
            16.   Sexual exploitation of minors, as defined in KRS 531.300
through 531.370.
            17.   Drug possession or trafficking, as defined in KRS 218A.010
through 218A.1444.
            18.   Weapons related offenses, as defined in KRS 527.010 through
527.210.
            19.   Violations of protection orders, as defined in KRS 403.763.
            20.   Alcohol related offenses, as defined in City of Lyndon
Ordinances
Chapter 111.
            21.   Noise violations, as defined in §
92.03.
            22.   Any violation of any ordinance of the City of Lyndon, or a
violation of any state or federal law, statute or regulation.
            23.   Any attempt to commit and/or conspiracy to commit any of the
activities, behaviors or conduct listed in this section.
         (b)   To qualify, all NUISANCE ACTIVITIES must be based on either:
            1.   Personal observation of a Police Officer, or Code Enforcement
Officer; or
            2.   A determination by a Police Officer, or Code Enforcement
Officer, either after an investigation or following a sworn statement of a
person who personally witnessed the alleged incident that the alleged NUISANCE
ACTIVITIES did, in fact, occur.
      PERMIT. To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act.
      PERSON. Any natural person, agent, association, firm, partnership,
corporation, limited liability company or other entity capable of owning,
occupying or using property in Lyndon, Kentucky.
      PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTY. Any person who, on the occasion of a
nuisance activity, has entered, patronized, visited, or attempted to enter,
patronize or visit, or waited to enter, patronize or visit a property or any
person present on a property. PERSON ASSOCIATED WITH THE PROPERTY includes,
without limitation, any officer, director, customer, agent, employee, or any
independent contractor of a property, the person in charge, or an owner of a
property.
      PERSON IN CHARGE. Any person with actual or constructive possession of a
property, including but not limited to an owner or occupant of property under
his or her ownership or control. When an owner of the property and the occupant
of a property under his or her ownership or control are not the same person,
the PERSON IN CHARGE shall include both such persons.
      PROPERTY. Any property, including land and that which is affixed,
incidental or appurtenant to land, including but not limited to any business or
residence, parking area, loading area, landscaping, building or structure or
any separate part, unit or portion thereof, or any business equipment, whether
or not permanent. For PROPERTY consisting of more than one unit, PROPERTY may
be limited to the unit or the portion of the property on which any nuisance
activity has occurred or is occurring, but includes areas of the property used
in common by all units of property including without limitation other
structures erected on the property and areas used for parking, loading and
landscaping.
      The Chief of Police or the designated Enforcement Officer for any police
department contracted for services by the City of Lyndon.
      POLICE OFFICER. A Police Officer as defined in KRS 15.420
      RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD. A real property owner of property upon which is
located one or more dwelling units leased or otherwise rented to tenants solely
for residential purposes, or a mobile home park or other permanent or semi
permanent site at which lots are leased or otherwise rented to tenants for the
parking of a manufactured home, mobile home, or recreational vehicle that is
used solely for residential purposes. RESIDENTIAL LANDLORD does not include the
owner of a hotel, motel, or a college or university dormitory.
   (C)   Procedure - city enforcement.
      (1)   When the Police Chief, a Code Enforcement Officer or the designee
of the Police Chief or Code Enforcement Board receives information documenting
the existence of activities which qualify as nuisance activities:
         (a)   The Police Chief, a Code Enforcement Officer shall independently
review such report(s) to determine whether a chronic nuisance property as
defined in division (B) of this section established by the information.
         (b)   Upon a determination that a chronic nuisance property exists,
the Police Chief, or Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a notice of violation
under the City of Lyndon Code of Ordinances to the person in charge that the
property has been determined to be a chronic nuisance property and request an
abatement plan from the person in charge.
         (c)   The notice to the person in charge, shall contain the following
information:
            1.   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property.
            2.   A statement that the Police Chief, or Code Enforcement Officer
has determined the property to be a chronic nuisance property with a concise
description of the nuisance activities leading to this determination.
            3.   A demand that the person in charge respond within ten days to
the Police Chief, or Code Enforcement Officer by either describing the actions
the person in charge intends to take to abate the nuisance activities,
(abatement plan), or indicating good cause as to why the person in charge
cannot abate the nuisance activities.
            4.   That an agreed abatement plan must be reached with the Police
Chief, or Code Enforcement Officer within 30 days from the date of the notice
of determination of chronic nuisance property.
            5.   That if the nuisance activities are not abated and good cause
for failure to abate is not shown, a citation under the Lyndon Code of
Ordinances may be issued.
            6.   That permitting the existence of a chronic nuisance property
is a violation of this chapter.
            7.   That the above remedies are in addition to those otherwise
provided by law.
            8.   The notice may be delivered in person, or sent registered mail
with return receipt requested. The notice may be delivered to the property
itself, or to the mailing address of the owner of the property as listed on the
city tax roll, or to any other address that is likely to give the person in
charge notice of the determination of the Police Chief, or Code Enforcement
Officer.
            9.   The failure of any person to receive notice shall not
invalidate or otherwise affect the proceedings under this chapter.
      (2)   The Police Chief, or Code Enforcement Officer may issue a citation
where:
         (a)   The person in charge fails to respond within ten days from the
date of the notice of determination of chronic nuisance property by the Police
Chief, or Code Enforcement Officer; or
         (b)   No agreeable written abatement plan is reached within 30 days
from the notice of determination of chronic nuisance property by the Police
Chief, or Code Enforcement Officer and the person in charge fails to establish
one of the affirmative defenses provided in division (C)(6) or (7) of this
section; or
         (c)   The person in charge fails to abate the nuisance activities from
the property as required by the agreed abatement plan; or
         (d)   The person in charge fails to comply continuously with all
conditions of the written abatement plan for a period of one year.
      (3)   When the person in charge includes both a person with actual or
constructive possession of the property and a legal owner of the property, both
people must agree to any proposed abatement plan within the time allotted under
division (C)(1)(c)4. of this section. Failure of both to agree to a proposed
abatement plan shall result in a finding by the Police Chief, or Code
Enforcement Officer that the abatement plan is not agreeable under subsection
(C)(2)(b) of this section.
      (4)   Failure to respond, failure to abate the nuisance activities, or
failure to propose an abatement plan shall be prima facie evidence of lack of
cooperativeness of the person in charge. Failure to execute or comply with any
abatement plan shall be prima facie evidence of lack of good faith in
mitigating or correcting the situation.
      (5)   When a person in charge makes a response to the Police Chief or
Code Enforcement Officer as required in this division (C), conduct or
statements made in connection with the response do not constitute an admission
that any nuisance activities have occurred or are occurring. This subsection
does not require exclusion of any evidence that is otherwise admissible or
offered for any other purpose.
      (6)   Residential landlord affirmative defense. A residential landlord
has an absolute defense to a charge under this section if they establish by a
preponderance of the evidence that the basis for the charge is the actions or
omissions of their tenant(s) and the residential landlord establishes all of
the following:
         (a)   That the residential landlord undertakes a reasonably
appropriate screening process for prospective tenants including diligence into
the criminal background of prospective tenants, which shall include, at a
minimum, an online search and inquiry with the tenant into their criminal
background;
         (b)   That the residential landlord include language in their leases
with tenants that provides that violations of federal, state, or local laws by
tenants or their guests is grounds for eviction with 30 days or less notice;
         (c)   That the residential landlord, upon written notice by the city
that a nuisance activity has occurred on their property within the prior 30
days, commences an eviction action against the tenant whose action or omission
forms the basis of the charge, and diligently prosecutes that action to
completion, irrespective of any ultimate ruling by a court on the merits of
that action. A residential landlord shall not be responsible for prosecuting a
forcible entry and detainer action against the tenant or their guests whose
action or omission forms the basis of the charge if the City of Fort Mitchell
fails to give the notice provided in this section.
      (7)   Good cause affirmative defense. Any person charged under this
section has an absolute defense to a charge under this section if they
establish by a preponderance of the evidence that:
         (a)   The person charged has taken all appropriate actions to deter
and prevent the nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge on their
property;
         (b)   The nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge was not
the result of the actions or omissions of person charged, their authorized
guests or any other person residing in their household; and
         (c)   The nuisance activity that forms the basis of the charge was not
permitted by the person charged.
   (D)   Procedure - resident enforcement. Lyndon residents, affected by an
alleged chronic nuisance property, may elect to provide a sworn complaint to
the Graymoor-Devondale Police Department, or Lyndon Code Enforcement Officer
which may be used by the Police Department or Code Enforcement Officer in their
enforcement of this section.
   (E)   Commencement of actions; remedies; burden of proof.
      (1)   In the event a citation is issued for a chronic nuisance property,
the person in charge shall have those rights and shall otherwise be subject to
the procedures and provisions set forth in the City of Lyndon Code of
Ordinances. If the Code Enforcement Board determines that the property is a
chronic nuisance property, then it shall issue such fine and/or take such other
action consistent with the provisions of the City of Lyndon Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   In addition, whenever the Code Enforcement Board determines that a
chronic nuisance exists, the Board shall forward such determination to the
Mayor. Based on such determination, the Mayor may suspend or revoke the
occupational license of any person conducting any business upon the property
where the chronic nuisance exists.
   (F)   Summary closure. The city, through its City Attorney, may also
condemnation procedures as allowed by Kentucky Revised Statutes. Such an action
shall be based on evidence showing that nuisance activities exist or have
occurred on the property and that action is necessary to avoid a threat to
public welfare and safety. Proceedings to obtain an order of condemnation shall
be governed by the provisions of applicable Kentucky law.
(Ord. 11-24-14, passed 12-15-14)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s continued violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Violation of §
92.07.
      (1)   Criminal.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
92.07 shall be guilty of a violation and fined not less than $20 nor more than
$100.
         (b)   Where Kentucky Revised Statutes mandates a fine higher than that
stipulated herein, the fine contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes shall apply.
         (c)   Any continuing violation of §
92.07 shall be considered a separate and distinct offense for each day on which
a violation occurs or continues, and a separate penalty may be imposed
therefor.
      (2)   Civil.
         (a)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
92.07 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount equal to two
times the minimum fine prescribed in this division, with a minimum civil
penalty of $50 for each violation.
         (b)   The civil penalty provided herein may be recovered by the city
in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within 20 days after the offender has been cited for the ordinance
violation. As used herein, CITED shall mean notified of the violation and the
penalty in writing by an elected or appointed official of the city or the
official attorney for the city. The civil penalty may be used as an alternative
to or in conjunction with the criminal penalties authorized herein.
   (C)   Violation of §
92.08.
      (1)   Criminal. Notwithstanding the civil penalties or the general
criminal penalties set forth in this §
92.99, whoever violates any provision of the Lyndon Chronic Nuisance Ordinance,
as set forth in §
92.08, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $500 and/or imprisoned up to 12 months for each offense. Each day’s
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Civil. 
         (a)   If a citation for a violation of any provision of the Lyndon
Chronic Nuisance Ordinance, as set forth in §
92.08 is not contested by the person charged with the violation, the civil fine
to be imposed for each offense shall be $250 for the first offense, $500 for
the second offense, $1,000 for the third offense, $2,500 for the fourth
offense, and $7,500 for the fifth offense and any offence thereafter. Each
day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
         (b)   If a citation is contested and a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board is requested, the maximum civil fine which may be imposed at
the discretion of the Board shall be from $100 to $500 for the first offense,
from $250 to $1,500 for the second offense, from $500 to $2,500 for the third
offense, from $1,000 to $5,000 for the fourth offense, and from $5,000 to
$10,000 for the fifth offense and any offence thereafter. Each day’s continued
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(`91 Code, § 92.99) (Am. Ord. 6-25-07, passed 7-23-07; Am. Ord. 11-24-14,
passed 12-15-14)
Cross-reference:
   Fine schedule for ordinances administered by Code Enforcement Board, see §
40.11
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Explosives and fireworks in parks, see §
95.18
   Adoption of Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code, see §
150.03
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   FIREWORKS means any composition or device for the purpose of producing
a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and
which meets the definition of CONSUMER FIREWORKS as defined in division (B) of
this section or DISPLAY fireworks as defined in division (D) of this section
and as set forth in the United States Department of Transportation’s (DOT)
hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not include:
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks that are suitable for use by the
public, designed primarily to produce visible effects by combustion, and comply
with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the
U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of
pyrotechnic contents of these devices are limited as enumerated in this
chapter. Some small devices designed to produce audible effects are included,
such as whistling devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of
explosive composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of
explosive composition. CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer
Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, are classified
as Division 1.4G explosives by the United States Department of Transportation,
and include the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to one hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition
per item. Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not
exceed five (5) grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which
contain no magnesium and which contain less than one hundred (100) grams of
composition per item are not included in this category, in accordance with DOT
regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
seventy-five (75) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of
colored sparks, and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This
device may be provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike
fountain), a wood or plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or
a wood or cardboard handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When
more than one (1) tube is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed two hundred (200) grams, or five hundred (500) grams
if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at
least one-half (½) inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to
fifty (50) grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of
a cylindrical fountain. When more than one (1) cone is mounted on a common
base, the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed two hundred (200) grams,
or five hundred (500) grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the
base by a distance of at least one-half (½) inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to one
hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is
produced. May be spike, base or hand-held. When more than one (1) tube is
mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed two
hundred (200) grams, or five hundred (500) grams if the tubes are separated
from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-half (½) inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one (1) or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than sixty (60) grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain
more than two hundred (200) grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition,
the wheel revolves, producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a
whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than twenty
(20) grams of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but
intended to be placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color
is produced by the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than one hundred (100) grams of pyrotechnic
composition that produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one (1)
end of the tube is ignited to make the device function.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than twenty (20) grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a
wooden stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A
burst of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to sixty (60) grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to one hundred thirty (130) milligrams of explosive composition per report,
or other devices are propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device
with no internal components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell”
refers to a device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in
the air. A mine or shell device may contain more than one (1) tube provided the
tubes fire in sequence upon ignition of one (1) external fuse. The term “cake”
refers to a dense-packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical
composition including lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed
two hundred (200) grams. The maximum quantity of lift charge in any one (1)
tube of a mine or shell device shall not exceed twenty (20) grams, and the
maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any component shall not exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total weight of chemical composition in the
component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of sixty
(60) grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and
visible or audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell
shall not exceed one and three-fourths (1-3/4) inches. In addition, the maximum
quantity of lift charge in any shell shall not exceed twenty (20) grams, and
the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total weight of chemical composition in the
shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in a kit, including
lift charge, shall not exceed four hundred (400) grams. The user lowers a shell
into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse extending out of
the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with another
shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of firing twice
the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each package of
multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label requirements of
the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than one hundred thirty (130) milligrams
of explosive composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light
is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK
NOISEMAKERS and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department
of Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake- like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as
the pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive
composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device explodes
producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   The term DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic devices or large
fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes, but is not limited
to, firecrackers containing more than two (2) grains (130 mg) of explosive
composition, aerial shells containing more than forty (40) grams of pyrotechnic
composition, and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as “consumer fireworks.” Display fireworks are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the United States Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) are not legal for retail sale but
are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708) (`91 Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except for the following:
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals. Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person. COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five (5) public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an
employee possessor. A permit under this division shall be issued only to a
competent display operator holding an ATF license. At least one (1) competent
display operator shall be on site during display set-up and firing. This
competent display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit application, as
signed by the local authority having jurisdiction as identified in this
section, on site and at all times the display is in place, and shall be
presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal or local fire chief. All public
displays that require issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code
for Fireworks Display (adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State
Fire Marshal at least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. After the
privilege is granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for
the display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
division shall be transferable. For the purpose of this division (A), PUBLIC
DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or
pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as licensed by
the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a
competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display area shall
be at least eighteen (18) years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of
Housing, Buildings and Construction with recommendation from the state fire
marshal shall promulgate administrative regulations in accordance with KRS
Chapter 13A to administer the provisions of this division. The regulations
shall address the process by which permits are issued and any other procedures
that are reasonably necessary to effectuate this subsection.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present
the permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in§
93.01 and as permitted pursuant to §
93.03.
(KRS 227.710) (`91 Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal in
accordance with KRS 227.715, and display its registration certificate in a
conspicuous location at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have a working
fire extinguisher at the site, in compliance with NFPA Pamphlet 10.
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715(3) - (6)) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) (`91 Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730) (`91 Code, § 93.04)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of sixty (60)
days, the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of sixty (60) days, the seized fireworks may be offered
for sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “Display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five (5) business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three (3) consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks
within ten (10) days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire
Marshal may proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the
fireworks within ten (10) days of the date of the last publication, a hearing
as set out in paragraph (a) of this subsection shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750) (`91 Code, § 93.05)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
(`91 Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(`91 Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both. (KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
(`91 Code, § 93.99)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Littering prohibited
   
94.03   Prevention of scattering
   
94.04   Upsetting or tampering with receptacles
   
94.05   Sidewalks and alleys to be kept free from litter
   
94.06   Owner to maintain private premises
   
94.07   Littering from vehicles
   
94.08   Littering from aircraft
   
94.09   Litter in parks
   
94.10   Distribution of handbills
   
94.11   Posting notices prohibited
   
94.12   Duty of contractor to keep construction sites free from litter
   
94.13   Loading and unloading docks to be kept free from litter
   
94.14   Litter receptacles required
   
94.15   Mayor authorized to prepare guidelines
   
94.16   Removal of litter from private property by city; lien
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT.  Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed
for navigation or for flight in the air. AIRCRAFT shall include helicopters and
lighter-than-air powered craft and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE.  A container of watertight construction with
a tight fitting lid or cover capable of preventing the escape of contents
within. Such receptacles shall have handles or other means for safe and
convenient handling and be of such size or sufficient capacity to hold all
litter generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES.  Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings, or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   HANDBILL.  Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed matter of
literature which is not delivered by United States mail, including but not
limited to those which:
      (1)   Advertise for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or thing;
      (2)   Direct attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Direct attention to or advertise any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit.
   LITTER.  Garbage, refuse, and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCK.  Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares,
commodities and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river or land.
   PRIVATE PREMISES.  All property including, but not limited to, vacant land
or any land, building or other structure designed or used for residential,
commercial, business, industrial, institutional or religious purposes, together
with any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox
and other structure appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses or fountains and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES.  Any receptacles provided by or authorized by the city.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(`91 Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85)
§ 94.02 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any litter within the city except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection, or in any duly
licensed disposal facility.
(`91 Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 PREVENTION OF SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such manner as to prevent litter from being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(`91 Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 UPSETTING OR TAMPERING WITH RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or authorized private
receptacle designed or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its
contents to be deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private
premises.
(`91 Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS TO BE KEPT FREE FROM LITTER.
   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any public place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter.
(`91 Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(`91 Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any loaded or partly loaded truck or
other vehicle within the city unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded
as to prevent any part of its load, contents or litter from being blown or
deposited upon any public place or private premises. Nor shall any person drive
or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the wheels or tires of which
carry onto or deposit in any public place or private premises, mud, dirt,
sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(`91 Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 LITTERING FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the city
any litter.
(`91 Code, § 94.08) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the city except in
receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any
other public place or private premises. Where receptacles are not provided, all
such litter shall be removed from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(`91 Code, § 94.09) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Public places. No person shall deposit or sell any handbill in or upon
any public place provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any public
place for any person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver,
any handbill to any person willing to accept it.
   (B)   Private premises.
      (1)   No person shall deposit or unlawfully distribute any handbill in or
upon private premises, except by handing or transmitting any such handbill
directly to the occupant of such private premises. Provided, however, that in
case of private premises which are not posted against the receiving of
handbills or similar material, such person, unless requested by anyone upon
such premises not to do so, may securely place any such handbill in such a
manner as to prevent such handbill from being deposited by the elements upon
any public place or other private premises, except mailboxes may not be so used
when prohibited by federal postal law or regulations.
      (2)   Exemption for newspapers and political literature. The provisions
of this section shall not apply to the distribution upon private premises only
of newspapers or political literature, except that newspapers and political
literature shall be placed in such a manner as to prevent their being carried
or deposited by the elements upon any public place or other private premises.
   (C)   Placing handbills on vehicles. No person shall deposit any handbill in
or upon any vehicle unless the occupant of a vehicle is willing to accept it.
   (D)   Cleanup. It shall be the responsibility of any person distributing
handbills to maintain the area which they are utilizing free of any litter
caused by or related to said handbill distribution.
(`91 Code, § 94.10) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public upon any public place, except
as may be authorized or required by law. No person except the owner or tenant
shall post any such notice on private property, without the permission of the
owner or tenant.
(`91 Code, § 94.11) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12 DUTY OF CONTRACTOR TO KEEP CONSTRUCTION SITES FREE FROM LITTER.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site so that litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
public place or other private premises. Each contractor shall, before
commencing construction, deposit with the City Clerk a bond or certified check
in an amount sufficient to assure compliance with this section.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction process upon any public place or private
premises, shall be removed by the contractor. Each contractor shall, before
commencing construction, deposit with the City Clerk, a bond or certified check
in an amount sufficient to assure compliance with this section.
(`91 Code, § 94.12) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS TO BE KEPT FREE FROM LITTER.
   The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain authorized private receptacles for collection of litter, and
shall at all times maintain the dock area free of litter in such a manner that
litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon
any public place or other private premises.
(`91 Code, § 94.13) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 LITTER RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PARKING LOTS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required. Any public place or private premises
containing any provision for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter
receptacles in compliance with this section. Such premises shall include but
not be limited to such places as shopping centers, outdoor theaters, drive-in
restaurants, gasoline service stations, apartment developments, parking lots,
and any other place where provision is made for vehicles to stop or park in a
designated area for any purpose.
   (B)   Number of receptacles. All premises having parking lots shall provide
in an easily accessible location, a minimum of one refuse container for every
50 parking spaces.
   (C)   Specifications. Litter receptacles shall have tight fitting lids or
tops and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures
as necessary to prevent spillage. A minimum container size of 20 gallons or
75.7 liters shall be used.
   (D)   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter-free condition and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (E)   Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use such litter receptacles as herein above
provided for the purposes intended and it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to deposit upon any such parking lot any litter.
(`91 Code, § 94.14) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15 MAYOR AUTHORIZED TO PREPARE GUIDELINES FOR COMPLIANCE.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to prepare written guidelines
on how to comply with this chapter. In doing so, applicable federal, state and
local standards regarding fire prevention, pollution control, public safety,
nuisance, and health shall be given due consideration.
(`91 Code, § 94.15) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85)
§ 94.16 REMOVAL OF LITTER FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY BY CITY; LIEN.
   The procedure for the removal of litter from private premises and the
charging of the expense thereof as a lien upon such property to be collected
shall be in accordance with the state statutes. The Mayor shall be responsible
for the implementation of this enforcement program.
(`91 Code, § 94.16) (Ord. 1000.1-1985, passed 11-11-85)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $500. Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
(`91 Code, § 94.99)
Cross-reference:
   Fine schedule for ordinances administered by Code Enforcement Board, see §
40.11
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Purpose and applicability
   
95.02   Construction
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Permits
Regulations
   
95.15   Structures, plants, trees, earth, rubbish
   
95.16   Vehicles
   
95.17   Firearms and weapons
   
95.18   Explosives and fireworks
   
95.19   Advertising, assemblages, entertainment
   
95.20   Merchandise sale prohibited
   
95.21   Ignitable and combustible materials
   
95.22   Alcoholic beverages, controlled dangerous substances, alms, gambling
   
95.23   Unlawful miscellaneous conduct
   
95.24   Picnic areas, swimming pools, boating
   
95.25   Closing hours
   
95.26   Regulated activities
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Litter in parks, see §
94.09
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide rules and regulations for
the use of and conduct in the parks and recreation areas of the city.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply in all parks and recreation areas under the
jurisdiction of the city, unless expressly exempted. For the issuance of
permits, temporary designations, authorizations, granting of approval and other
actions, the approving governing agency shall be the Council of Lyndon or its
designee.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93)
§ 95.02 CONSTRUCTION.
   In the interpretation of this and all succeeding park and recreation area
ordinances, the provisions shall be construed as follows:
   (A)   Any term in the singular shall include the plural.
   (B)   Any term in the masculine shall include the feminine and neuter.
   (C)   Any requirement or prohibition of any act shall respectively extend to
and include the causing and procuring, directly or indirectly, of such act.
   (D)   No provision hereof shall make unlawful any act necessarily performed
by any officer or employee of the Council or city in line of duty or work as
such, or by any person, by his agent or employees, in the proper and necessary
execution of the terms of any agreement with the Council or city.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS.  Includes cats, dogs, horses, any fowl or birds, and any living
creatures within the jurisdiction of the park or recreation area.
   APPROVING GOVERNING AGENCY.  The City Council or its designee.
   CROSSING.  Any crossing whether marked by a pavement or otherwise; the
extension to any sidewalk space across any intersecting drive, street, or
highway.
   CURB.  Any boundary of any street, road, avenue, boulevard, or drive,
whether or not marked by a curb.
   PARK ATTENDANT.  Any person employed by the Council as a park attendant to
perform duties or tasks within the park and recreation areas.
   PATH.  Any footpath, walk or any path maintained for pedestrians.
   PERMIT.  Any written license issued by or under the authority of the
approving governing agency permitting a special event or activity on park
facilities.
   PERSON.  Any natural person, corporation, company, association, joint stock
association, firm, or co-partnership.
   SOLICITING.  Persons selling goods or services by sample or taking orders
for future delivery with or without accepting advance payment for the goods.
Persons seeking any form of contributions.
   STOPPING OR STANDING.  When prohibited means any cessation of movement of a
vehicle, occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
pedestrians or other traffic, including horses and bicycles.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, and vehicles, either singly
or together.
   VEHICLE.  Any conveyance (except baby carriages), including motor vehicles,
trailers of all types, campers, tricycles, bicycles, motorized or not, sleds,
sleighs, pushcarts, or vehicles propelled by other than muscular power. Also
any horse or horsedrawn conveyance.
   VENDING.  Selling or trading any item or service.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93)
§ 95.04 PERMITS.
   Permits for special events in parks and recreation areas shall be obtained
by application to the Council or their designee in accordance with the
following procedure:
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a permit hereunder shall file an
application stating:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant.
      (2)   The name and address of the person, persons, corporation, or
association sponsoring the activity, if any.
      (3)   The day and hours for which the permit is desired.
      (4)   The park or portion thereof for which the permit desired.
      (5)   Any other information reasonably necessary to a determination as to
whether a permit should be issued hereunder.
      (6)   Variances required from park rules and regulations.
   (B)   Standards for issuance of a use permit shall include the following
findings:
      (1)   That the proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public’s enjoyment of the park.
      (2)   That the proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere
with or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety, and
recreation.
      (3)   That the proposed activity or uses that are reasonably anticipated
will not include violence, crime or disorderly conduct.
      (4)   That the proposed activity will not entail extraordinary or
burdensome expense or police operation by the city.
      (5)   That the facilities desired have not been reserved for other use on
the date and hour requested in the application.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93)
REGULATIONS
§ 95.15 STRUCTURES, PLANTS, TREES, EARTH, RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a public park or recreation area to:
   (A)   Mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or displace or remove
any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, pavings or
paving materials, water lines or other public utilities or parts or
appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or other
structures or equipment, facilities, or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, whether real or personal.
   (B)   Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a neat and
sanitary condition. No person over the age of six years shall use the restrooms
designated for the opposite sex.
   (C)   Dig or remove any soil, rock, sand, stones, trees, shrubs, or plants
or other wood or materials, or make any excavation by tool, equipment,
blasting, or other means or agency.
   (D)   Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever kind, whether
permanent or temporary, or run or string any public, service utility into,
upon, or across such lands, except on special written permit issued hereunder.
   (E)   Damage, cut, carve, mark, transplant or remove any plant, or injure
the bark, or pick flowers or seed of any tree or plant, dig in or otherwise
disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure the natural beauty or
usefulness of any area.
   (F)   Climb any tree or walk; climb, stand, or sit upon monuments, vases,
planters, fountains, railings, fences, or upon any other property not
designated or customarily used for such purpose.
   (G)   Attach any rope or cable or other contrivance to any tree, fence,
railing, bridge, bench, or other structure.
   (H)   Throw, discharge, or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any fountains, pond, lake, stream, or other body of water in or
adjacent to any park or any tributary, stream, storm, storm sewer, or drain
flowing into such water, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which
will or may result in the pollution of said waters.
   (I)   Take into, carry through, or put into any park any rubbish, refuse,
garbage, or other material. Such refuse and rubbish shall be deposited in
receptacles so provided. Where receptacles are not provided, all such rubbish
or waste shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere.
   (J)   Bring any glass container into any park or recreation area.
   (K)   Cause or permit to run loose any animal.
   (L)   Tie or hitch an animal to any tree or plant.
   (M)   Hunt, harm, frighten, kill, trap, pursue, chase, tease, shoot, or
throw missiles at any animal, wildlife, reptile, or bird; nor shall he remove
or have in his possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs, nest, or
young of any reptile or bird. Exception to the foregoing is made in that snakes
known to be deadly poisonous may be killed on sight.
   (N)   Walk a dog without a leash, said leash to be no longer than six feet.
   (O)   Ride a horse except on designated bridle trails; horses shall be
thoroughly broken, properly restrained, and ridden with due care and shall not
be allowed to graze or go unattended.
   (P)   Walk a domestic animal without a leash, said leash to be no longer
than six feet. Further, the owner or person having custody of said domestic
animal shall be responsible for removal of any animal solid waste.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.16 VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a public park or recreation area to:
   (A)   Drive any vehicle on any area except the paved park roads or parking
areas, or such areas as may on occasion be specifically designated as temporary
areas.
   (B)   Park a vehicle anywhere except on a designated parking area.
   (C)   Leave a vehicle standing or parked in established parking areas or
elsewhere in the park and recreation areas during hours when the park and
recreation area is closed. During a snow storm and for three days thereafter,
established parking areas in parks and recreation areas may be utilized for
parking, but not by trailers of any kind.
   (D)   Leave a bicycle in a place other than a bicycle rack when such is
provided and there is space available.
   (E)   Ride a bicycle without reasonable regard for the safety of others.
   (F)   Leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving or set against trees, or
in any place or position where other persons may trip over or be injured by
them.
   (G)   Wash any vehicle.
   (H)   Drive or operate within the parks any bus or vehicle adapted for more
than 12 passengers; any hearse, truck, tractor, or vehicle used for
advertising, provided that taxis, buses, and trucks may be used to carry
visitors to the parks and recreation areas.
   (I)   Use the parks, park drives, parking places, or parkways for the
purpose of demonstrating any vehicles, or for the purpose of instructing
another to drive or operate any vehicle, nor shall any person use any park
area, including parking places, for the repairing or cleaning of any vehicle,
except in an emergency.
   (J)   Cause or permit a vehicle in tow of another vehicle to enter the parks
or proceed therein, except that in case of a breakdown, a disabled vehicle may
be towed to the nearest exit; or operate or drive a vehicle containing any
person or object projecting or hanging outside of or beyond the side or the
rear thereof.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.17 FIREARMS AND WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into or have in his
possession in any park or recreation area:
      (1)   Any pistol or revolver or objects upon which loaded or blank
cartridges may be used. Official starters at authorized track and field events
are excepted from this restriction.
      (2)   Any rifle, shotgun, BB gun, air gun, spring gun, slingshot, bow, or
other weapon in which the propelling force is gunpowder, a spring, or air.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any concealed deadly weapon that is
being carried pursuant to a valid license issued under the authority of KRS
237.110.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.18 EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession or set off any
fireworks. Permits may be given for conducting properly supervised fireworks in
designated park areas.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.19 ADVERTISING, ASSEMBLAGES, ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No person shall post, paint, affix, distribute, deliver, place, cast,
or leave about any bill, billboard, placard, ticket, handbill, circular, or
advertisement.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following without a permit, provided
that no permit shall be required for any action or event sponsored by the city
or the Council:
      (1)   Display any advertising signs or other advertising matter, provided
that a sign attached to a vehicle to identify the vehicle, or a sign lawfully
on a taxi or bus, is not prohibited.
      (2)   Operate for advertising purposes any musical instrument,
soundtrack, or drum.
      (3)   Hold public assemblages.
      (4)   Conduct exhibitions.
      (5)   Hold a parade.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.20 MERCHANDISE SALE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall expose or offer for sale any article in any park or
recreation area without a license as a concessionaire.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 IGNITABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   No person shall kindle, build, maintain, or use a fire except in places
provided for such purposes. Any fire shall be continuously under the care and
direction of a competent person from the time it is kindled until it is
extinguished. No person shall throw away or discard any lighted match, cigar,
cigarette, tobacco, paper, or other material within or against any building,
boat, or vehicle or under any tree or in underbrush.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.22 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES, ALMS, GAMBLING.
   While in a public park or recreation area, all persons shall conduct
themselves in a proper and orderly manner, and in particular, no person shall:
   (A)   Bring alcoholic beverages or controlled dangerous substances, or drink
or use the same at any time, nor shall any person be under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or a controlled dangerous substance in a park or recreation
area.
   (B)   Solicit alms or contributions for any purpose, whether public or
private.
   (C)   Play any game of chance or have possession of any instrument or device
for gambling.
   (D)   Play, engage, or take part in any game or competitive sport for money,
or other valuable thing, without a written permit.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.23 UNLAWFUL MISCELLANEOUS CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a park or recreation area to:
   (A)   Camp or stay overnight anywhere except in areas designated for camping
or staying overnight in vehicles or trailers.
   (B)   Take part in the playing of any games involving thrown or otherwise
propelled objects except in those areas designated for such forms of
recreation.
   (C)   Play football, baseball, basketball, soccer, or lacrosse except in
areas designated for such games.
   (D)   Use skateboards.
   (E)   Roller skate or roller blade without reasonable regard for the safety
of others.
   (F)   Enter an area posted as “closed to the public.”
   (G)   Engage in threatening, abusive, insulting, or indecent language or
engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to breach the public
peace.
   (H)   Fail to produce and exhibit any permit he claims to have upon request
of any authorized person who shall desire to inspect the same for the purpose
of enforcing compliance with any ordinance or rule.
   (I)   Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person or party occupying
any area or participating in any activity under the authority of a permit.
   (J)   Erect or occupy any tent, stand, or other structure in any park or
playground, or sell or give away from any such tent, stand, or other structure
any food, drink, or other thing without a permit.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93; Am. Ord. 2-25-02A, passed 3-25-02) Penalty,
see §
95.99
§ 95.24 PICNIC AREAS, SWIMMING POOLS, BOATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to hold a
picnic in any park except in areas set aside or specifically designated as
picnic areas. A permit must be secured for any picnic with more than 20
participants.
   (B)   The ordinances relating to the use of public swimming pools shall
govern the use of any swimming pool in any park.
   (C)   Any person desiring to use any kind of a boat in parks shall abide by
the ordinances relating to boating in public places.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.25 CLOSING HOURS.
   Except for designated camping areas, no person shall be in any park during
the hours the park is closed.
   (A)   The park shall be closed from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   Closing hours will be posted at all entrances.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.26 REGULATED ACTIVITIES.
   The following activities are permitted only at times and in areas so
designated for that purpose and are prohibited elsewhere within the park:
   (A)   Swimming, bathing, wading, fishing.
   (B)   Ice skating, sledding, skiing.
   (C)   Model airplane flying.
   (D)   Boating on ponds -- without motors.
   (E)   Baseball.
   (F)   Police pistol range.
   (G)   Archery.
   (H)   Horseshoe pitching.
   (I)   Roller skating/roller blading.
   (J)   Tennis.
   (K)   Picnicking.
   (L)   Camping.
   (M)   Football and track.
   (N)   Basketball.
   (O)   Soccer.
   (P)   Bicycle riding.
   (Q)   Throwing or propelling any objects.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100 nor more
than $500 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 95.01-1993, passed 10-11-93)
CHAPTER 96: TREES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Tree Board
   
96.03   Public tree care
   
96.04   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
96.05   Forester license and insurance
   
96.06   Permits
   
96.07   Forester
   
96.08   Forestry funding
   
96.09   City Council review
   
96.10   Interference with City Tree Board
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
(Ord. 1-24-2000A, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 3-27-00B, passed 4-24-00)
§ 96.02 TREE BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board, which shall
consist of five members, citizens and residents of this city, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council.
   (B)   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be
three years, except that the term of two of the members appointed to the first
Board shall be for only one year, and the term of two members of the first
Board shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during
the term of any member, his successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of the term.
   (C)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel, develop and update annually, and administer a written plan for the
care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition of
trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas. Such plan
will be presented annually to the City Council and, upon their acceptance and
approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the city.
   (E)   The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
regulations, and keep a journal of its findings. A majority of the members
shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 1-24-2000A, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 3-27-00B, passed 4-24-00)
§ 96.03 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove trees,
plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes,
squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety or to
preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The City
Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious
to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public
improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pest.
This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent
property owners providing that the selection and location of said trees is in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1-24-2000A, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 3-27-00B, passed 4-24-00)
§ 96.04 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city. The City Tree Board will notify, in
writing, the owners of such trees. Removal shall be said owners at their own
expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. In the event of
failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the
authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner’s
property tax notice.
(Ord. 1-24-2000A, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 3-27-00B, passed 4-24-00)
§ 96.05 FORESTER LICENSE AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the
city without first applying for and procuring a city business license, however,
no license shall be required of any public service endeavors.
   (B)   Such business or firm shall first file evidence of public liability
insurance in which the city shall be named as an additional insured having
policy limits of no less than $1,000,000 for one or more persons personally
injured in one occurrence or accident, and $500,000 for property damage in any
occurrence or accident. This coverage shall include premises and/or operations,
independent contractors, products and/or completed operations, broad form
property damage, XCU coverage, and a contractual liability endorsement.
(Ord. 1-24-2000A, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 3-27-00B, passed 4-24-00) Penalty,
see §
96.99
§ 96.06 PERMITS.
   Permits may be required as per the City Tree Board’s Policy and Procedures.
(Ord. 1-24-2000A, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 3-27-00B, passed 4-24-00)
§ 96.07 FORESTER.
   The city will hire a forester on a contract basis, to help with the City
Tree Board’s decisions.
(Ord. 1-24-2000A, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 3-27-00B, passed 4-24-00)
§ 96.08 FORESTRY FUNDING.
   The City Council will establish a fund to support the forestry program.
(Ord. 1-24-2000A, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 3-27-00B, passed 4-24-00)
§ 96.09 CITY COUNCIL REVIEW.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and
decisions of the City Tree Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or
order of the City Tree Board to the City Council who may hear the matter and
make the final decision.
(Ord. 1-24-2000A, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 3-27-00B, passed 4-24-00)
§ 96.10 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
City Tree Board or any of its agents or servants while engaging in and about
the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any
street tree, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this
chapter.
(Ord. 1-24-2000A, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 3-27-00B, passed 4-24-00) Penalty,
see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction or
a plea of guilt, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not
to exceed $500.
(Ord. 1-24-2000A, passed 2-28-00; Am. Ord. 3-27-00B, passed 4-24-00)
CHAPTER 97: SMALL CELLULAR TOWER SITES
Section
   
97.01   Purpose and objectives
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Permit application and submittal requirements
   
97.04   Permitted facilities and locations
   
97.05   Standard requirements
   
97.06   Permit review, renewal and revocation procedures
   
97.07   Cessation of operations
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 91
§ 97.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish requirements and standards for
the development and siting of small cell wireless communications facilities and
ancillary support infrastructure on right-of-way owned by the city. These
regulations are intended to protect and promote public safety, community health
and welfare, and the aesthetic quality of the city, while providing for well-
managed development of small cell wireless telecommunications in accordance
with state and federal law.
(Ord. 2-24-20, passed 3-23-20)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, the terms used in this chapter shall
have the following meanings.
   APPLICANT. Service provider(s) of the small cell wireless facilities that
are proposed to be located within the city, or their authorized representative
(s).
   ANCILLARY EQUIPMENT. Any wires, cables, meter boxes, cable, conduit and
connectors, and any other equipment required to operate and support the
operation of small cell wireless facilities.
   CO-LOCATION or COLLOCATE.  Mounting or installing an antenna on a
preexisting structure and/or modifying a structure for the purpose of mounting
or installing an antenna facility on that structure.
   DECORATIVE FACILITY. A structure that is specially designed and placed for
aesthetic purposes to reasonably match its surrounding environment, and on
which no appurtenances or attachments, other than a small wireless facility,
lighting, specially designed informational or directional signage, or temporary
holiday or special event attachments, have been placed or are permitted to be
placed according to nondiscriminatory standards.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. All public streets and utility easements, now and hereafter
owned by the city.
   SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless telecommunications facility that
meets all the following conditions:
      (1)   The facilities:
         (a)   Are mounted on a structure 50 feet or less in height, including
the antennas; or
         (b)   Are mounted on a structure no more than 110% taller than other
adjacent structures; or
         (c)   Do not extend existing structures on which they are located to
the height of more than 50 feet or by more than 11%, whichever is greater; and
      (2)   The facility does not require antenna structure registration under
47 C.F.R. Ch. 1, subch. A, pt. 17.
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. That by virtue of engineering or spectrum usage the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design, concealment
measures, or site location can be implemented without a reduction in the
functionality of the small wireless facility.
(Ord. 2-24-20, passed 3-23-20)
§ 97.03 PERMIT APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance required. No applications for small cell wireless
facilities shall be deemed complete unless the applicant has submitted all
required application materials and applicable fees, as provided by this
section.
   (B)   Site plans and layouts. Applicants shall submit the following
information with the application electronically or by hardcopy. Hardcopy
submittals shall be provided in triplicate.
      (1)   Applicant. Applicant’s name, address, telephone number, e-mail
addresses;
      (2)   Representatives and consultants. The names, addresses, telephone
numbers and e-mail addresses of all duly authorized representatives and
consultants, if any, acting on behalf of the applicant with respect to the
filing of the application.
      (3)   Map and inventory of proposed sites.  Applicant shall provide a map
of the proposed site(s) and photographs of the structure if the installation is
a proposed co-location. Applicant’s map shall show all land uses within 800
feet of the proposed small cell wireless facility sites(s).
      (4)   Photo simulations of small cell facility and ancillary equipment.
Applicant shall show the placement of the proposed small cell wireless
facility, including the placement of any ancillary equipment.
      (5)   Drawings and plans. Applicant shall furnish site plan, plans, and
elevations, drawn to scale, that identify the proposed small cell wireless
facility and ancillary equipment placement. Elevations shall include all
structures on which facilities are proposed to be located. All proposed
structures, including ancillary equipment, shall be drawn to scale on the
elevations. Site plans shall include depiction of signage required by this
chapter. In addition, site plans showing the existing condition of the
structure and surrounding area shall be prepared and submitted.
      (6)   Camouflage and/or matching methods. Applicant shall provide both a
description of methods proposed to make the installation and all ancillary
equipment a decorative facility, and identify its colors and material
specifications.
      (7)   Identify all ancillary equipment. Plans shall identify any and all
ancillary equipment required to support the small cell wireless facility.
      (8)   Notice to nearby property owners. Unless the city waives the
requirement in advance for good cause shown, applicant shall provide notice to
any property owner within 150 feet of any installation of the application via
first class mail, and provide evidence of that notice to the city with its
application, along with any responses received to that notice. The city will
provide the applicant with any responses or contacts the city receives in
response to such notices.
   (C)   Fee requirements. An application for small cell wireless facilities
shall be accompanied by the following fee payments.
      (1)   Application fee. Application fee of $100 for each installation,
modification or replace-ment of a pole, or the collocation of an associated
small wireless facility, in the right-of-way.
      (2)   Annual rate. An applicant authorized to place small wireless
facilities and any related poles in the right-of-way will pay to the city
compensation for use of the right-of-way and collocation on city structures in
the right-of-way, an aggregate annual rate not to exceed $270 per small
wireless facility. This rate, together with the one-time application fee, shall
be the total compensation that the applicant is required to pay the city for
the deployment of each small wireless facility in the right-of-way and any
associated pole.
      (3)   Bonding.  Depending on the type, size and number of facilities, as
well as the financial viability of the applicant, the city may require a
reasonable and nondiscriminatory bond (or other good and sufficient security
from the applicant), with the application to ensure that the city right-of-way
is undamaged. Further, the city may require that a lesser bond (or other good
and sufficient security from the applicant) remains in place to ensure that the
facilities will be properly removed when no longer in use.
(Ord. 2-24-20, passed 3-23-20)
§ 97.04 PERMITTED FACILITIES AND LOCATIONS.
   Subject to compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter, small
cell wireless facilities, pursuant to an approved permit issued by the city in
compliance with this chapter, shall be permitted on the right-of-way of the
city, upon the following terms and conditions.
   (A)   Public right-of-way.  Small cell wireless facilities in the public
right-of-way in all zoning districts shall be in accordance with the following
preferences. The preferred approaches for design and siting of new small cell
wireless facilities in the public right-of-way are ranked as indicated in the
following lists. When a lower ranked alternative is proposed, the applicant
must include technical information demonstrating that a higher ranked option is
not feasible considering the provider’s service objectives. Any claim of
infeasibility shall be supported by substantial evidence.
      (1)   Collocation on existing light poles;
      (2)   Collocation on any other existing utility poles;
      (3)   Collocation on any other existing pole or on an existing structure
in the public right-of-way;
      (4)   Location on a new pole of any kind.
   (B)   Alternate location.
      (1)   The city may propose an alternative location for proposed
facilities from the proposed location. The city shall provide the applicant
with a written explanation of the reason the city believes the alternate
location is preferable.
      (2)   The applicant shall then:
         (a)   Accept the city’s recommen-dation;
         (b)   Identify another alternate location and provide a written
explanation why that alternate is preferable; or
         (c)    Provide written explanation why it continues to believe the
original location remains the best alternative.
      (3)   The facilities operator shall utilize the alternate location unless
the facilities operator shows that the alternate location is not feasible.
      (4)   Negotiation must occur within the timeframe set forth in §
97.06 to identity a mutually agreed location.
   (C)   Installation limitation. No more than one small cell installation for
any provider shall be permitted per each 1,000 feet along a city right-of-way;
unless the applicant provides technical information demonstrating that
application of this limitation is not feasible considering the applicant’s
service objectives. Any claim of infeasibility shall be supported by
substantial evidence.
   (D)   Noninterference with trees, landscaping and irrigation. Facilities
shall not interfere with existing or planned street trees, landscaping and
irrigation.
   (E)   Encroachment permit. An applicant seeking to install, construct,
operate, or perform work related to small cell wireless facilities in the
public right-of-way shall also obtain a revocable encroachment permit from the
city prior to commencing work.
(Ord. 2-24-20, passed 3-23-20)
§ 97.05 STANDARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   State or federal requirements. Small cell wireless facilities,
including ancillary equipment, must meet or exceed current standards and
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), all applicable
federal, state, and local health and safety regulations, including the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. §§ 2101 et seq.), and all
other agencies of the state or federal government with the regulatory authority
over small cell wireless facilities. Federal law prohibits the city from
denying a permit if doing so would prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting
the provision of personal wireless services. If, at any time, the state or
federal standards are modified, then the applicant shall bring any and all
permitted facilities into compliance with current standards and regulations
within three months of the effective date of such modified standards and
regulations, unless a different compliance schedule is mandated by the
controlling state or federal agency. Failure to bring permitted facilities into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations shall constitute grounds
for the revocation of the city permit and require removal of the small cell
facility at the service provider’s expense.
   (B)   Building codes and safety standards. The applicant shall ensure the
structural integrity of its small cell wireless facilities installed within the
city, and shall ensure that they are maintained in compliance with standards
contained in applicable state or local building codes, the Louisville Metro
Land Development Code, and the applicable standards for small cell wireless
facilities that are published by the Electronic Industries Association, as
amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the city determines that a
facility fails to comply with such codes and standards and constitutes a danger
to persons or property, then, upon notice being provided to the applicant of
the facility, the applicant shall have 15 days to bring such facility into
compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such facility into compliance
within the required time shall constitute grounds for the revocation of city
permit and removal of the small cell facility at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Radio frequency emissions standards.  Applicants shall confirm that
the projected radio frequency emissions from any and all permitted small cell
wireless facilities comply with applicable safety standard specified in 47
C.F.R. 1.1307(b). Such information shall be submitted with permit application
materials and annually thereafter if requested by the city.
   (D)   Operation and maintenance standards. In addition to any other
conditions required by permits issued pursuant to this chapter, all small cell
wireless facilities shall always comply with the following standards.
      (1)   Except as provided in this chapter, an applicant shall not install
signs, display logos, or run advertisements on, alongside, or in connection
with a permitted facility.
      (2)   Every permitted facility shall contain signage listing the name and
contact information for an emergency contact individual or service. The signage
shall comply with design, material, color and location requirements as stated
in the applicable encroachment permit. Contact information listed on the sign
shall be kept current and promptly be provided to the city.
      (3)   Each permitted facility and any ancillary equipment shall be
maintained in good working condition and appearance, free from trash, debris,
litter and graffiti and other forms of vandalism. Any damage from any cause
shall be repaired as soon as reasonably possible to minimize occurrences of
dangerous conditions or visual blight. Graffiti shall be removed from any
facility or equipment as soon as practicable, and in no instance more than 48
hours from the time of receipt of city notice.
      (4)   Except for emergency repairs, testing and maintenance activities
shall only occur between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday, excluding holidays.
      (5)   Each facility shall install the following security measures:
         (a)   An on-site, emergency “kill switch” to de-energize all radio
frequency circuits and components of each permitted facility in order to
protect emergency response personnel;
         (b)   Necessary safety measures to prevent unauthorized access,
vandalism, and other safety concerns. Installations must comply with design
standards, described herein, and nuisance regulations, and must not interfere
with city emergency services or transmission.
      (6)   Except for public improvement projects undertaken primarily for
beautification, each facility shall be relocated at the applicant’s sole cost,
upon demand by the city with reasonable notice, to allow for public improvement
projects necessary for the public’s health and safety.
      (7)   The applicant shall, at its sole cost, be responsible for repairing
to city standard specifications, or replacing in kind, any city facilities or
improvements disturbed or damaged during the installation, maintenance,
operation, repair or removal of the applicant’s small cell wireless facilities,
ancillary equipment, and any support infrastructure. City facilities or
improvements covered by this division include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Curb, gutter, sidewalk, storm drains, and pavement;
         (b)   Landscaping; and
         (c)   Structures, buildings, light poles and fixtures.
   (E)   Electrical metering and structural standards.  All small cell wireless
facilities shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   All electrical power required by small cell wireless facility
installations shall be metered independently from any anticipated or existing
city projects or facilities.
      (2)   All existing, city-owned street light poles proposed for small cell
wireless facility installations shall be inspected prior to installation, in
accordance with the most recent city structural standards for street light
poles, including but not limited to, safety and load-bearing capability for the
small cell wireless facility to be installed, as approved by the City Engineer.
         (a)   Applicants requesting to install a small cell wireless facility
on city-owned streetlight poles shall provide documentation demonstrating that
the pole proposed for installation meets or exceeds such city standards.
         (b)   If the city-owned streetlight pole proposed for a small cell
wireless facility installation does not meet or exceed structural standards, no
small cell wireless facility may be installed thereon. Alternatively, the
applicant may at its own cost replace the existing streetlight pole at the
proposed installation location with a pole that meets or exceeds the city’s
structural standards, including safety and load-bearing capability or capacity,
and complies with all other applicable legal requirements. Any existing
lighting fixture shall be reinstalled on the new pole at the applicant’s cost.
The applicant shall be responsible to coordinate electrification of the new
installation with the utility provider, including independent metering of
electrical power required for applicant’s installations as provided herein.
Upon installation, the new pole shall become the property of the city.
   (F)   A decorative facility. Small cell wireless facilities and any
ancillary equipment shall be located and designed to be a decorative facility
and blend with the existing natural or built surroundings, provided, however,
the obligation to install decorative facilities in the right-of-way shall be
applied uniformly and in a nondiscriminatory manner, and shall be no more
burdensome than the requirements applied to similar types of infrastructure
deployments for other, similarly-situated utility installations. The applicant
cannot remove or damage any city landscaping, and may be required by the city
to install buffering landscaping.
   (G)   Ancillary equipment. 
      (1)   Ancillary equipment and any support facilities for small cell
wireless facilities located in the public right-of-way shall be installed in
accordance with the following preferences, ordered from most preferred to least
preferred:
         (a)   Underground in any area in which the existing utilities are
primarily located underground;
         (b)   On the pole or support structure; or
         (c)   Integrated into the base of the pole or support structure.
      (2)   Applications that involve less-preferred installation locations may
be approved so long as the applicant demonstrates that the more preferred
installation location would be technically infeasible. Any claim of
infeasibility shall be supported by substantial evidence.
      (3)   If undergrounding of ancillary equip-ment is not possible, all such
equipment shall be located within a decorative facility, and shall comply with
all applicable laws, including but not limited to, the American Disabilities
Act.
   (H)   Pole designs.  Small cell wireless facility pole installations shall
be a decorative facility. Each installation shall be sufficiently designed and
engineered such that no additional supporting hardware is required beyond the
pole itself. A small cell wireless facility that is affixed to an existing
light pole shall be painted and/or textured to match that structure.
   (I)   Non-reflective materials.  Small cell wire-less facilities shall be
constructed out of non-reflective materials (visible exterior surfaces only),
or materials and colors consistent with surrounding backdrop. Anodized metal is
an acceptable treatment.
   (J)   Design preservation. Applicants are responsible for maintaining and
preserving design and aesthetic features for each facility, ancillary equipment
and any support infrastructure, including but not limited to, color, tint,
shade, treatment, painting, surface treatment, replacement landscaping,
decorative facility design, and concealment.
   (K)   Security fencing. Under no circumstances shall security fencing be
permitted.
   (L)   Volume. Each individual antenna may not exceed three cubic feet in
volume. All other equipment associated with a small wireless facility shall be
no more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The volume calculation shall include any
shroud, cabinet or other concealment device used in connection with the non-
antenna accessory equipment. The volume calculation shall not include any
equipment or other improvements placed underground.
(Ord. 2-24-20, passed 3-23-20)
§ 97.06 PERMIT REVIEW, RENEWAL AND REVOCATION PROCEDURES.
   The city shall review an application subject to this chapter considering its
conformity with appli-cable provisions of this chapter, and shall issue a
permit on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions, subject to the following
requirements:
   (A)   For an initial application, the city shall notify the applicant in
writing on or before the tenth day of submission if the application is
materially incomplete. In the written notice that the application is
incomplete, the city must clearly and specifically identify all the missing
documents or information, and must specify the related code provision,
ordinance, application instruction or otherwise publicly stated procedures
related to missing information; and
   (B)   If the city notifies the applicant in writing that the application is
incomplete in accordance with division (A), the processing deadline in division
(C) shall restart at zero on the date the applicant submits all the documents
and information identified by the Director to render the application complete;
and
   (C)   (1)   The city shall make its final decision to approve or deny a
complete application within:
         (a)   Sixty days of receiving an application for the collocation of a
small wireless facility using an existing structure; and
         (b)   Ninety days for an application to locate a small wireless
facility on a new structure.
      (2)   These timelines may be tolled only by mutual agreement between the
applicant and the city; and
   (D)   The city must advise the applicant in writing of its final decision.
If the final decision is to deny the application:
      (1)   The final decision document shall state the basis for a denial,
including specific code provisions on which the denial was based; and
      (2)   The city must send the decision document to the applicant on or
before the day the city denies the application.
   (E)   The city must process all applications on a nondiscriminatory basis.
The city may only deny an application subject to this chapter if the proposed
small wireless facility or new, modified, or replaced pole:
      (1)   Materially and demonstrably interferes with the safe operation of
traffic control equipment;
      (2)   Materially and demonstrably interferes with sight lines or clear
zones for transportation or pedestrians;
      (3)   Materially fails to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
or similar federal or state standards regarding pedestrian access or movement;
      (4)   The applicant refuses to comply with the city's preferred locations
in §
97.04(A) herein;
      (5)   Fails to comply with applicable codes; or
      (6)   Fails to comply with the provisions in this chapter.
(Ord. 2-24-20, passed 3-23-20)
§ 97.07 CESSATION OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Voluntary cessation. Applicants intending to vacate a small cell
wireless facility site shall notify the city of their intent to vacate at least
30 days prior to the vacation.
   (B)   Abandonment.  
      (1)   A permit for a small cell wireless facility that is not operated
for a continuous period of six months shall be deemed lapsed and the site will
be considered abandoned unless:
         (a)   The city has received notice from the same operator of intent to
resume operations within six months; or
         (b)   The city has received an application to transfer the permit to
another service provider.
      (2)   Removal of facilities and restoration of site. No later than 90
days from the date a small cell wireless facility has ceased operation, or from
the date of receipt of the applicant’s notice of its intent to vacate the site,
the applicant or its authorized agent of the abandoned small cell wireless
facility shall remove all equipment and improvements associated with the use,
and shall restore the site to its original condition as shown on the plans
submitted with the original approved application. The owner or agent shall
provide written verification of the removal of the small cell wireless facility
within 30 days of the date the removal is completed.
   (C)   Failure to remove and restore.  
      (1)   For a small cell wireless facility that is not removed and whose
site has not been restored in accordance with the requirements stated above,
the site shall be deemed to be a nuisance pursuant to city ordinance. The city
may cause the facility to be removed at the owner’s expense or by calling any
bond or other financial assurance to pay for removal.
      (2)   For a single structure occupied by two or more users, this division
shall not apply while at least one user continues to actively use the
structure.
   (D)   Destruction of pole or city discontinuation of use.  If a city-owned
structure upon which a small cell wireless facility is located is damaged,
destroyed, or demolished by acts beyond city’s control, the right for such
small cell wireless facility to continue occupying the structure shall cease.
The applicant may opt to construct a pole or structure to replace the damaged,
destroyed or demolished city structure in compliance with the requirements of
this chapter, including structural inspection and separate metering
requirements.
(Ord. 2-24-20, passed 3-23-20)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Upon the failure of any entity to properly repair and restore any cut,
excavation, or alternation to the city right-of-way, or failure to maintain any
facility placed in the right-of-way, the city may authorize the repair or
restoration of the area in a proper manner and charge the cost to the entity
who violated this chapter (and/or the entity upon whose behalf the work was
done). In the event the city must make the repair or restoration, in addition
to its other remedies, the city shall have a lien under the authority of KRS
65.8840 for the abatement of nuisance conditions against any property of the
entities (if any) that the work directly benefits, or on whose behalf it was
undertaken. The lien shall be recorded in the County Clerk’s office and shall
bear interest at 12% per annum thereafter until paid.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies set out above, the city shall cite any
person, utility, company or entity for each violation of this chapter in an
amount not more than $500 per violation. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Further, if deemed necessary by the city to
protect the public ways and public utilities of the city, any entity repeatedly
violating this chapter may be denied permission to make any future cuts or
excavations until it fully remedies past violations and pays any outstanding
fines.
(Ord. 2-24-20, passed 3-23-20)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
114.   SALES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
Occupational License Fee
   
110.20   Short title of subchapter
   
110.21   Definitions
   
110.22   Applicability
   
110.23   Business or occupation required to pay amount of tax
   
110.24   Occupational license fees imposed
   
110.25   Apportionment of occupational license fees
   
110.26   Specific receipts excluded from occupational license fee
   
110.27   Employer located outside city
   
110.28   Collector designated
   
110.29   Occupational license fee reporting; withholding
   
110.30   Collection of license fees; records
   
110.31   Purpose; fees to be deposited in General Fund
   
110.32   Information deemed confidential; penalty for disclosure
   
110.33   Collector’s duties
   
110.34   Procedure for applying for refund of overpayment
   
110.35   Failure to file return; failure to pay; underpayments
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Taxes to be paid in full prior to issuance of licenses or permits, see §
35.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the City Clerk or other duly authorized issuing authority. The annual fee of
$100 shall be due and payable on or before July 15 of each year. License fees
shall be credited to the general funds of the city.
(`91 Code, § 110.01) (Am. Ord. 4-28-08C, passed 5-19-08; Am. Ord. 3-28-22B,
Series 2022, passed 4-25-22)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the City Council in writing upon forms to be
furnished by Council and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner, or business
associate;
      (2)   His present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His place of residence for five years next preceding the date of
application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor;
      (7)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his business as
may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful knowingly to make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
(`91 Code, § 110.02) (Am. Ord. 10-20-97-1997-98, passed 11-17-97) Penalty, see
§
110.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application for a license, if approval by another
officer or department is not required, the City Council shall forthwith issue
to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the appropriate city
official.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
(`91 Code, § 110.03) (Am. Ord. 10-20-97-1997-98, passed 11-17-97)
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
(`91 Code, § 110.04) (Am. Ord. 10-20-97-1997-98, passed 11-17-97)
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
(`91 Code, § 110.05) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises, the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
(`91 Code, § 110.06) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked by the legislative body at any time for
conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time of issuance,
would have been valid grounds for its denial; for any misrepresentation of a
material fact in the application discovered after issuance of the license; for
violation of any provision of this chapter or other law or ordinance relating
to the operation of the business or enterprise for which the license has been
issued; or upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state, or municipal
law or ordinance involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The revocation shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee or posted upon the premises affected.
   (C)   As a preliminary to revocation, the legislative body may issue an
order suspending the license, which shall become effective immediately upon
service of written notice to the licensee. This notice shall specify the reason
for suspension, and may provide conditions under which reinstatement of the
license may be obtained. Upon compliance with these conditions within the time
specified, the license may be restored.
(`91 Code, § 110.07)
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   In case any applicant has been denied a license, or if his license has been
revoked or suspended, the applicant or licensee as the case may be, shall
within three business days have the right to appeal to the legislative body
from the denial, revocation, or suspension. Notice of appeal shall be filed in
writing with the City Clerk who shall fix the time and place for a hearing
which shall be held not later than one week thereafter. The City Clerk shall
notify the Mayor and all members of the legislative body of the time and place
of the hearing not less than 24 hours in advance thereof. A majority of the
legislative body members shall constitute a quorum to hear the appeal. The
appellant may appear and be heard in person or by counsel. If, after hearing, a
majority of the members of the legislative body present at the meeting declare
in favor of the applicant, the license shall be issued or fully reinstated as
the case may be; otherwise the order appealed from shall become final.
(`91 Code, § 110.08)
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing and/or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
(`91 Code, § 110.09)
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
§ 110.20 TITLE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter may be referred to as the Lyndon Occupational License Fee
Ordinance.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, or any other
form of unincorporated enterprise, owned or engaged in by two or more persons.
   CITY. The City of Lyndon, Kentucky.
   COLLECTOR. The person designated by the city as the license fee collector
and administrator under this subchapter.
   COMMISSION MERCHANT or COMMISSION EMPLOYEE. Any person who engages in the
sale of goods for compensation in the form of a commission only. Also, any
person who buys and resells goods, if the person does not maintain a retail
store or wholesale sales floor and does not store goods except during short
periods before transportation to the buyer.
   COMPENSATION. The compensation paid by any employer, regardless of whether
the employer is a for-profit or a non-profit entity, to any employee, including
wages, salaries, commissions, bonuses, and all other kinds of employee
compensation whatsoever. COMPENSATION also includes commission received by a
commission merchant or commission employee. COMPENSATION as herein defined does
not include fringe benefits paid for by an employer.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Kentucky, or any other state,
territory, foreign country, or dependency.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person engaging in or following any trade, occupation,
profession, or activity as defined herein and receiving compensation consisting
of either wages, salary, commission, or other forms of compensation. The
substance and not  the form shall govern, and no employee working under the
supervision of another person shall be considered to be an independent
contractor merely because a contract has been signed making it appear that the
employee is an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. Any individual, person, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body or unit or administration or agency, or any other activity or
any other entity, who or that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission, or other compensation basis. EMPLOYER shall also mean the person or
entity liable for the withholding of occupational license fees from the
compensation of an employee.
   FIRM. Any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, joint venture,
limited partnership, or other form of organization formed for the purpose of
doing business.
   INDIVIDUAL. A natural person.
   LICENSEE. Any person required to pay a license fee under this subchapter.
   OCCUPATION, TRADE, PROFESSION, OR OTHER ACTIVITY. The doing of any kind of
work, the rendering of any kind of personal service, or the holding of any kind
of position or job within the city, by any clerk, laborer, tradesman, manager,
official, or other employee, where the relationship between the individual
performing the services and the person for whom such services are rendered, is,
as to those services, the legal relationship of employer and employee,
including also a partner of the firm or officer who receives a salary for his
or her personal services rendered in the business of the firm or corporation;
and shall also include an officer or employee employed either by election or
appointment, by the federal, state, county, or city, where the services of the
official or employee are rendered within the city.
   PERSON. Any natural person, co-partnership, fiduciary, association, or
corporation. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty in
the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership or
other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners or members
thereof; and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and directors
thereof.
   RESIDENT. Any natural person, co-partnership, fiduciary, association,
corporation, or other entity domiciled or having a business situs in the city.
   SALARIES, WAGES, COMMISSIONS, AND OTHER COMPENSATIONS or WAGES. The total
gross amount of all salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, shares of net
partnership receipts or withdrawals, and corporate dividends paid in lieu of
salaries or wages, which are required to be reported for federal income tax
purposes, and any and all other payments or other considerations which a person
receives from, or is entitled to, for any work done or personal services
rendered within the city in any trade, occupation, or profession, or any other
activity, including all deductions whether for tax, insurance, or other, but
excluding fringe benefits paid for by an employer. Amounts paid to traveling
salespeople or other workers as allowance or reimbursement for travel or other
expenses incurred in the business of the employer, except to the extent of the
excess of such amounts over such expenses actually incurred and accounted for
by the employee to his or her employer, are excluded.
   SALES WITHIN THE CITY. Sales of merchandise delivered to a customer within
the city, or services performed within the city for a customer.
   TREASURER. The Treasurer of the City of Lyndon, Kentucky.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.22 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The occupational license fee shall apply only to employees of persons,
firms, corporations, and associations doing business within the boundaries of
the city.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation, or association is doing business within
the boundaries of the city if the entity does any of the following:
      (1)   Employs one or more employees, commission merchants, or commission
employees to work in the city.
      (2)   Maintains a place of business within the city.
      (3)   Owns, manages, or leases property in the city. Managing rental
properly owned by the entity or by others is included.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.23 BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION REQUIRED TO PAY AMOUNT OF TAX.
   Beginning on the first day of January, 2024, each person, firm,
organization, or corporation owning, operating, conducting, or engaging in any
business, occupation, trade, or profession, as defined in §
110.22, whether operated or conducted separately or in connection with another
business, occupation, trade, or profession shall pay the required license fee.
The person designated by the city as the License Fee Collector and
Administrator is charged with the enforcement of these provisions and shall
have all the powers, duties and authority set out in this chapter.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23; Am. Ord. 3-25-24A, passed 4-22-24)
§ 110.24 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES IMPOSED.
   There is a levied and imposed annual occupational license fee upon all
persons engaged in any occupation, trade, profession, or business in the city
for the privilege of engaging in the occupation, trade, profession, or
business. The occupational license fee shall be measured by and be equal to
0.75% of the gross annual salaries, wages, or compensations earned by any such
persons for work done or services performed or rendered within the city in the
12 months preceding the return to be filed as required in this chapter.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23; Am. Ord. 10-28-24, passed 11-25-24)
§ 110.25 APPORTIONMENT OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES.
   Where salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensations are earned for
work performed or services rendered both within and without the city,
occupational license fees shall be measured by such part of the salaries,
wages, commissions, and other compensations as is earned as a result of work
performed or services rendered in the city. Such occupational license fees
shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the compensation for work
performed or services rendered within the city bears to the total compensation
earned, in accordance with KRS 67.753.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.26 SPECIFIC RECEIPTS EXCLUDED FROM OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.
   The following money receipts are not deemed to be salaries, wages,
commissions, and other compensations and net profits, within the meaning of
this subchapter.
   (A)   Old age or retirement payments. Periodic payments commonly recognized
as old age or retirement pensions, made to persons retired from service after
reaching a specific age or a stated period of employment, are not subject to
the license fee.
   (B)   Disability, sickness, and accident benefits, unemployment
compensation, and other insurance payment received from personal injuries or
property losses. Payments to employees by an employer under a disability,
sickness, and accident benefit plan are not subject to the license fee.
Unemployment compensation payments by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or any
other agent, are not subject to the occupational license fee. Payments received
for personal injuries and property losses are not subject to the occupational
license fee.
   (C)   Death benefits. Death benefits payable to the beneficiary of an
employee or to their estate, whether payable in a single sum or otherwise, are
not subject to the occupational license fee.
   (D)   Worker's compensation benefits. Benefits arising under the Worker's
Compensation Act as compensation for disabilities sustained during the course
of employment, together with any amount of damages received by suit or
agreement, on account of such disability are not subject to the occupational
license fee.
   (E)   Any income exempt from occupational taxation by state or federal law.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.27 EMPLOYER LOCATED OUTSIDE CITY.
   Employers located outside of the city are subject to withholding of
occupational license fees on the salaries, wages, commissions, and other
compensation of employees where the employer is doing business in the city, as
defined in §
110.22.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.28 COLLECTOR DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The Collector is charged with the enforcement of these provisions, and
is empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate, and enforce rules and regulations
relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of
these provisions, including but not limited to provisions for the reexamination
and correction of returns to which an underpayment or overpayment is claimed or
found to have been made. The rules and regulations as promulgated by the
Collector shall be binding upon the licensee and employers. However, all such
rules, regulations, and decisions shall be subject to the consent and approval
of the City Council.
   (B)   The Collector, or any agent or employee designated by the Collector in
writing, may examine the books, papers, and records of any employee or supposed
employee of any licensee or supposed licensee in order to determine the
accuracy of any return made, or, if no return was made, to ascertain and assess
the amount of occupational license fee imposed by the terms of this subchapter,
as the Collector may deem this reasonably necessary for purposes incident to
the performance of the Collector's duties hereunder. The Collector may enforce
this right by application to the appropriate court having jurisdiction over
these matters.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.29 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE REPORTING; WITHHOLDING.
   (A)   Each employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
obtain from the city an occupational license fee reporting number.
   (B)   Each employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
deduct monthly, or more often than monthly, at the time of payment thereof, the
occupational license fee due from each employee measured by the amount of
salaries, wages, commissions, or compensation due by the employer to the
employee subject to the occupational license fee and shall pay to the treasurer
the amount of occupational license fee so deducted. The payment required to be
made on account of deductions by employers shall be made quarterly to the City
Treasurer for the quarterly periods ending on the last day of March, June,
September, and December of each year, on or before the last day of the month
following the quarter of the deduction and employers shall file with the city
an employer's quarterly return of license fee withheld. However, the collector
may, by regulation, require employers to make returns and to remit the
occupational license fees withheld more frequently.
   (C)   Each employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
annually file by the last day in February each year an annual report of
employee's payroll withholding form to the Collector, in which return is set
forth the name and residence of each employee of the employer, employed during
the preceding calendar year, and his or her social security number (or other
federal identification number), setting forth the total amount of salaries,
wages, commissions, or other compensations earned during the preceding calendar
year by each employee and the amount thereof earned within the city and subject
to the occupational license fee imposed by this subchapter. It shall be the
duty of each employer who has deducted the occupational license fee from the
wages, salaries, commission, or other compensation referred to above, to
furnish the employee a statement showing the amount of salary earned and
occupational license fee deducted and paid by the employer during the preceding
calendar year, on or before the last day of January of each year. However, the
failure or omission of any employer to deduct the occupational license fee
shall not relieve the employee from the payment of the occupational license fee
and compliance with such regulations with respect to making returns and
payments thereof, as may be fixed in this subchapter or established by the
Collector.
   (D)   An employer who deducts and withholds the city occupational license
fee from one or more persons under employ and who fails to file a return and
make payment therewith shall in addition to the penalties prescribed herein
upon conviction be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500,
or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both fine and imprisonment, for
each offense. Such criminal penalties shall be in addition to the penalties
imposed above.
   (E)   The Collector shall have the authority to extend the time of filing
the occupational license fee return. Extension shall be upon the written
request of the licensee and shall be received by the Collector prior to the due
date of the occupational license fee return. The written request shall be
accompanied by a copy of the appropriate state or federal applications for
extension. Regardless of the number of extensions approved, all occupational
license fees remaining unpaid after they become due shall bear interest at the
rate of 1.5% per month (or part thereof) until paid.
All occupational license fees remaining unpaid for 30 days after the original
due date, or approved extension date, whichever shall be later, shall be
subject to a 10% penalty of the amount of such unpaid occupational license
fees, or $10, whichever shall be greater.
   (F)   Each person filing a return shall provide a copy of Form Schedule C,
1040 (Profit or Loss from Business or Profession); Form Schedule E, 1040
(Supplemental Income from Rents, etc.); Form 765 or 1065 (Partnerships); Form
741 or 1041 (Fiduciary/Estate-Trusts); Form 720 or 1120 (Corporations), as
applicable.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.30 COLLECTION OF LICENSE FEES; RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Collector to collect and the Treasurer to
receive the occupational license fees imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall give a receipt to the Collector for such fees and
shall keep records showing the amount paid by each licensee and employer and
the date of such receipt.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.31 PURPOSE; FEES TO BE DEPOSITED IN GENERAL FUND.
   (A)   All moneys derived from occupational license fees under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be paid to the City Treasurer and placed to the credit
of the General Revenue Fund of the city. The revenue therefrom shall be used
and expended in defraying current, general, and incidental expenses of the city
and for capital improvements.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide revenue for the
General Fund of the city and it is not the intention of the city or of this
subchapter to impose and require any occupational license fee prohibited by
law. Pursuant to KRS 92.330, the city has enacted this business license and
occupational fee chapter for the purpose of funding government services that
are essential to the successful operation of commercial enterprise in the city;
including, but not limited to, police protection, sanitation, public works, and
the maintenance and capital improvement of the public infrastructure, which is
used daily by the business community and its patrons.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.32 INFORMATION DEEMED CONFIDENTIAL; PENALTY FOR DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Any information, including returns, documents, or payments made
pursuant hereto, and any other information gained by the Treasurer, Collector,
or any other official, agent, or employee of the city as a result of any
return, investigation, hearing, or verification required or authorized by this
subchapter shall be confidential except in accordance with proper judicial
order. Any person or agent divulging such information shall, upon conviction,
be subjected to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200, or imprisonment
not to exceed 60 days, or both, at the discretion of the court, and, upon
conviction, shall be dismissed from employment by the city.
   (B)   However, such person may disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue of
the state, or their duly authorized agent, or to the Commissioner of the
Internal Revenue Service, or their duly authorized agent, all such information,
and extend the right to inspect any of the books and records of the city to the
Commissioner of Revenue of the state and to the Commissioner of the Internal
Revenue Service, who must grant to the city the reciprocal right to obtain
information from the files and records of the Department of Revenue of the
state and from the files and records of the Internal Revenue Service; and
maintains the privilege character of the information so furnished to them.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.33 COLLECTOR'S DUTIES.
   The Collector shall have the following duties in connection with the
occupational license tax:
   (A)   Keep accurate records of all returns and of all sums received for
occupational license taxes. Such records shall contain the names and addresses
of each taxpayer, and the dates and amounts of payments. The nature of
installment payments shall be indicated in the records. The collector shall
keep the original returns on file for a period of not less than three years
after filing;
   (B)   Enforce the provisions of this subchapter, all in accordance with any
policies set forth in any ordinance, municipal order, or executive order;
   (C)   Prepare forms and instructions for the returns and payments required
by this subchapter. All instructions shall be clear and shall be as short as
possible;
   (D)   Examine returns and, for any returns appearing to be incorrect, make
inquiries, investigations, and adjustments in the amount of tax due;
   (E)   Where necessary to determine accurate figures for determining the
amount of tax due, examine books, records, and information stored in computers
of any taxpayer, provided that each city officer or employee acting under this
provision shall identify themselves and request the information desired. If the
officer or employee is refused admission to any place of business or refused
access to any records or computer memory, the Collector or employee shall leave
the premises and shall seek an appropriate court order, with the assistance of
the City Attorney, to obtain access to the information needed;
   (F)   The Collector may delegate duties assigned to the Collector in this
subchapter to any officer or employee under the Collector's supervision,
provided that the Collector shall approve the form of all returns and written
instructions;
   (G)   The Collector shall prepare pamphlets for distribution to the public,
clearly explaining the occupational license tax and the returns and payments
required; and
   (H)   The Collector shall perform all of the other duties assigned to the
Collector by this subchapter.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.34 PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING FOR REFUND OF OVERPAYMENT.
   (A)   Any person, employer, employee, or licensee who truly believes that
they have made or permitted an overpayment of their liability for any
occupational license fee required by this subchapter may apply for refund of
the overpayment provided that they file an amended return, verified under oath
and setting forth in detail the full explanation of the reason of the claimed
overpayment of their liability, within one year of the date the overpayment is
made or the date the occupational license fee payment was due, whichever occurs
first.
   (B)   If a refund has been properly claimed according to the provisions of
division (A) above, then the Collector shall have the authority to honor and
refund any overpayment actually made above actual liability upon the
occupational license fee required under this subchapter which the Collector
determines within the Collector's sole discretion was made through honest
mistake or inadvertence.
   (C)   In no event shall any refund be made for any payment upon any
occupational license fee unless the refund claim is submitted and filed in
strict compliance with the foregoing provisions of this section upon such
refund claim forms or amended return forms as hereafter be promulgated by the
Collector from time to time.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.35 FAILURE TO FILE RETURN; FAILURE TO PAY; UNDERPAYMENTS.
   The following rules shall apply when an employer fails to file a return,
fails to pay the occupational license fees withheld when due, or pays less than
the amount due.
   (A)   If the person (employer) liable for withholding the occupational
license fees and filing a return fails to make a return, the Collector shall
prepare an estimate of the amount of occupational license fees due based on the
best information available to the Collector. The Collector may make
investigations to assist in making the estimate. The Collector may consider the
number of employees, the wages or other compensation customarily paid in the
type of business, the volume of business done, customary commissions or bonuses
paid to employees in the same type of business, and any other relevant matters.
The Collector may estimate the compensation customary in the business or
similar businesses. When the Collector estimates the occupational license fees,
the amount of interest and late charges provided by this subchapter shall be
added to the fees due. In addition to all the provisions set out in this
chapter, the Collector shall also have the discretion to use all the powers for
collection, enforcement and all the penalties for failure to file or pay under
KRS 67.750-795.
      (1)   The Collector shall notify the person (employer) of the amount due.
Notification shall be in writing and shall contain a brief description of the
method and estimated figures used in arriving at the estimated tax.
      (2)   Any person (employer) may dispute the amount of the estimated tax
by filing within 30 days of notification of the estimated fees, a return
accompanied by payment of the entire balance due together with the interest and
late charges due. This return shall be processed like any late return by the
Collector and shall establish the occupational license fees liability of the
person (employer) in place of the estimated amount prepared by the Collector.
The Collector may, however, later determine that the amount shown in the return
is insufficient so there is a deficiency, in the same manner as in the case of
other returns.
   (B)   If the Collector determines, by examining available evidence, that the
amount of occupational license fees paid over by the employer is less than the
amount required by this subchapter, the Collector shall notify the employer of
the deficiency.
      (1)   The Collector may use any of the methods authorized in division (A)
of this section to determine whether a deficiency exists and to determine the
amount of deficiency.
      (2)   The Collector shall thereupon notify the employer of the
deficiency. Notice shall be in writing and shall state not only the amount of
the deficiency but also the methods and estimates used in arriving at the
amount of the deficiency.
      (3)   If the employer does not object within 30 days of the date of
receiving notice, the employer shall be deemed to have accepted the revised
figures for the occupational tax liability. If the employer does file written
objection within the time specified, the employer shall pay the fees, together
with penalties and interest, under protest and may thereupon pursue
administrative and judicial remedies as provided by ordinance and by state law
to seek a refund.
   (C)   If the Collector finds that any employer has overpaid, the Collector
shall notify the employer of the overpayment and shall refund the amount of the
overpayment to the employer.
   (D)   When the Collector notifies any employer of any estimated amount due,
alleged overpayment, or refund, the Collector shall include in the notice clear
instructions on how, when, and where the employer may protest or appeal the
decision.
   (E)   If an employer or any person, firm, association, or corporation
required by this subchapter to pay a fee or to file a return shall fail to file
any return for any year, failure to file shall constitute a continuing offense
against the city and the Collector may proceed to estimate and collect the
occupational license fees at any time. In all other cases, no increases shall
be made in the employer's occupational license fee liability unless notice of
such increase is received by the employer within three years of the time the
annual return was first due.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
the following penalties:
   (A)   All business license fees which remain unpaid after they become due
shall bear interest at the rate of 1.5% per month (or part thereof). Any person
who fails to pay the business license fees when it shall become due, shall also
be charged a penalty of 10% of the amount of the unpaid license fees or $10,
whichever shall be greater.
   (B)   All occupational license fees which remain unpaid after they become
due shall bear interest at the rate of 1% per month (or part thereof). Any
person who fails to pay the occupational license fees when it shall become due,
shall also be charged a penalty of 5% of the amount of the unpaid license fees
for each calendar month (or part thereof). The penalty shall not exceed 25% of
the total tax due and shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to make any return
required by this chapter, or any employer who shall fail to withhold the
occupational license fee, or to pay to the city those so withheld thereunder,
or any person who shall refuse to permit the Collector or any agent or employee
designated by the Collector in writing, to examine books, records, and papers
pertaining to information required thereunder, or who shall knowingly make any
incomplete, false, or fraudulent return, or who shall fail, neglect or refuse
to apply for an occupational license fee reporting number as required by this
chapter, or who shall attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the full
disclosure of the amount of earnings in order to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the license fee, shall become liable to the city for such fees
as well as the interest and penalty thereon; and shall in addition be subject
to citation and upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $100 or more than $500, or imprisonment for
not more than 30 days, or to both fine and imprisonment, for each offense. Such
criminal penalties shall be in addition to the penalties imposed above.
(Ord. 7-24-23, passed 8-28-23; Am. Ord. 3-25-24A, passed 4-22-24)
Cross-reference:
   Fine schedule for ordinances administered by Code Enforcement Board, see §
40.11
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS.  Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.  Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
(`91 Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(`91 Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Council. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(`91 Code, § 111.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation, qualification and suitability shall be made, both with the
ordinance codified herein and any and all applicable Louisville Metro
ordinances, regulations, the Metro Louisville Land Development Code and any
binding elements, or development plan restriction or condition. No application
may proceed until the applicant provides written documentation that they are
fully in compliance with any and all applicable Louisville Metro ordinance and
regulation, the Metro Louisville Land Development Code and any binding element,
or development plan restriction or condition.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
(`91 Code, § 111.04) (Am. Ord. 2-25-13, passed 3-25-13)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Council after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(`91 Code, § 111.05)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
(`91 Code, § 111.06)
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
(`91 Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Council shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
(`91 Code, § 111.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(`91 Code, § 111.99)
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
112.01   Imposition of license fee
   
112.02   Fees to be paid to general revenue fund
   
112.03   Basis for license fee
   
112.04   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
112.05   Due date; interest and refunds
   
112.06   Written breakdown of collections
   
112.07   Inspection of records and accounts
   
112.08   Liability of agents
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee (hereinafter
referred to as a local government premiums tax, "LGPT"), for the privilege of
engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits of the city,
on a calendar-year basis, based upon the following:
   (A)   "Premiums" is defined as premiums actually collected by an insurance
company within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of policies and
contracts of insurance on risks located within the city and includes premiums
on new policies and contracts of insurance and on renewal business, as well as
all other classes of premiums, less all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) below, the license fee
imposed upon each insurance company which issues any insurance policy or
contract of insurance shall be the following percentage of premiums on those
classes of insurance which such company is authorized to issue (the "Base
Fee"):
 Initial Rate
                          Initial Rate
   Fire and Allied Peri8%
Casualty Liability Only   8%
Vehicle                   8%
Inland Marine             8%
Health                    0%
Life                      8%
All other Risks Taxed     8%
 
   The Base Fee shall not apply to premiums exempted by state or federal law.
   (C)   In addition to the Base Fee, an additional license fee in the amount
of 7.5% is hereby imposed by the city upon each insurance company on the
premiums for each class of insurance listed in division (B) above, provided
that Louisville Metro has raised its LGPT rate from 5% to 12.5% effective July
1, 2019 for any of the classes of insurance listed in division (B) above. In
the event the Louisville Metro LGPT effective July l, 2019 is raised to an
amount different than 12.5%, but more than the city's Base Fee, the city hereby
imposes an additional license fee on each class of insurance listed in division
(B) above, equal to the city LGPT credit allowable under KRS 91A.080(l2). In
the event the Louisville Metro LGPT effective July 1, 2019 remains 5% for any
class of insurance listed in division (B) above, the city's Base Fee shall
apply. Health insurance shall not be taxed by city.
(Ord. 2-18-19, Series 2019, passed 2-25-19; Am. Ord. 2-28-22A, Series 2022,
passed 3-21-22)
§ 112.02 FEES TO BE PAID TO GENERAL REVENUE FUND.
   The license fee or tax established by this chapter is imposed and levied for
the purpose of general revenue funds and shall be paid into the general fund of
the city.
(Ord. 2-18-19, Series 2019, passed 2-25-19)
§ 112.03 BASIS FOR LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee or tax imposed by a city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year's premiums
and shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 2-18-19, Series 2019, passed 2-25-19)
§ 112.04 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be of the
premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits ofthe city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   The license fee or tax shall not apply to premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
Subtitle 17B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C. 223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act Pub. L. no. 112-203; or
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by non-profit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county government, urban-county government,
consolidated local government, unified local government, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth.
   (C)   No license fee or tax imposed under this section shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, nonprofit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for-profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(Ord. 2-18-19, Series 2019, passed 2-25-19)
§ 112.05 DUE DATE; INTEREST AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (B)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or tax to
a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that an
insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days notice to the city paid.
   (C)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the date
due until paid.
(Ord. 2-18-19, Series 2019, passed 2-25-19)
§ 112.06 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 2-18-19, Series 2019, passed 2-25-19)
§ 112.07 INSPECTION OF RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS.
   Every insurance company subject to license fees or tax shall maintain
records adequate to support the reports required to be filed under this
chapter. Authority is given to the City of Lyndon or a representative thereof
to make inspection of the accounts and records of the agent or insurance
company to verify the correctness of any report or breakdown of collections.
(Ord. 2-18-19, Series 2019, passed 2-25-19)
§ 112.08 LIABILITY OF AGENTS.
   This section applies to insurance agents and surplus lines brokers to the
extent they are responsible for collection, reporting, and payment of license
fees or taxes pursuant to KRS 91A.080.
(Ord. 2-18-19, Series 2019, passed 2-25-19)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.080, willful failure to properly collect and remit the
license fees or taxes imposed by this chapter may constitute grounds for the
revocation of the license issued to an insurance company or agent under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 304 or may result in other penalties being imposed by
the State Office of Insurance.
(Ord. 2-18-19, Series 2019, passed 2-25-19)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Hours of sale
   
113.02   Training program certification
   
113.03   Sales to minors
Licensing
   
113.10   License required
   
113.11   Expiration of license
   
113.12   Special hours license; fees
   
113.13   Issuance of license; receipt of fees
Administration
   
113.25   Alcoholic beverage control board; rules and regulations
   
113.26   Alcoholic beverage control administrator
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 HOURS OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this section, or any amendment
or supplement thereto:
   (A)   Distilled spirits and wine.
      (1)   To sell, give away, or permit to be sold or given away any
distilled spirits or wine at retail between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight
and 6:00 a.m. on any weekday and Saturday, or between the hours of 12:00 a.m.
and 1:00 p.m. Sunday, or the hours of 9:00 p.m. Sunday and 6:00 a.m. Monday; or
      (2)   To permit the consumption of any distilled spirits or wine on the
licensed premises between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any weekday
and Saturday or between the hours of 12:00 a.m. Sunday and 6:00 a.m. Monday.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (1) and (2), any retail drink or package
licensee under this chapter may sell, permit to be sold, and retail drink
licensees may permit the consumption of, distilled spirits or wine at any time
between 12:00 a.m. on the first Saturday in May of each year through 6:00 a.m.
on the following Sunday.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (1) and (2), any
special hours retail package or drink licensee may sell or permit to be sold
and any special hours retail drink licensees may permit the consumption of
distilled spirits or wine at any time between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 2:00
a.m. and 2:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m. on each day of the week, as long as the
licensee holds a current, corresponding special hours license(s). However, an
extended (special) hours retail package license, as discussed immediately
above, specifically prohibits the sale of distilled spirits and wine on Monday
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m.
   (B)   Malt beverages.
      (1)   To sell, give away, or permit to be sold or given away any malt
beverage at retail between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day of
the week; or
      (2)   To permit the consumption of any malt beverage on the licensed
premises between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day of the week.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (1) and (2), any malt
beverage licensee may sell, permit to be sold, or permit the consumption of
malt beverages at any time between 12:00 a.m. on the first Saturday in May of
each year through 6:00 a.m. on the following Sunday.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (1) and (2), any
special hours malt beverage licensee may sell, permit to be sold, or permit the
consumption of malt beverages between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m.,
and 2:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m. on each day of the week, as long as the licensee
holds a current, corresponding special hours license(s).
   (C)   Sunday.
      (1)   To sell, give away, or permit to be sold or given away any malt
beverage at retail between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight Sunday and 1:00
p.m. Sunday; or
      (2)   To permit the consumption of any malt beverage on the licensed
premises between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight Sunday and 1:00 p.m. Sunday.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (A) and (B), any malt
beverage licensee under this chapter may sell, permit to be sold, or permit the
consumption of malt beverages at any time between 12:00 a.m. on the Sunday
following the first Saturday in May of each year and 6:00 a.m. on the Sunday
following the first Saturday in May of each year, and also at any time between
12:00 p.m. on the Sunday following the first Saturday in May of each year and
12:00 p.m. on Monday, the following day.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (1), (2), (3), and (5),
any special hours retail drink, special hours package, or special hours malt
beverage licensee may sell, permit to be sold, or permit consumption of liquor,
wine, or malt beverages on Sundays between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 2:00
a.m., and 2:00 a.m. to 4:00 a.m., as long as the licensee holds a current,
corresponding special hours license(s).
      (5)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (1), (2), and (3), all
hotels, motels, and restaurants, which are retail drink and wine by the drink
licensees and who have dining facilities with a minimum seating capacity of 100
people at tables and who receive at least 50% or more of their gross annual
income from dining facilities by the sale of food, may sell, permit to be sold,
or permit consumption of liquor or wine on Sundays between the hours of 1:00
p.m. and 12:00 a.m. on Monday, the following day.
(`91 Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 410.2-1982, passed 8-10-82; Am. Ord. 8-22-05, passed
9-26-05; Am. Ord. 9-25-06A, passed 10-23-06; Am. Ord. 6-28-10, passed 7-26-10)
§ 113.02 TRAINING PROGRAM CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   All sellers and retailers of alcoholic beverages, as defined in KRS
Chapters 241 to 244 and KAR Chapters 1 to 11, in the city must be certified in
the training program established and certified by the local ABC Authority, or
one approved through the local ABC authority. It is the responsibility of the
above-defined seller or retailer to insure employees who handle the sale and
service of alcoholic beverages maintain certification. Newly hired personnel
will be given 45 days to obtain their certification. Certification shall be
renewed every three years from the date of program completion. Certification
for the sellers or retailers shall be as follows:
      (1)   Those sellers or retailers holding only a retail beer or package
liquor license where no alcoholic beverages will be consumed on the premises
must have at least one certified person on the premises at all times to be
responsible for all sales of alcoholic beverages.
      (2)   Those with any additional liquor sales license must certify each
and every person who shall be serving or dispensing alcoholic beverages to the
public.
   (B)   Each seller or retailer shall, at the time of applying for its liquor
license, designate in writing a Kentucky resident who shall be responsible for
compliance with this section.
   (C)   The local ABC Officer, in accordance with his or her duties of
enforcement under KRS Statutes and KAR regulation, may take into consideration
that
the seller or retailer is in full compliance with all requirements hereunder.
(Ord. 1-20-98-1997-98, passed 2-16-98; Am. Ord. 2-26-01, passed 3-26-01)
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 SALES TO MINORS.
   The city adopts by reference Jefferson County Fiscal Court Ordinance #27,
relating to the regulation of sales of alcoholic beverages to minors by clerks.
(Ord. 4-24-00A, passed 5-22-00) Penalty, see §
113.99
LICENSING
§ 113.10 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Within the corporate limits of the city, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to do any act authorized by any alcoholic, malt
beverage or wine license with respect to the manufacture, storage, sale,
purchase, transportation or other traffic in alcoholic beverages unless he
holds the kind of license that authorizes such act from the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, County of Jefferson, and City of Lyndon.
(`91 Code, § 113.10) (Ord. 410.2-1982, passed 8-10-82)
§ 113.11 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued shall expire on June 30 of each year.
(`91 Code, § 113.11) (Ord. 410.2-1982, passed 8-10-82)
§ 113.12 SPECIAL HOURS LICENSE; FEES.
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator may issue a special hours license to any
person, firm, or corporation holding a license to sell distilled spirits and
wine at retail upon payment in advance to the City ABC Administrator of an
annual license fee of $350.
   (B)   The City ABC Administrator may issue a special hours license to any
person, firm, or corporation holding a license to sell malt beverages at retail
upon the payment in advance to the City ABC Administrator of an annual license
fee of $100.
(`91 Code, § 113.12) (Ord. 410.2-1984, passed 1-10-84)
§ 113.13 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RECEIPT OF FEES.
   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved and issued by the
City ABC Administrator and shall be those fees authorized under KRS 243.070,
set out below and as amended by Senate Bill 13. All license fees from licenses
issued under this chapter shall be collected by the City ABC Administrator.
Distiller’s license, per annum                                     $500.00
Rectifier’s license, per annum                                     $3,000.00
Wholesaler’s distilled spirit and wine license, per annum          $3,000.00
Quota retail package license, per annum                              $1,200.00
Quota retail drink license, per annum                                $1,600.00
Special temporary license, per event                                 $266.66
Nonquota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,    $2,000.00
wine, and malt beverages), per annum
Nonquota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,    $1,800.00
wine, and malt beverages), per annum
Nonquota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits,    $300.00
wine, and malt beverages), per annum
Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction license, per    $200.00
event
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                       $300.00
Caterer’s license, per annum                                       $800.00
Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum          $1,000.00
Malt beverage licenses as follows:                                   $500.00
Brewer’s license, per annum                                        $500.00
Microbrewery license, per annum                                      $400.00
Malt beverage distributor’s license, per annum                     $200.00
Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per annum             $200.00
Nonquota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum        $100.00
Malt beverage brew-on-premises license, per annum
Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and    $1,800.00
malt beverages), per annum
Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine, and   $1,800.00
malt beverages), per annum
Quota retail package license extended hour, per annum:               $350.00
Midnight - 2:00 a.m.                                                 $700.00
Midnight - 4:00 a.m.
Quota retail drink license extended hours, per annum:                $350.00
Midnight - 2:00 a.m.                                                 $700.00
Midnight - 4:00 a.m.
Nonquota retail malt beverage extended hours, per annum (package and
NQ-4 drink:                                                          $100.00
Midnight - 2:00 a.m.                                                 $200.00
Midnight - 4:00 a.m.
Nonquota type 1, 2 and 3 retail drink licenses, per annum:           $450.00
Midnight - 2:00 a.m.                                                 $900.00
Midnight - 4:00 a.m.
Special temporary license, per event:                                $266.66
Spirits/wine                                                         $12.50
Malt
 
(Ord. 10-28-13, passed 11-25-13; Am. Ord. 1-27-14, passed 2-24-14)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 113.25 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL BOARD; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Any item relating to trafficking in alcoholic beverages that is not covered
by this chapter shall be governed by the rules and regulations established by
the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board of the Commonwealth of Kentucky relating
thereto and the regulations of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(`91 Code, § 113.25) (Ord. 410.2-1982, passed 8-10-82)
§ 113.26 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) Administrator shall administer all
Alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinances and regulations of the city and all
statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky relating thereto and the regulations
of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(`91 Code, § 113.26) (Ord. 410.2-1982, passed 8-10-82)
Cross-reference:
   City Clerk to perform duties of Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator,
see §
31.36
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall, for the first offense, be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $200, or be imprisoned not more than six
months, or both. For the second and subsequent violation, shall be fined not
less than $200 nor more than $500 or be imprisoned not more than six months or
both.
(`91 Code, § 113.99) (Ord. 410.2-1984, passed 1-10-84)
   (B)   Any seller or retailer defined in §
113.02 in violation of that section shall be subject to a fine of at least
$100, but not more than $500 for each violation. Each day of noncompliance
shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 1-20-98-1997-98, passed 2-16-98)
CHAPTER 114: SALES
Section
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Outdoor sales/display
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Merchandise sale in parks prohibited, see §
95.20
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OUTDOOR SALES.  Placement of any item(s) outside a building in a
nonresidential zone as an example of product(s) available for sale or rent.
(Ord. 9-15-97C-1997-98, passed 11-17-97)
§ 114.02 OUTDOOR SALES/DISPLAY.
   Outdoor sales and display is permitted in the C-1, C-2, and C-M zoning
districts under the following conditions:
   (A)   Items placed for outdoor sales or display must be set back 25 feet
from the front property line and can be no more than five feet in height. If
the items for outdoor sales and display are placed within five feet of the
premise’s front door, such items cannot be over three feet in height.
   (B)   Items for outside sales or display cannot cover more than 10% of
available area of the premises.
   (C)   No required parking area may be covered by the items for outdoor sale
or display.
   (D)   Live plant material is exempt from the rules regarding outdoor sales
or display but not from those regarding parking requirements. No live animals
may be the subject of outdoor sales or display. No vehicle in an inoperative
condition may be offered as an outdoor display.
   (E)   An outdoor sales or display permit must be obtained from the city (at
no charge) prior to placing such items on sale or display. The applicant must
submit a drawing to scale of the proposed outdoor sales or display, showing the
proposed sale or display area.
(Ord. 9-15-97C-1997-98, passed 11-17-97) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $25
for each violation. Each day of noncompliance shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 9-15-97C-1997-98, passed 11-17-97)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   (Reserved)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   RESERVED
      
152.   PLANNING, SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Standard Codes
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code; enforcement agents; application
   
150.02   Appeals
   
150.03   Adoption of Kentucky Standards of Safety; enforcement; permits;
appeals
Building Permits and Fees
   
150.15   Permit required
   
150.16   Letter of compliance
Buildings and Structures
   
150.30   Height restrictions
Registration Procedures for Abandoned Property
   
150.45   Purpose
   
150.46   Definitions
   
150.47   Registration of abandoned residential property
   
150.48   Registration
   
150.49   Maintenance requirements
   
150.50   Security requirements
   
150.51   Additional authority
   
150.52   Fees
   
150.53   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
STANDARD CODES
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE; ENFORCEMENT AGENTS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations and the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations,
together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any amendments
thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
   (B)   The Jefferson County Building Inspector shall be designated as the
local enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The Jefferson County Health Department is charged with the enforcement
of the provisions of the Kentucky Plumbing Code.
(`91 Code, § 150.01)
   (D)   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all
single-family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.02 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Jefferson County Building Inspector under
this chapter may be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and
Construction unless and/or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth
in KRS Chapter 198B, is established to hear such appeals.
(`91 Code, § 150.02)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.03 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY STANDARDS OF SAFETY; ENFORCEMENT; PERMITS;
APPEALS.
   (A)   Adoption. The Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code) as
promulgated in 815 KAR 10:060 (and any further amendments thereto) by the
Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction on the
advice and recommendation of the State Fire Marshal, is hereby adopted in full
by the City of Lyndon, Jefferson County, of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
Copies of the code book are available through the Department of Housing,
Buildings and Construction, 1047 U.S. 127 South, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
   (B)   Designated enforcement officer. The Fire Chief of the Lyndon Fire
Protection District, or the said Fire Chief’s designated representative is the
local enforcement agent for the Standards of Safety as adopted by the city.
   (C)   Permits, inspections and fees. The requirements for permits,
inspections and fees shall be as provided for pursuant to 815 KAR 10:060,
Kentucky Standards of Safety and stipulated in the schedule attached to the
ordinance codified herein. Failure to pay fees as provided shall be considered
a violation in itself as allowed under the Standards of Safety. Municipal,
state and federal government entities shall be exempt for all fees. Inspections
shall be conducted at least annually or as often as is practicable. An
inspection permit will be issued upon compliance. Inspection permits shall not
be transferable and shall be valid for a period of time set forth on the
permit. The business occupying a space shall be responsible for complying with
the ordinance codified herein and regulations and fees established herein.
   (D)   Appeal process. All final decisions of the fire code official having
jurisdiction, shall be appealable to Jefferson County Court within 30 days
thereafter.
(Ord. 310.0-1994, passed 2-14-94; Am. Ord. 9-26-11A, passed 10-24-11; Am. Ord.
3-25-13, passed 4-22-13)
BUILDING PERMITS AND FEES
§ 150.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person firm, corporation or association shall construct or develop any
property within the city without a permit from Jefferson County.
(`91 Code, § 150.15)
§ 150.16 LETTER OF COMPLIANCE.
   The city shall issue a letter of compliance to all persons who apply for a
permit. To obtain a letter of compliance for construction or development:
   (A)   A copy of any plans or blueprints for any proposed building or
development must be made available to the City Clerk.
   (B)   The registration must be made at least 30 days prior to any actual
work on any proposed building or development.
(`91 Code, § 150.16)
BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
§ 150.30 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
    (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions as contained in the Louisville-
Jefferson County Planning Commission Regulations or other binding law or
regulations, no building or structure, other than those previously erected or
planned to be erected (as evidenced through actual written plans dated prior to
the enactment of this section and submitted to the City Council) shall exceed
the height of three stories or 45 feet in any zoning district except along the
Hurstbourne Parkway corridor, as that corridor is defined in the map attached
as Exhibit #1 to Ordinance 3-22-99, within the city.
   (B)   The height requirement as prescribed herein applies to main buildings
and accessory buildings, as well as any and all man-made structures not
hereinafter specifically excluded.
   (C)   The height requirement as prescribed herein shall not apply to
chimneys, church spires, electrical transmission lines, elevator bulkheads when
part of a building, fire towers, flag poles, and ornamental towers or spires on
buildings.
(Ord. 920.12-1994, passed 1-17-95; Am. Ord. 3-22-99-1999, passed 4-26-99)
REGISTRATION PROCEDURES FOR
ABANDONED PROPERTY
§ 150.45 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose and intent of the City of Lyndon, through the adoption of
this subchapter, to establish an abandoned buildings registration program as a
mechanism to protect neighborhoods from becoming blighted through the lack of
adequate maintenance and security of abandoned properties.
(Ord. 11-24-14A, passed 12-15-14)
§ 150.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. A property that is vacant and is under a current notice of
default and/or notice of lienholder’s sale, pending tax assessors lien sale
and/or properties that have been the subject of foreclosure sale where the
title was retained by the lienholder of a deed of trust involved in the
foreclosure and any properties transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure/
sale.
   ACCESSIBLE PROPERTY. A property that is accessible through a compromise/
breached gate, fence, wall, and the like.
   ACCESSIBLE STRUCTURE. A structure/ building that is unsecured and/or
breached in such a way as to allow access to the interior space by unauthorized
persons.
   AGREEMENT. Any agreement or written instrument, which provides that title to
residential property, shall be transferred or conveyed from one owner to
another owner after the sale, trade, transfer or exchange.
   ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS. An instrument that transfers the beneficial interest
under a deed of trust from one lender/entity to another.
   BENEFICIARY. A lender under a note secured by a deed of trust.
   BUYER. Any person, co-partnership, association, corporation, or fiduciary
who agrees to transfer anything of value in consideration for property
described in an agreement of sale, as defined in this section.
   CREDITOR. A federal or state chartered bank, savings bank, savings and loan
association, or credit union, and any entity acting on behalf of the creditor
named in the debt obligation, including but not limited to servicers.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building/ structure that is violation of any
condition referenced in this subchapter.
   DAYS. Consecutive calendar days.
   DEED OF TRUST. An instrument by which title to real estate is transferred to
a third party lienholder as security for a real estate loan. Used in Kentucky
instead of a mortgage. This definition applies to any and all subsequent
mortgages i.e.: second trust deed, third deed, and the like.
   DEED IN LIEU OF FORECLOSURE/SALE. A recorded document that transfers
ownership of a property from the lienholder to the holder of a deed of trust
upon consent of the beneficiary of the deed of trust.
   DEFAULT. The failure to fulfill a contractual obligation, monetary or
conditional.
   DISTRESSED. A property that is under a current notice of default and/or
notice of lienholder’s sale and/or pending tax assessor’s lien sale or has been
foreclosed upon by the lienholder or has been conveyed to the beneficiary/
lienholder via a deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions include but are not limited to, overgrown and/or
dead vegetation, accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail,
past due utility notices and/or disconnected utilities, accumulation of trash,
junk and/or debris, the absence of window coverings such as curtains, blinds
and/or shutters, the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent
with residential habitation, statements by neighbors, passerby, delivery
agents, government employees that the property is vacant.
   FORECLOSURE. The process by which a property, placed as security for a real
estate loan, is sold at auction to satisfy the debt if the lienholder
(borrower) defaults.
   LIENHOLDER. The person, firm or corporation holding a deed of trust on a
property.
   LOCAL. Within forty road/driving miles distance of the subject property.
   NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARD. Those conditions that are present on a simple
majority of properties within a 300 foot radius of an individual property. A
property that is the subject of a neighborhood standard comparison, or any
other abandoned property within the 300 foot radius, shall not be counted
toward the simple majority.
   NOTICE OF DEFAULT. A recorded notice that a default has occurred under a
deed of trust and that the beneficiary intends to proceed with a lienholder’s
sale.
   OUT OF AREA. In excess of 40 road/driving miles distance of the subject
property.
   OWNER. Any person, co-partnership, association, corporation, or fiduciary
having a legal or equitable title or any interest in any real property.
   OWNER OF RECORD. The person having recorded title to the property at any
given point in time the record is provided by the City of Lyndon.
   PROPERTY. Any unimproved or improved real property, or portion thereof,
situated in the city and includes the buildings or structures located on the
property regardless of condition.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Any improved real property, or portion thereof,
situated in the city, designed or permitted to be used for dwelling purposes,
and shall include the buildings and structures located on such improved real
property. This includes any real property being offered for sale, trade,
transfer, or exchanges as “residential” whether or not it is legally permitted
and/or zoned for such use.
   SECURING. means such measures as may be directed by the Director of Planning
and Development or his or her designee that assist in rendering the property
inaccessible to unauthorized persons, including but not limited to the
repairing of fences and walls, chaining/pad locking of gates, the repair or
boarding of door, window and/or other openings. Boarding shall be completed to
a minimum of the current HUD securing standards at the time the boarding is
completed or required.
   TRUSTOR. A borrower under a deed of trust, who deeds property to a
lienholder as security for the payment of debt.
   VACANT. A building/structure that is not legally occupied.
(Ord. 11-24-14A, passed 12-15-14)
§ 150.47 REGISTRATION OF ABANDONED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Prior to filing a complaint of foreclosure or executing a deed in lieu
of foreclosure on a residential property a creditor shall inspect the property
to determine whether the property is vacant. If the property is vacant, the
creditor shall, within five days of when the complaint of foreclosure is filed
or executing a deed in lieu of foreclosure is executed, register the property
as a vacant property with the city for the purpose of minimizing hazards to
persons and property as a result of the vacancy.
   (B)   If a residential property becomes vacant at any time after the
creditor files a complaint of foreclosure or executes a deed in lieu of
foreclosure, but prior to vesting of title in the creditor or a third party,
the creditor shall, within five days after obtaining knowledge of vacancy,
register the property as a vacant property with the city for the purpose of
minimizing hazards to persons and property as a result of the vacancy.
(Ord. 11-24-14A, passed 12-15-14)
§ 150.48 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any beneficiary/lienholder, who holds a deed of trust on a property
located within the city, shall perform an inspection of the property that is
the security for the deed of trust, prior to filing a complaint of foreclosure
or executing a deed in lieu of foreclosure. If the property is found to be
vacant or shows evidence of vacancy, it is, by this subchapter, deemed
abandoned and the creditor shall, within five days the complaint of foreclosure
is filed or executing a deed in lieu of foreclosure is executed, register the
property as a vacant property with the city for the purpose of minimizing
hazards to persons and property as a result of the vacancy using the forms
provided by the city.
   (B)   If the property is occupied but remains in default it shall be
inspected by the beneficiary/ lienholder, or his or her designee, monthly until
1) The lienholder other or party remedies the default or 2) it is found to be
vacant or shows evidence of vacancy at which time it is deemed abandoned, and
the lienholder shall, within five days of that inspection, register the
property with the city on forms provided by the city.
   (C)   The registration shall contain the name of the beneficiary/lienholder
(corporation or individual), the direct street/office mailing address of the
beneficiary/ lienholder (no P.O. boxes), a direct contact name and phone number
for the beneficiary/lienholder and, in the case of a corporation or out of area
beneficiary/ lienholder, the local property management company responsible for
the security, maintenance and marketing of the property. Registration fees will
not be prorated.
   (D)   An annual registration fee shall accompany the registration form. The
fee and registration shall be valid for the calendar year, or remaining portion
of the calendar year, in which the registration was initially required.
Subsequent registrations and fees are due January 1 of each year and must be
received no later than January 31 of the year due. This section shall also
apply to properties that have been the subject of a foreclosure sale where the
title was transferred to the lienholder of a deed of trust involved in the
foreclosure and any properties transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure/
sale. Properties subject to this chapter shall remain under the annual
registration requirement, security and maintenance standards of this section as
long as they remain vacant. Any person, firm or corporation that has registered
a property under this subchapter must report any change of information
contained in the registration within ten days of the change.
(Ord. 11-24-14A, passed 12-15-14)
§ 150.49 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Properties subject to this section shall be, in comparison to the
neighborhood standard, kept free of weeds, dry bush, dead vegetation, trash,
junk, debris, building materials, any accumulation of newspapers, circulars,
flyers, notices, accept those required by federal, state or local law,
discarded personal items including but not limited to, furniture, clothing,
large and small appliances, printed material or any other items that give the
appearance that the property is abandoned. The property shall be maintained
free of graffiti, tagging or similar markings by removal or painting over with
an exterior grade paint that matches the color of the exterior of the
structure. Visible front and side yards shall be landscaped and maintained to
the neighborhood standard at the time registration was required. Landscape
includes, but is not limited to, grass, ground covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges
or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark or artificial turf/sod designed
especially for residential installation. Landscape does not include weeds,
gravel, broken concrete, asphalt, decomposed granite, plastic sheeting, mulch,
indoor-outdoor carpet or any similar material. Maintenance includes, but is not
limited to regular watering, irrigation, cutting, pruning and mowing of
required landscaped and removal of all trimmings. Pools and spas shall be kept
in working order so the water remains clear and free of pollutants and debris
or drained and kept dry. In either case properties with pools and/or spas must
comply with the minimum security fencing requirements of the State of Kentucky.
Adherence to this section does not relieve the beneficiary/lienholder or
property owner of any obligations set forth in any covenants conditions and
restrictions and/or home owners association rules and regulations which may
apply to the property.
(Ord. 11-24-14A, passed 12-15-14)
§ 150.50 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this section shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   (B)   Vacated building maintenance standards. A building shall be deemed
adequately protected from intrusion by trespassers and from deterioration by
the weather if:
      (1)   Building openings. doors, windows, areaways and other openings are
weather tight and secured against entry by birds, vermin and trespassers.
Missing or broken doors, windows and opening coverings are covered with at
least one-half inch of CDX plywood, weather protected, tightly fitted to the
opening and secured by screws or bolts.
      (2)   Roofs. The roof and flashings are sound, tight, will not admit
moisture, and drained to prevent dampness or deterioration in the walls or
interior.
      (3)   Drainage. The building gutters and downspouts are watertight and
entire storm drainage system is adequately sized, installed in an approved
manner, functional and discharged in an approved manner.
      (4)   Building structure. The building is maintained in good repair,
structurally sound, free from debris, rubbish and garbage, and sanitary, and
interior floors, walking surfaces and stairs are structurally sound, and
interior walls and ceilings are free of loose or hanging plaster and finishes,
so as not to pose a threat to the public health or safety.
      (5)   Structural members. The structural members are free of
deterioration and capable of safely bearing imposed dead and live loads.
      (6)   Foundation walls. The foundation walls are plumb, free from open
cracks and breaks, and rat-proof.
      (7)   Exterior walls. The exterior walls are free of holes, breaks, and
loose or rotting materials. Exposed metal and wood surfaces are protected from
the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather
coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
      (8)   Decorative features. The cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra
cotta trim, wall facings and similar decorative features are safe, anchored,
and in good repair. Exposed metal and wood surfaces are protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
      (9)   Structure extensions. All balconies, porches, canopies, marquees,
signs, metal awnings, cornices, stairways, fire escapes, standpipes, exhaust
ducts and similar features are in good repair, anchored, safe and sound.
Exposed metal and wood surfaces are protected from the elements and against
decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating materials, such as
paint or similar surface treatment.
      (10)   Chimneys and towers. Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks, and
similar appurtenances are structurally safe. Exposed metal and wood surfaces
are protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic
application of weather coating materials, such as paint or similar surface
treatment.
      (11)   Sidewalk openings. Yardwalks, steps, and openings in sidewalks are
safe for pedestrian travel.
      (12)   Accessory and Appurtenant Structures. Accessory and appurtenant
structures such as garages, sheds, and fences are free from safety, health, and
fire hazards.
      (13)   Premises. The premise on which a structure is located is clean,
safe and sanitary, maintained free of weeds, junk cars, and litter, and does
not pose a threat to the public health or safety.
   (C)   The property shall be posted with name and a 24-hour contact phone
number of the local property management company. The posting shall be no less
than 18" x 24" and shall be of font that is legible from a distance of 45 feet
and shall contain along with the name and 24-hour contact number the words
“THIS PROPERTY MANAGED BY” and “TO REPORT PROBLEMS OR CONCERNS CALL”. The
posting shall be placed on the interior of a window facing the street to the
front of the property so it is visible from the street, or secured to the
exterior of the building/structure facing the street to the front of the
property so it is visible from the street or if no such area exists, on a stake
of sufficient size to support the posting in a location that is visual from the
street to the front of the property but not readily accessible to vandals.
Exterior postings must be constructed of and printed with weather resistant
materials. The local property management company shall inspect the property
every 30 days to determine if the property is in compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter. Compliance with this inspection requirement
shall not diminish the obligation of the registrant to perform regular
maintenance that would be expected in between inspections, including but not
limited to grass cutting and weed control.
(Ord. 11-24-14A, passed 12-15-14)
§ 150.51 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.
   In addition to the enforcement remedies established in this subchapter, the
city’s designated enforcement official shall have the authority to require the
beneficiary/lienholder/owner and/or owner of record of any property affected by
this section, to implement additional maintenance and/or security measures
including but not limited to, securing any/all door, window or other openings,
installing additional security lighting, increasing on-site inspection
frequency, employment of on-site security guard or other measures as may be
reasonably required to arrest the decline of the property.
(Ord. 11-24-14A, passed 12-15-14)
§ 150.52 FEES.
   The fee for registering an abandoned residential property shall be$60 made
payable to “City of Lyndon” and submitted to the City of Lyndon, 515 Wood Rd,
Lyndon, KY 40222, along with the required registration application. This
registration fee and application are to be renewed annually by no later than
January 31 of each year.
(Ord. 11-24-14A, passed 12-15-14)
§ 150.53 APPEALS. Any person aggrieved by any of the requirements of this
subchapter may appeal insofar as such appeal is allowed to the city.
(Ord. 11-24-14A, passed 12-15-14)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the State Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. (KRS 318.990)
      (3)   A violation of §
150.03 constitutes a Class B Misdemeanor carrying a penalty not to exceed 90
days imprisonment and/or $250 in fines. (Ord. 310.01-1994, passed 6-7-94)
      (4)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the terms of §
150.30 or failing to obey an order of the City Council shall be deemed guilty
of a violation, and be fined not less than $100 and not more than $500. Where
such violation is of a continuing nature, each day in violation shall be deemed
a separate offense, subject to the same fines mentioned above. The city by
imposing any fines does not hereby waive any rights it may have to require the
termination, removal, or destruction of the building or structure in violation
through a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   If a residential property becomes or remains vacant as provided
in §§
150.45 through
150.53, but prior to vesting of title in the creditor or any third party, and
the city’s designated enforcement official determines the property is in
violation of the city’s nuisance ordinance, the city’s designated enforcement
official shall notify the creditor of the violation by providing notice of the
violation by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the person identified
in the registration application, and shall require the creditor to correct the
violation to the extent consistent with the terms of the mortgage.
      (2)   A building inspector that requires a creditor to correct a
violation pursuant to §§
150.45 through
150.53 shall include a description of the conditions that give rise to the
violation with the notice of violation and shall provide a period of not less
than 20 days from the creditor’s receipt of the notice for the creditor to
remedy the violation. If the creditor fails to remedy the violation within the
stated period the local government may issue a citation and impose penalties
against the creditor for violation of the applicable ordinance. The violation
for failure to comply shall be subject to a fine of $250 payable to the City of
Lyndon for each day of delinquency.
(Ord. 920.12-1994, passed 1-17-95; Am. Ord. 3-22-99-1999, passed 4-26-99; Am.
Ord. 11-24-14A, passed 12-15-14)
Cross-reference:
   Fine schedule for ordinances administered by Code Enforcement Board, see §
40.11
CHAPTER 151: RESERVED
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING, SUBDIVISIONS AND ZONING
Section
Adoption of Regulations
   
152.01   City zoning regulations adopted
   
152.02   Comprehensive plan adopted
   
152.03   Amendments
Procedure and Code of Conduct
for Zoning Matters
   
152.15   Receipt of Planning Commission minutes; entries in docket book
   
152.16   Action taken during zoning proceedings; notification of interested
parties
   
152.17   Resubmission of zoning matter to Planning Commission
   
152.18   Reactions of the city in response to proposed zoning change
   
152.19   Lawyers to follow rules of civil procedure
   
152.20   Parties may resubmit motion for rehearing
   
152.21   Final action by city; delay in vote
   
152.22   Order of business
   
152.23   Basing of final decision; additional evidence
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.40   Definitions
   
152.41   Enforcement of binding elements
   
152.42   Planning Commission; authority
   
152.43   Form citations and issuance
   
152.44   Hearings
   
152.45   Appeals
   
152.46   Payment of fines
   
152.47   Civil action
 
   
152.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS
§ 152.01 CITY ZONING REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Zoning District Regulations of the Louisville and Jefferson County
Planning Commission be, and hereby are, incorporated into and made a part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if copied herein. The Zoning District
Regulations are hereby adopted as the City of Lyndon Zoning Regulations.
   (B)   The Metropolitan Subdivision Regulations of the Louisville and
Jefferson County Planning Commission be, and hereby are, incorporated into and
made a part of this code of ordinances as fully as if copied herein. The
Metropolitan Subdivision Regulations of the Louisville and Jefferson County
Planning Commission are hereby adopted as the City of Lyndon Zoning
Regulations.
   (C)   Copies of the City of Lyndon Zoning Regulations are available for
public inspection during normal hours at the office of the City Clerk.
(`91 Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 930.1-1985, passed 9-9-85)
§ 152.02 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan for Louisville and Jefferson County adopted
heretofore, and all amendments, changes and/or deletions thereto, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated into this code of ordinances as if fully
set forth herein.
   (B)   It is the intention of the city to be bound by the terms of said
Comprehensive Plan, so far as they relate specifically to the said city’s
actions.
   (C)   Copies of said Comprehensive Plan are available for public inspection
during normal hours at the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 920.3-1985, passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. 1-24-00, passed 2-27-00)
   (D)   There is hereby adopted the Statement of Goals and Objectives attached
to Ordinance 4-21-97-1996-97 and incorporated herein by reference.
      (1)   This statement of goals and objectives shall be readopted, when the
remaining elements of the revised Comprehensive Plan and interim or permanent
land use regulations are prepared and ready for adoption.
      (2)   The adoption herein shall not affect a repeal of revocation of the
existing Comprehensive Plan elements and Development Code which shall remain in
full force and effect until such time as all revisions to the Comprehensive
Plan and Development Code are prepared and adopted.
(Ord. 4-21-97-1996-97, passed 5-19-97)
§ 152.03 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The amendments adopted to the Development Code (Zoning District
Regulations) for all of Jefferson County, by action of the Louisville and
Jefferson County Planning Commission through Docket No. 9-64-87 and Docket No.
10-24-87, are hereby adopted by the city. (Ord. 930.1-1988, passed 2-8-88; Am.
Ord. 3-26-07, passed 4-23-07)
   (B)   The following amendments and/or regulations are hereby adopted:
      (1)   Docket Nos. 10-9-86 and 9-42-86 — Amendments to Zoning District
Regulations and Subdivision Regulations Development Code;
      (2)   Docket No. 9-66-86 — Sign Regulations Sec. I, III and V Zoning
District Regulation;
      (3)   Docket No. 9-42-86 — Article 12 Landscape Regulations;
      (4)   Docket No. 9-15-87 — Amendment Flood Plain Regulations;
      (5)   Docket No. 9-64-87 — Development Code Amendments;
      (6)   Docket No. 10-24-87 — Subdivision Regulations Amendments;
      (7)   Docket No. 9-1-86 — Sign Regulations Amendments;
      (8)   Docket No. 9-2-88 — Flood Plain Regulations Amendments Article 13;
      (9)   Docket No. 9-96-87 — Article 15 Development Code Underground Space;
      (10)   Docket No. 9-107-87 — Delete Adult Entertainment Definitions
Development Code;
      (11)   Docket No. 9-1-88 — Article 11 Development Code Sign Regulations
Revised;
      (12)   Docket No. 9-92-87 — Create Overlay and W-1, W-2, W-3;
      (13)    Docket No. 15-88 — Snyder Freeway;
      (14)   Docket No. 9-97-87 — Waterfront Ordinance 99 Certain Parcels M-
3 to C-M Ex. A;
      (15)   Docket No. 9-44-88 — Article 4 R-R, R-E, R-1;
      (16)   Docket No. 9-49-88 — Article 6, Section 6.2 permit outdoor
restaurant not entertainment and no alcoholic beverages in C-1;
      (17)   Docket Nos. 9-69-88, 10-37-88 — Article 2, Article 10, Section
10.1, Article 14, Article 15, Article 1;
      (18)   Docket No. 9-80-88 — Section 9.1 Signature Entrances, Fences,
Walls;
      (19)   Docket Nos. 9-84-88, 10-37-88 — Article 4 — creation R-5B (9-84-
88), Article 3 — 3.40 Metropolitan Subdivision Regulations;
      (20)   Docket No. 9-100-88 — Amendment Development Code Section 9.2 and
9.6 residential setback from expressways in nonresidential areas and Article 2
Definition Noise Sensitive Community Facilities.
(Ord. 89.5-1989, passed 4-14-89)
   (C)   The following amendments and/or regulations are hereby adopted:
      (1)   Docket # 9-97-89 - Amendment to the Development Code creating a new
zoning district, Corridor Review Overlay, establishing a mandatory design
review process for most new development or exterior changes to underlying
property.
      (2)   Docket # 16-1-89 - Revision to Core Graphic Map 13 of the
Comprehensive Plan “Functional Highway Classification and Projected Corridors.”
      (3)   Dockets # 9-122-89 and 10-1-90 - Proposed amendments to the
Development Code for all of Jefferson County, Kentucky including:
Article 2                     definition of day care center
Section 4.2                   reference to development plan for density
                              increase
Section 4.7                   to correct reference concerning semi-detached
                              dwellings
Articles 6.1 and 6.2          to delete temporary parking as a conditional use
Sections 6.2 and 6.3          revised to allow tents and temporary structures
                              for 30 days each
Section 6.6                   the addition of indoor recycling
Section 6.7                   changed to permit commercial uses only if
                              ancillary to industrial uses
Section 6.10                  delete the R-T River Terminal and M-R Riverfront
                              Industrial District
Section 7.2                   clarify language in the PEC District
Section 7.3                   amend definitions and development standards
Section 7.6                   delete reference to river pool and R-7 zone
Section 7.7                   references and hearings in the Waterfront
                              Development Review Overlay District
Section 9.8                   creation of a new section concerning preservation
                              of inactive cemeteries
Articles 9, 10, 11, 12 and 15 add references concerning the R-5B District
Section 10.1                  changes in parking regulations
Article 11                    add reference to W-3 zone concerning signs
Article 12                    landscape islands in parking lots
Article 14.2                  revising procedures for street closing
Article 15                    correct typographical errors
Article 16                    deleting fee schedule
Article 17                    revised to expedite the enforcement process
                              Amend Article 2 revised time period for plan
Subdivision Regulations       review, from 60 to 90 days; appropriate changes
                              concerning Article 5 revised to require
                              preliminary plans to show cemeteries.
 
      (4)   Docket No# 10-3-91 - Amendment to Article 3 of the Subdivision
Regulations of the Development Code for Jefferson County - Standards of Design
for Major Subdivisions.
      (5)   Docket No# 9-30-90 - Amendment to Section 6.3 (C-2 Commercial Zone)
of the Development Code to permit bingo halls and parlors.
      (6)   Docket No# 9-79-90 - Amendment to Article 13, concerning Floodplain
Regulations of the Development Code for all of Jefferson County Kentucky.
      (7)   Docket No# 9-43-91 - Proposed revision of the Development Review
Overlay District, Section 7.3 of the Zoning District Regulations.
(Ord.920.0-1991, passed 1-13-92)
   (D)   The following amendments and/or regulations as written and adopted by
the Louisville and Jefferson County Planning Commission are hereby adopted by
the city:
      (1)   Dockets #9-67-91 and 10-27-91 - Amendments to the Development Code
for all of Jefferson County, Kentucky concerning creation of a new Conditional
Use for In-Home Day Care, Parking Waiver for the Central Business District and
various other changes, with the exception of the revised definition of
Restaurant as found in section 2 of the Development Code.
      (2)   Docket #9-59-92 - Various amendments to the Development Code,
including revised regulations governing auto service stations in the C-1 Zone,
revision of the R-R and DRO Districts; addition of the Solid Waste Transfer
Station use category in M-2; and creation of the C-R Commercial-Residential
Zone, with the exception of the definition and regulations governing
residential kennels.
      (3)   Docket #15-1-92 - Adoption of the Hurstbourne Parkway Corridor
Study which addresses future land use, transportation improvements, and visual
quality along Hurstbourne Parkway, from KY 22 to Bardstown Road, along Fern
Valley Road from Preston Highway to Poplar Level Road, and along the projected
corridor linking those two roadways.
(Ord. 930.1-1994, passed 3-1-94)
   (E)   The following amendment is hereby adopted: Docket #9-27-97 - Amendment
to Article 11.D(b) of the Land Development Code Regarding Business Facade
Signage. (Ord. 5-19-97-1997, passed 6-16-97)
   (F)   An amendment to the Development Code as recommended by the Jefferson
County Planning Commission is adopted, repealing Article 13 of the Zoning
District Regulation floodplain regulation. (Ord. 11-17-97-1997-98, passed 12-
15-97)
   (G)   The recommended proposed revisions to Zoning District Regulations
Docket #9-26-00, as recommended by the Jefferson County Planning Commission, is
adopted. (Ord. 6-26-00A, passed 7-24-00)
   (H)   The proposed revision to the Land Development Code, Docket #9-12-02,
as recommended by the Jefferson County Planning Commission, is adopted. (Ord.
9-23-02, passed 1-27-03)
   (I)   The following proposed revisions to the Land Development Code, Docket
#9-26-03, as recommended by the Louisville and Jefferson County Planning
Commission, are adopted:
      Section 2.6.1      enterprise zone
      Section 4.1.3      lighting
      Chapter 4, Part 3   permitted uses with special standards
      Chapter 5, Part 3   traditional neighborhood form district
      Chapter 5, Part 4   neighborhood form district
      Chapter 10, Part 1   tree canopy
(Ord. 7-28-03, passed 8-25-03)
   (J)   The proposed revision to the Land Development Code regarding the
location of adult entertainment establishments in the U-N Zoning District,
Docket #9-7-04, as recommended by the Louisville Metro Planning and Design
Services, is adopted. (Ord. 4-26-04C, passed 5-24-04)
   (K)   The proposed revision to the Land Development Code, Docket #9-66-03,
recommended by the Louisville Metro Planning and Design Services, is adopted.
(Ord. 4-26-04D, passed 5-24-04)
   (L)   The following proposed revisions to the Land Development Code, Docket
#9-27-03, recommended by the Louisville Metro Planning Commission, are adopted:
      Chapter 1, Part 2   definition of adult entertainment
      Section 2.6.1      EZ-1 Enterprise Zone District
      Section 4.4.1      adult entertainment activities
(Ord. 6-28-04, passed 7-26-04)
   (M)   The proposed revision to the Land Development Code regarding Chapter
4, Part 5 — alternative development incentives, Docket #9-58-03, recommended by
the Louisville Metro Planning Commission, is adopted. (Ord. 6-28-04A, passed 7-
26-04)
   (N)   The proposed amendment to the Land Development Code regarding Chapter
2, Part 5 — M-3 zoning district to allow sports arenas, Case #11208,
recommended by the Louisville Metro Planning Commission, is adopted.
(Ord. 6-22-09, passed 7-27-09)
   (O)   The proposed amendments to the Land Development Code, Ord. 7-27-09,
recommended by the Louisville Metro Planning Commission, are adopted.
   (P)   The proposed amendments to the Land Development Code, Ord. 6-28-10B,
recommended by the Louisville Metro Planning Commission, are adopted.
   (Q)   Approving Land Development Code amendments to Chapter 8 and related
sections pertaining to signs, as adopted by Ord. 10-25-10.
   (R)   Approving Land Development Code Amendments of Chapter 10, relating to
the tree canopy, tree protection and enforcement and Chapter 2, allowing an
indoor go-kart track as a permitted use to PEC Zoning District, as adopted by
Ord. 1-24-11A.
   (S)   The proposed amendments to the Land Development Code, Ord. 8-26-24,
recommended by the Louisville Metro Planning and Design Services, are adopted.
(Ord. 7-27-09, passed 9-28-09; Am. Ord. 6-28-10B, passed 7-26-10; Am. Ord. 10-
25-10, passed 11-22-10; Am. Ord. 1-24-11A, passed 2-28-11; Am. Ord. 8-26-24,
passed 9-23-24)
PROCEDURE AND CODE OF CONDUCT
FOR ZONING MATTERS
§ 152.15 RECEIPT OF PLANNING COMMISSION MINUTES; ENTRIES IN DOCKET BOOK.
   (A)   Promptly upon the receipt by the City Clerk of the minutes forwarded
by the Planning Commission with respect to its initial recommendations or
revised recommendations concerning any zoning matters, the City Clerk shall
make entries into a docket book to be kept by the Clerk for zoning matters
only.
      (1)   The name of the applicant and the Planning Commission docket
number.
      (2)   The date the minutes were received.
      (3)   The date that a copy of the Planning Commission’s minutes was sent
to each member of the City Council, the Mayor and the City Attorney.
      (4)   A brief description of the location of the property.
      (5)   All subsequent proceedings.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the minutes, the Clerk shall place the matter upon the
first call at the next regular meeting of the city, and shall give not less
than five days notice, by mail, of the receipt of the minutes and the time and
date of the first calling of the matter. Such notice shall be given to the
applicant, the Planning Commission, all lawyers of record and all parties who
spoke at the public hearing before the Planning Commission, as shown by the
minutes.
(`91 Code, § 152.15) (Ord. 920.11-1982, passed 9-14-82)
§ 152.16 ACTION TAKEN DURING ZONING PROCEEDINGS; NOTIFICATION OF INTERESTED
PARTIES.
   (A)   During the course of a zoning proceeding, the following action may be
taken:
      (1)   Any party may file written motions including a motion for filing
additional evidence, with the City Clerk at least three days before the first
call of the case.
      (2)   The city may upon a showing of exceptional or compelling
circumstances determine that it will hold another hearing and fix a time and
date for such hearing.
      (3)   The city may return the matter to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   After any action in the matter has been taken, the City Clerk shall
notify the Commission, the applicant, all lawyers of record and all interested
persons of record.
(`91 Code, § 152.16) (Ord. 920.11-1982, passed 9-14-82)
§ 152.17 RESUBMISSION OF ZONING MATTER TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   In the event the city returns the matter to the Planning Commission for
further study, it shall set forth in writing the specific reasons for returning
the matter to the Commission and shall advise the Commission concerning the
type of further action which it desires the Commission to take, specifying the
time within which it shall resubmit the matter to the city with the further
report. The Commission may be granted additional time for good cause within
which it shall return its further recommendations. The matter shall then
proceed as the city directs.
(`91 Code, § 152.17) (Ord. 920.11-1982, passed 9-14-82)
§ 152.18 REACTIONS OF THE CITY IN RESPONSE TO PROPOSED ZONING CHANGE.
   The city may approve the proposed change, partially approve and partially
reject, reject the proposed change, or return the proposal to the Planning
Commission for further action. The decision of the city shall be mailed and
delivered to the persons notified in §
152.16 (B) within ten days after the minutes of the city are approved.
(`91 Code, § 152.18) (Ord. 920.11-1982, passed 9-14-82)
§ 152.19 LAWYERS TO FOLLOW RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE.
   Lawyers practicing zoning matters shall follow the rules of civil procedure.
The court may require the same procedure of others. The City Attorney and the
lawyer for the Planning Commission shall be lawyers of record.
(`91 Code, § 152.19) (Ord. 920.11-1982, passed 9-14-82)
§ 152.20 PARTIES MAY RESUBMIT MOTION FOR REHEARING.
   Any party of record may submit a motion to the city for reconsideration or
rehearing within ten days after the decision of the city becomes final, such
decision to become final upon certification thereof by the City Clerk.
(`91 Code, § 152.20) (Ord. 920.11-1982, passed 9-14-82)
§ 152.21 FINAL ACTION BY CITY; DELAY IN VOTE.
   Final action by the city in every zoning case shall be voted within 90 days
of receipt from the Planning Commission. The Clerk shall automatically place
any pending zoning case on the docket of the last city meeting before the 90
day period expires. No such pending case may be further delayed, except with
the concurring vote of a majority of the entire City Council, including the
Mayor.
(`91 Code, § 152.21) (Ord. 920.11-1982, passed 9-14-82)
§ 152.22 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Call to order by the presiding officer.
   (B)   Reading the minutes of the Special Zoning Meeting, unless dispensed
with by the city and approved.
   (C)   Old business and matters deferred by past action.
   (D)   New zoning matters to come before the city.
(`91 Code, § 152.22) (Ord. 920.11-1982, passed 9-14-82)
§ 152.23 BASING OF FINAL DECISION; ADDITIONAL EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Decisions shall be based on the Planning Commission public record, the
staff report of the Planning Commission, the arguments at the Planning
Commission public hearing, any motions and determinations made thereon, any
additional evidence made a part of the official record of the city and any
public hearings held by the city. It will be the responsibility of the
applicant to provide the city with a transcript of any necessary Planning
Commission public hearings.
   (B)   No additional evidence in the form of exhibits, petitions, letters,
personal contacts or otherwise shall be considered by the city in reaching a
decision on any zoning matter unless such additional evidence is made a part of
the official record pursuant to order of the city and after all interested
parties have been afforded an opportunity to rebut such additional evidence.
Such additional evidence shall not be made a part of the record unless the
motion is supported by a valid reason why such evidence is presented at the
Planning Commission public hearing.
   (C)   Any additional evidence as described in division (B) of this section
shall be filed with the City Clerk. Such evidence shall be available for
inspection and made a part of the official record upon motion and order.
   (D)   Personal contacts with interested parties which tend to exert pressure
or influence in zoning cases pending before the city shall be avoided by
members of the city government.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the Mayor, Councilmembers or
Planning Commission members from making a personal inspection of the site.
(`91 Code, § 152.23) (Ord. 920.11-1982, passed 9-14-82)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BINDING ELEMENT. A binding requirement, provision, restriction, or condition
imposed by the Planning Commission or its designee, or a promise or agreement
made by an applicant in writing, in connection with the approval of a land use
development plan or subdivision plan.
   CITY CITATION OFFICER. A duly appointed citation officer from the city.
   LAND USE ENFORCEMENT. A zoning enforcement officer employed by the Planning
Commission.
   LAND USE ORDINANCE. An official action of the city which is a regulation of
a general and permanent nature relating to the use and development of land
within the city. It is enforceable as a local law and includes any provision of
the city Code of Ordinances, which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Louisville and Jefferson County Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 9-25-00, passed 10-23-00)
§ 152.41 ENFORCEMENT OF BINDING ELEMENTS.
   The violation of any binding element, as defined in §
152.40, shall constitute a civil offense which may subject the violator to a
civil fine and/or other remedial orders of the Planning Commission in
accordance with procedures set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 9-25-00, passed 10-23-00) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.42 PLANNING COMMISSION; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Commission may issue remedial orders and impose
civil fines as a method of enforcing a binding element when a violation of that
binding element has occurred.
      (2)   If the violation of a binding element would also constitute an
offense under any provision of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, including
specifically, and without limitation, any provision of the Kentucky Penal Code
and any moving motor vehicle offense, such a violation of a binding element
shall not be a civil offense under this subchapter, but a criminal offense
which may be prosecuted in the court of appropriate jurisdiction.
   (B)   In the exercise of its authority under this subchapter, the Planning
Commission shall have the power to:
      (1)   Adopt rules and regulations to govern its operation and conduct of
its hearing that are consistent with requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   Conduct hearings to determine whether there has been a violation of
a binding element;
      (3)   Subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings
and all such subpoenas issued by the Planning Commission may be served by and
Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer;
      (4)   Take testimony under oath, and the Chairman of the Planning
Commission may administer such oaths to witnesses prior to their testimony
before the Planning Commission on any matter;
      (5)   Make findings and issue orders that are necessary to remedy any
violation of a binding element;
      (6)   Impose civil fines as authorized in this subchapter on any person
found to have violated any binding element that the Planning Commission is
authorized to enforce.
(Ord. 9-25-00, passed 10-23-00)
§ 152.43 FORM CITATIONS AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings for the violation of a binding element shall
be initiated by the issuance of a citation by either a Land Use Enforcement or
Citation Officer from Jefferson County or the City Citation Officer.
   (B)   When a Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer, based upon personal
observation or investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a violation
of a binding element has occurred, the officer may issue a warning notice and
citation to the offender. Prior to issuing a citation, however, the officer
shall issue a warning notice giving the offender ten days, Saturdays, Sundays
and Holidays excluded, in which to remedy the violation. If the person to whom
the notice is given fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the
specified time, the Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer may issue a
citation. However, if the violation is a threat to the public safety, the Land
Use Enforcement or Citation Officer immediately shall issue a citation without
a prior warning notice.
   (C)   The citation issued by the Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer
shall be in a form prescribed by the Planning Commission and shall contain, in
addition to any other information required by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the violation of the binding element was
committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the violation of the element violated;
      (5)   The name of the Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer;
      (6)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (7)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (8)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or to contest the citation within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the
Planning Commission to contest the citation, and that the determination that a
violation was committed shall be final.
   (D)   All citations issued shall be hand-delivered to the alleged violator.
After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Land Use Enforcement or
Citation Officer shall notify the Planning Commission by delivering the
citation to the administrative official designated by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is issued
shall respond to the citation within 14 days of the date the citation is issued
by either paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting, in
writing, a hearing before the Planning Commission to contest the citation. If
the person fails to respond to the citation within 14 days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this
event, the Planning Commission shall enter a final order determining that the
violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set forth in the citation.
(Ord. 9-25-00, passed 10-23-00)
§ 152.44 HEARINGS.
   (A)   When a hearing before the Planning Commission has been requested, the
Planning Commission, through its clerical and administrative staff, shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted within 30 days of the date
of the request, unless the person who requested the hearing requests or agrees
to a continuance not to exceed 30 days. All continuances must receive the
approval of the Planning Commission. Not less than seven days before the date
set for the hearing, the Planning Commission shall notify the person who
requested the hearing of the date, time and place of the hearing. The notice
may be given by certified mail, return-receipt requested; by personal delivery;
or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of resident with any
individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed
of the contents of the notice. Any person requesting a hearing before the
planning Commission who fails to appear at the time and place set for the
hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to contest the
citation and the determination that a violation was committed shall be final.
In this event, the Planning Commission shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set forth in the
citation.
   (B)   Each case before a Planning Commission shall be presented by an
attorney who shall be counsel to the Planning Commission.
   (C)   All testimony before the Planning Commission shall be under oath and
shall be recorded. The Planning Commission shall take testimony from the Land
Use Enforcement or Citation Officer, the alleged offender, and any witnesses to
the alleged violation offered by the Land Use Enforcement or Citation Officer
or the alleged offender. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (D)   After the hearing, the Planning Commission shall determine, based on
the evidence presented, whether a violation was committed. When the Planning
Commission determines that no violation was committed, an order dismissing the
citation shall be entered. When the Planning Commission determines that a
violation has been committed, it shall issue an order upholding the citation
and may order the offender to pay a civil fine in an amount up to the maximum
authorized by this subchapter, or may order the offender to remedy a continuing
violation within a specified time to avoid the imposition of a fine, or both,
as authorized herein.
   (E)   Every final order of the Planning Commission shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the date the order was issued, and a copy of the
order shall be furnished to the person named in the citation. If the person
named in the citation is not present at the time a final order of the Planning
Commission is issued, the order shall be delivered to that person by certified
mail, return-receipt requested; by personal delivery, or by leaving a copy of
the order at that person’s usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the order.
(Ord. 9-25-00, passed 10-23-00)
§ 152.45 APPEALS.
   Any final order issued by the Planning Commission with respect to a citation
for the violation of a binding element may be appealed in conformity with KRS
100.413.
(Ord. 9-25-00, passed 10-23-00)
§ 152.46 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   The person or entity found to have committed a violation of a binding
element shall be responsible for the amount of all fines assessed for the
violation. A Planning Commission may file a civil action in its name against
the person or entity and shall have the remedies provided in KRS 100.415.
(Ord. 9-25-00, passed 10-23-00)
§ 152.47 CIVIL ACTION.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking
immediate action in the court of appropriate jurisdiction to remedy a violation
of a binding element when there is reason to believe that the existence of the
binding element violation presents a serious thereat to the public health,
safety, and welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of
the binding element violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 9-25-00, passed 10-23-00)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other specific penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates a binding element, as set forth under the
provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.45, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500 nor more than $4,000,
and shall comply with such remedial orders as may be issued by the Planning
Commission. Each day during which the binding element violation exists after
the period granted by §
152.43 to remedy the violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 9-25-00, passed 10-23-00)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS AND DE-ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   STREET CLOSINGS
      
V.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
VI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VII.   BONDS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
                       Authorizing an agreement between the city and the
610.0-1987 1-13-87     Metropolitan Sewer District concerning terms of
                       annexation relative to construction and maintenance of
                       drainage facilities
                       Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
                       insurance; authorizing execution of an Interlocal
200.0-1987 5-26-87     Cooperation Agreement to establish the Kentucky
                       Municipal Risk Management Association; authorizing the
                       issuance of revenue bonds
                       Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-
                       insurance; authorizing execution of an Interlocal
90.02-1990 3-26-90     Cooperation Agreement to establish the Kentucky
                       Municipal Risk Management Association; authorizing the
                       issuance of revenue bonds
                       Approving participation by the city in the Kentucky
90.03-1990 6-11-90     Municipal Risk Management Association (KMRMA) General
                       Insurance Trust (A pooled self-insurance and insurance
                       purchase program)
                       Authorizing a Cooperation Agreement with Jefferson
                       County to exercise the Jefferson County Development Plan
—        7-9-90      and Program for program years 17, 18, and 19, as it
                       relates to the Housing and Community Development Act of
                       1974, as amended
450.3-1994 8-2-94      Authorizing an interlocal agreement for the Jefferson
                       County League of Cities Cable Commission
                      
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS AND DE-ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
              Annexing a certain tract of land beginning at an iron pipe which is North 40°
36-    3-3-75 10 minutes 00 seconds west, 31.19 feet from a point in the south line of
1975          Railroad Avenue at its intersection with the east line of Dr. W.E. Grant’s
              Subdivision
38-    10-6-  Annexing a certain tract of land beginning at the southwesterly corner of the
1975   75     existing corporate limits of the city
              Annexing a certain tract of land beginning at an iron pipe which is north 40°
42-    7-12-  10 minutes 00 seconds west, 31.19 feet from a point in the south line of
1976   76     Railroad Avenue at its intersection with the east line of Dr. W.E. Grant’s
              Subdivision
45-           Annexing a certain tract of land beginning at a point in the northerly right-
1977   2-7-77 of-way line of Shelbyville Road at its intersection with the east line of the
              corporate boundary of the City of Norwood
              Annexing a certain tract of land beginning at a point in the northerly line of
53     7-7-80 LaGrange Road at its intersection with the Easterly line of Washburn Avenue
              and being the west line of existing corporate limits of the city
              Annexing a certain tract of land beginning at an iron pipe which is the
110.3- - -81  northeasterly corner of the existing corporate limits of the city, and is the
1981          intersection of the southeasterly right- of-way line of the Louisville and
              Nashville Railroad and the westerly right-of-way line of Ormsby Lane
110.2-        Annexing a certain tract of land beginning at a point in the Northwesterly
1983   5-3-83 right-of-way line of Whipps Mill Road which is the present corporate limits of
              the city
110.3-        Annexing a certain tract of land beginning at a point in the southerly right-
1983   6-7-83 of-way line of the L & N Railroad which is the northerly boundary line of the
              corporate limits of the city
110.2- 11-13- Annexing a certain tract of land beginning at a point in the northwesterly
1984   84     right-of-way line of Whipps Mill Road, which is the present corporate limits
              of the city
110.1- 3-12-  Annexing a certain tract of land beginning at a point in the southerly line of
1985   85     the L & N Railroad, at its intersection with the easterly right-of-way line of
              Dorsey Lane
110.4- 11-11- Reducing the boundaries of the city by de-annexation of a certain tract
1991   91
10-23- 11-27- Annexing the City of Keeneland
00     00
4-23-  7-23-  Annexing the City of Whipps Millgate.
01B    01
             
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
                        Granting a franchise to CPI of Louisville, Inc. to
51-1979     1-7-80      construct, operate and maintain a Community Antenna
                        Television (CATV) System within the city
450.3-1982  8-2-82      Amending the Community Antenna Television Franchise in
                        Ordinance 51- 1979
                        Creating a franchise for erecting, laying and
                        maintaining electric and gas facilities in the city for
450.1-1985  11-11-85    furnishing and selling electricity and gas by means of
                        said facilities and providing for the sale of said
                        franchise
                        Granting consent and approval to changes in ownership
Res. 1-1988 7-11-88     of the grantee of the cable television franchise for
                        the city
                        Approving and awarding a renewal franchise agreement
450.2-1995  11-20-95    for community antenna television (CATV) services of TCI
                        TKR of Jefferson County, Inc., dba TKR Cable of Greater
                        Louisville
                        Establishing required terms for granting communications
4-25-05     5-25-05     services franchises and establishing compensation for
                        such use of the rights-of-way
5-23-16D    6-27-16     Granting a communications franchise and authorizing
                        execution of a uniform franchise agreement.
                        Repealing and replacing Ord. 9-23-13, Series 2013,
12-16-19    1-27-20     relating to a cable television franchise agreement, and
                        modifying the regulations for treatment of
                        communications service providers.
                       
 
TABLE IV: STREET CLOSINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date     Description
           Passed
17-1967    9-25-67  Closing Lynnhurst Drive
200.1-1983 4-4-83   Closing a portion of a parkway on the plat of Winklers’
                    Subdivision
620.2-1984 8-17-84  Closing that portion of Blue Vale Way, located 530 feet
                    more or less northwest of Fowler Avenue
                    Closing that portion of Fowler Avenue, located on the
620.2-1986 4-15-86  northeast side of Blue Vale Way, at a point which is 730
                    feet more of less northwest of LaGrange Road
620.2-1987 7-15-87  Closing the 12 foot alleyway located 120 feet more or
                    less northeast of Lyndon Lane
                    Closing the portion of the unbuilt Wisteria Avenue
11-9B-87   11-9-87  beginning at a point in the westerly line of Wisteria
                    Avenue, a fifty foot public way dedicated on Plat of
                    Lynnhurst Park
                    Closing the portion of Simmons Lane beginning at the most
11-11A-87  11-10-87 easterly corner of Lot 3 as shown on Minor Subdivision
                    Plat No. 78-83
                    Closing that portion of Railroad Avenue beginning at a
620.2-1988 7-12-88  point in the east line of Washburn Avenue, at the
                    intersection of said east line with the south line of
                    Railroad Avenue
                    Closing the portion of the unbuilt Wisteria Avenue
620.1-1990 5-14-90  beginning at a point in the westerly line of Wisteria
                    Avenue, a 50 foot public way dedicated on Plat of
                    Lynnhurst Park
620.1-1994 8-15-94  Closing an unnamed alley located on the east side of
                    Lyndon Lane
9-15-97A-  10-20-97 Closing an alley beginning on the west side of Warwick
1997-98             Avenue, approximately 115 feet southwest of Lisbon Avenue
5-24-99-   6-29-99  Closing a portion of Morat Avenue
1999
10-25-99A- 11-23-99 Closing Lynnhurst Drive at the end of the made portion
1999
                    Closing a section of original Lyndon Lane from its
12-17-01   1-28-02  southern intersection with New LaGrange Road south a
                    maximum distance of 158 feet
11-28-05   12-19-05 Closing a portion of Railroad Avenue
8-28-06    9-25-06  Closing an unnamed, unimproved alley located on the south
                    side of Railroad Avenue, running a distance of 269 feet
                    Closing a section of an unimproved, unnamed, 15-foot
7-28-08B   8-25-08  alley located at the northeast intersection with Washburn
                    Avenue, 350 feet northerly of New Lagrange Road
1-25-16    2-22-16  Closing a section of Railroad Avenue and an unimproved
                    alley
11-27-17,
Series     12-18-17 Closing Beta Avenue
2017
10-28-19,
Series     11-25-19 Closing Jefferson Terrace
2019
                   
 
TABLE V: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
920.5-1987 4-14-87     Changing the name of Devonia Avenue to Deronia Avenue
9-25-00A   10-23-00    Changing the name of Bouvardia Ave. to Alpha Ave
5-28-02    6-24-02     Changing the name of Primrose Drive to Shreve Drive
                      
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
920.4- 11-11- Rezoning property located at the southwest side of Ormsby Lane from R-
1985   85     4 District to R-5A Residential — Apartment and R-7B Apartment/Office District
920.5- 12-9-  Rezoning property located at 8800 LaGrange Road from R-4 Residential to C- 1
1985   85     Commercial
920.5- 12-9-  Rezoning property located 450 feet more or less southwest of Lyndon Lane from
1985   85     R- 4 Residential to M-1 Industrial
920.5- 1-14-  Rezoning property located at 8709 LaGrange Road from R-4 Residential District
1986   86     to R-7B Apartment/Office District
920.5- 12-9-  Rezoning property located at 8003, 8005, 8007 and 8009 Shelbyville Road from C-
1986   86     1 to C-2 Commercial District
920.5- 4-13-  Rezoning property located at 707 Lyndon Lane from C- 1 Commercial to C-
1987   87     2 Commercial District
920.5- 4-14-  Rezoning property located at 9613 Whipps Mill Road from C-1 Commercial to C-
1987   87     2 Commercial
11-9A- 11-9-  Rezoning property located at 520 Lyndon Lane from R- 5 Residential to C-
87     87     1 Commercial
11-11- 11-10- Rezoning property located at the northeast corner of LaGrange Road and Whipps
87     87     Mill Road from R-4 Residential to C-1 Commercial
920.5- 11-13- Rezoning property at the east side of Roosevelt Avenue, 158 feet more or less
1987   87     northeast of Farnham Road from R-4 Residential to R-5 Residential District
920.5- 3-15-  Rezoning property located on (existing) Whipps Mill Road from R-4 Residential
1988   88     to C-1 Commercial
920.5- 5-10-  Rezoning the following areas:
1988   88
            (1) Property located at 9700 Whipps Mill Road from R-4 Residential Single-
              Family to Pro Planned Research Office
            (2) Property to be added to A.B. Sawyer Park from R-4 Residential Single-
              Family to R-1 Residential Single- Family
920.5- 8-9-88 Rezoning property located at 714 Lyndon Lane from C- 1 Commercial to C-
1988          2 Commercial
89.3-  2-14-  Rezoning property at 7906 LaGrange Road from R-7 Residential Multi-Family to
1989   89     OR- 3 Office Residential
89.6-  4-14-  Rezoning property located at 717 Lyndon Lane from R- 4 Residential Single-
1989   89     Family to C-1 Commercial
920.5- 5-9-89 Rezoning property located at 8125 LaGrange Road from R-4 Residential Single-
1989          Family to C-1 Commercial
920.5- 7-11-  Rezoning property located at 8211 Shelbyville Road from R-5 Residential Single-
1989   89     Family to OR- 1 Office Residential
920.5- 10-10- Rezoning property located on the northwest side of Hurstbourne Parkway, 4,400
1989   89     feet more or less southwest of Dorsey Lane; and north of Shelbyville Road from
              R-1 Residential Single-Family to OR- 3 Office/Residential
920.5- 11-14- Rezoning property at 8002 LaGrange Road from R-7 Residential Multi-Family to
1989   89     OR- 3 Office/Residential
              Rezoning property located on the south side of Whipps Mill Road, 50 feet more
920.5- 12-12- or less west of Cimmaron Trail and 160 feet more or less east of the Meadows
1989   89     Road from R-4 Residential Single- Family and R-6 Residential Multi- Family to
              C-2 Commercial
920.5- 1-9-90 Rezoning property located at 8020 Vinecrest Avenue from R-4 Residential Single-
1990          Family to M-2 Industrial District
920.5- 2-13-  Rezoning property located at 8119 New LaGrange Road (rear) from C-1 Commercial
1990   90     to C-M Commercial Manufacturing
920.5- 11-12- Rezoning property located at 8131 New La Grange from R-4 Residential to C-
1990   90     1 Commercial
920.5- 4-13-  Rezoning property located at 7807 Shelbyville Road from R-4 Residential Single
1992   92     Family and R- 7 Residential Multi-Family to C-1 Commercial
920.5- 5-11-  Rezoning property located at 8311 Shelbyville Road from R-5 Residential Single
1992   92     Family to OR- 1 Office Residential
920.5- 8-10-  Rezoning property located at 8011 La Grange Road from R- 4 Residential Single
1992   92     Family to OR-3 Office Residential
920.5- 4-12-  Rezoning property located at 8307 Shelbyville Road from R-5 Residential Single
1-1993 93     Family to OR- 1 Office Residential
920.5- 4-12-  Rezoning property located at 8303 Shelbyville Road from R-5 Residential Single
2-1993 93     Family to OR- 1 Office Residential
920.5- 6-14-  Rezoning property located at 7907 New La Grange Road from R-4 Residential
3      93     Single Family to R- 5A Multi-Family
920.5- 9-13-  Rezoning property located at 7913 Shelbyville Road from C-1 Commercial to C-
5-1993 93     2 Commercial
920.5- 9-13-  Rezoning property located on the west side of La Grange Road, 300 feet more or
6-1993 93     less northeast of Lyndon Lane and 140 feet more or less southwest of Lisbon
              Lane containing .94 acres from R-5 Residential Single Family to C-1 Commercial
920.1- 5-16-  Rezoning property located at 8221, 8223, and 8225 Shelbyville Road from R-
1994   94     5 Residential Single Family to OR- 1 Office Residential
920.2-        Rezoning property located at the southwest corner of La Grange Road and Dorsey
1994   6-7-94 Lane and the southeast corner of La Grange Road and Whipps Mill Road containing
              6.87 acres from PRO Planned Research Office to C- 2 Commercial
920.3- 8-15-  Rezoning property located at 817 and 821 Lyndon Lane from R-4 and R-
1994   94     5 Residential Single Family to C-N Neighborhood Commercial
920.4- 9-19-  Rezoning property located on the east side of Bouvardia Drive, 300 feet south
1994   94     of Morat Drive, containing 9.74 acres from R-4 Residential Single Family to R-
              5A Residential Multi Family
920.7- 1-17-  Rezoning property located on the southeast corner of Ormsby Lane and new La
1994   95     Grange Road from R-4 Residential Single Family to R-6 Residential Multi Family
920.8- 2-20-  Rezoning property located on the southeast corner of New La Grange Road and
1995   95     Holly Springs Drive containing 5.81 acres from R-4 Residential Single Family to
              R-5 Residential Single Family
920.5- 11-20- Rezoning property located at 9911 La Grange Road from C- 1 Commercial to C-
1995   95     2 Commercial
1-21-
97-    2-18-  Rezoning property located at 8203 Whipps Mill Road from R-4 Residential Single
1996-  97     Family to C-2 Commercial
97
3-17-  4-21-  Rezoning property located at 6-3 Grant Avenue from R-4 Residential Single
97-    97     Family to OR-3 Office Residential
1997
6-16-
97A-   7-21-  Rezoning property located at 8000 New La Grange Road from R-7 Residential Multi
1996-  97     Family to OR-3 Office Residential
97
10-20-        Rezoning property located on New La Grange Road at Willow Springs Drive
97A-   11-17- containing 4.561 acres from R-4 Residential Single Family to R-6 Residential
1997-  97     Multi Family
98
12-15-
97B-   1-20-  Rezoning property located at 812 Lyndon Lane from M-2 Industrial to C-
1997-  98     1 Commercial
98
4-20-
98-    5-18-  Rezoning property located at 1100 Powerhouse Lane from R-4 Single Family
1997-  98     Residential to R-6 Residential Multi Family
98
5-5-          Rezoning property located on the south side of Hurstbourne Parkway and the west
98-    5-18-  side of Dorsey Lane from R-4 Single Family Residential to R-7 Residential Multi
1997-  98     Family and C-1 Commercial
98
6-15-
98A-   7-20-  Rezoning property located at 8217 Shelbyville Road from R-5 Single Family
1997-  98     Residential to OR-1 Office
98
11-16- 11-23- Rezoning property located at 1105 Powerhouse Lane from R-4 Single Family to OR3
98A-   98     Office
1998
7-24-  8-29-  Rezoning property located at 1-5 N. Lyndon Lane from OR-1 to OR-3
00     00
8-28-  9-25-  Rezoning property located at 1107 Powerhouse Lane from R-4 to OR-3
00     00
4-23-  5-21-  Zoning change and variance to permit parking and structures to encroach into
01     01     rear and street side and side yards for 1107, 1109, 1111 and 1114 Powerhouse
              Lane
4-23-  6-25-  Rezoning property located at 10200 Forest Green Blvd. from R-4 and R-7 to OR-
01A    01     3 and C-1, a landscape waiver to omit required perimeter landscaping and a
              variance to allow the building to encroach into the required rear yard
3-25-  4-22-  Rezoning property containing 0.78 acre located at 907 Lyndon Lane from R- 4
02     02     Single Family to OR-3 Office- Residential
8-26-  9-23-  Rezoning property located at 612 Lyndon Land from C-1 Commercial to C-
02     02     2 Commercial
3-22-  4-26-  Rezoning property located at 8215 Shelbyville Road from R-4 Single Family to
04     04     OR-1 Office-Residential
4-2-   5-24-  Rezoning properties at 1201-1211 Etawah Avenue from R-5 Residential to R-5A
04B    04     Residential
5-24-  6-28-  Rezoning property located at 8219 Shelbyville Road from R-5 Single Family to
04     04     OR-1 Office Residential
5-23-  6-27-  Rezoning property located at 503 Washburn Avenue from R-5 to OR-1
05     05
9-26-  10-24- Rezoning property located at 723 Lyndon Land from R-4 to C-2
05A    05
4-23-  5-21-  Rezoning property located at 9705 LaGrange Road from C-1 to C-2
07     07
4-23-  5-21-  Rezoning property located at 8213 Shelbyville Road from R-5 Single Family to
07A    07     OR-1 Office Residential
2-25-  3-24-  Rezoning property located at 1105 Dorsey Lane from R-4 to C-1
08     08
3-24-  4-28-  Rezoning property located at 8000, 8021, 8045-8065 (not including 8050-8054)
08     08     Warwick Avenue from M-1 Industrial to C-M Commercial Manufacturing
3-24-  4-28-  Rezoning property located at 407 Washburn Avenue from R-5 Single Family
08A    08     Residential to R-5A Multi-Family Residential
4-28-  5-19-  Rezoning property located at 1219 Dorsey Lane from R- 4 Single Family
08     08     Residential to C-1 Commercial
8-25-  9-15-  Rezoning properties located at 10405 Morat Ave., 1203-1215 and 1225 Dorsey Lane
08     08     and 1704 Alpha Ave. from R-4 to C-1 and OR-3, and CUP
11-24- 12-15- Amending Ord. 8-25-08, passed 9-15-08, to include separate legal descriptions
08     08     (Exhibit One) for the proposed C-1 zoning area and the proposed OR-3 zoning
              area
              Rezoning property commonly known as Oxmoor Toyota from C-1 to C-2; approving
6-22-  7-27-  the Revised District Development Plan; deleting Binding Element 12, as Binding
09A    09     Element 12 related to a Conditional Use Permit application which is no longer a
              part of this request
8-22-  9-26-  Rezoning property located at 8015 Catherine Lane from R-4 to C-2
11     11
9-26-  10-24- Rezoning property located at 8117 and 8119 New LaGrange Road from C-1 to C-M
11     11
1-28-  2-25-  Rezoning property located at 8403 - 8405 Shelbyville Road from R-5 to OR
13     13
6-24-  7-22-  Rezoning property located on Oxmoor Toyota property, known as tax block 0021,
13     13     lot 0594, from R-5A to C-2
1-25-  2-22-  Rezoning property located at 8120 Railroad Avenue, from R-4 to C-2
16     16
5-23-  6-27-  Rezoning property located at 504-516 Lyndon Lane from R-5 to O-R
16     16
10-24- 11-28- Rezoning property located at 8050 and 8054 Warwick Avenue from C-1 to M-1
16     16
12-19- 1-23-  Rezoning property located at 1025 Dorsey Lane from R-4 to OR-3
16     17
6-26-  7-24-  Rezoning property located at 911-913 Ormsby Lane from R-4 to R-6
17     17
10-23- 11-27- Rezoning property located at 1701 Alpha Avenue from R-4 to R-6
27     17
6-24-  7-22-  Rezoning property located at 1025 Dorsey Lane from OR-3 to C-2
19     19
8-26-  9-23-  Rezoning property located at 10330 Morat Avenue from C-1 to C-2
19     19
11-25- 12-16- Rezoning property located at 413R, 415R and 417 Washburn Ave. from R-5 to R-5A
19     19
7-26-  8-23-  Rezoning property located at 907 Ormsby Lane from R-4 to R-6
21     21
12-20- 1-24-  Rezoning property located at 8131 New LaGrange Road from C-1 to C-2
21A    22
4-24-  5-22-  Rezoning property located at 8100 Lyndon Park Lane from C-N to C-2
23B    23
11-27- 12-18- Rezoning property located at 106 Lyndon Lane from R-5 to OR-1
23     23
             
 
TABLE VII: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the issuance of Educational Development
5-22-00  6-26-00     Revenue Bonds, Series 2000 (St. Margaret Mary Catholic
                     Community Project)
                     Authorizing the issuance of Industrial Building Revenue
11-18-13 12-25-13    Bonds, Series 2013, (Goodwill Industries of Kentucky Inc.
                     project) in the principal amount of not more than
                     $36,000,000.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1991 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section                      Code Section
6.050                            32.48
6.955 to 6.975                   33.04
Ch. 13A                          93.02
Ch. 13B                          93.06
15.520                           36.04
15.409                           34.16
18A.225                          112.04
Ch. 31                        34.16
41.240                           33.59
41.240(4)                        33.05
42.450 - 42.495                  33.04
Ch. 45A                          34.16
Ch. 56                        34.16
Ch. 61                           32.21
61.169                           34.16
61.823 (2) - (4)                 91.15
61.825                           32.21
61.870                           34.01
61.870 - 61.882                  31.36
61.870 - 61.884                  34.17,
                                 Ch. 40, App. § XV
61.872(4)                        34.06
61.872(5)                        34.07
61.872(6)                        34.08,
                                 34.15
61.874(1)-(3)                    34.12
61.874(3),(4)                    34.13
61.874(5)                        34.14
61.878                           34.01,
                                 34.16
61.878(1)                        34.16
61.880                           34.09
61.884                           34.11
62.060                           31.04
Ch. 64                           31.56
65.067                           31.04
65.120                           Ch. 72
65.8801 - 65.8839                40.02
65.8805                          92.08
65.8815(5)                       40.04,
                                 Ch. 40, App. § XV
65.8840                          92.04 ,
                                 97.99
66.480                           33.55,
                                 33.59
66.480(1)(a), (b), (c), (h), (i) 33.60
66.480(1)(a)                     33.59
66.480(1)(b)                     33.59
66.480(1)(c)                     33.59
66.480(1)(d)                     33.59
66.480(1)(e)                     33.59
66.480(1)(f)                     33.59
66.480(1)(g)                     33.59
66.480(1)(h)                     33.59
66.480(1)(i)                     33.59
66.480(1)(j)                     33.59
66.480(1)(k)                     33.59
66.480(1)(l)                     33.59
66.480(2)                        33.59
66.480(2)(a)                     33.60
66.480(2)(b)                     33.60
66.480(2)(d)(1)-(4)              33.60
67.720 - 67.795                  110.35
67.753                           110.25
Ch. 78                           31.60
78.510(21)                       37.02
Ch. 83A                          31.20,
                                 31.60
83A.010(5)                       10.02
83A.010(6)                       10.02
83A.010(8)                       10.02
83A.030(1)                       30.02
83A.040(1),(2),( 6)              31.21
83A.040(2)(c)                    31.21
83A.040(2)(d)                    31.21
83A.040(3)                       31.21
83A.040(4)                       32.01
83A.040(5)                       32.02
83A.040(6)                       32.02
83A.040(7)                       31.21,
                                 32.02
83A.040(8)                       31.21,
                                 32.02
83A.040(9)                       31.03
83A.050                          31.20
83A.060(1)                       32.35
83A.060(2)                       32.36
83A.060(3)                       32.37
83A.060(4),(7)                   32.38
83A.060(5)                       32.40
83A.060(6)                       32.22
83A.060(8)                       32.41,
                                 32.42
83A.060(9)                       32.43
83A.060(10)                      32.44
83A.060(11)                      32.45
83A.060(12),(13 )                32.46
83A.060(14)                      32.47
83A.060(15)                      32.48
83A.065                          72.53
83A.070                          31.02
83A.075                          31.02
83A.080                          31.37
83A.080(1),(2)                   31.35
83A.085                          31.36
83A.130                          31.21
83A.130(1)                       30.01
83A.130(2)                       30.02
83A.130(3)                       31.21
83A.130(4)                       31.21
83A.130(5)                       32.20
83A.130(6)                       32.39
83A.130(7)                       31.21
83A.130(8)                       31.21
83A.130(9)                       31.21
83A.130(10)                      31.21
83A.130(11)                      32.03,
                                 32.21
83A.130(12)                      32.03
83A.130(13)                      32.03
83A.175                          32.02
91A.010                          33.01
91A.010(8)                       10.02
91A.020                          33.02
91A.030                          33.03
91A.040                          33.04
91A.050                          33.04
91A.060                          33.05 ,
                                 33.55
91A.080                          112.08,
                                 112.99
91A.080(12)                      112.01
91A.200                          33.21
91A.210                          33.20
91A.220                          33.21
91A.230                          33.22
91A.240                          33.23
91A.250                          33.24
91A.260                          33.25
91A.270                          33.26
91A.280                          33.27
91A.290                          33.28
92.330                           35.07,
                                 110.31
95.019                           36.01
100.413                          152.45
100.415                          152.46
Ch. 107                          33.21
Chs. 116 - 121                   31.20
131.010(6)                       112.05
131.190                          34.16
132.285                          35.01
134.800                          35.04
134.810                          35.04
Ch. 136                          35.07
136.575                          35.07
Ch. 154                          34.16
174.100                          91.15
174.100(1)                       91.16
174.100(2)                       91.17
174.100(3)                       91.18
174.100(4)                       91.19
174.100(5)                       91.20
178.290                          91.06
186A.145                         72.27
186A.190                         72.27
189.020                          71.27
189.285                          73.02
189.287                          73.01
189.290                          71.25
189.330(8)                       71.02
189.338                          70.15
189.394                          71.99
189.450(5),(6)                   72.03
189.580                          71.15
189.635(8)(b)1.a. - e.           34.01
189.725                          72.09
189.920(3)                       36.01
189.930                          71.26
189.990(1)                       72.99
189.990(2)(a)                    71.99
189.993(8)                       71.99
Ch. 198B                         150.02
198B.070                         150.02
198B.990(1)                      150.99
218A.010 - 218A.1444             92.08
222.202                          92.08
227.700 - 227.750                93.06
227.700                          93.01
227.702                          93.01
227.704                          93.01
227.706                          93.01
227.708                          93.01
227.710                          93.02
227.715                          93.03
227.715(6)-(8)                   93.03
227.720                          93.04
227.730                          93.05
227.750                          93.06
227.990(4)                       93.99
237.110                          95.17
Chs. 241 - 244                   113.02
241.190                          31.36
243.070                          113.13
257.100                          90.06
257.100(4)                       90.01
Ch. 281                          72.26
281.920 - 281.936                72.27
281.923                          72.27
281.926                          72.27
281.928                          72.27
281.928(1)                       72.27
281.932                          72.27
Ch. 304                          112.99
Ch. 304, Subtitle 17B            112.04
318.990                          150.99
Ch. 337                          31.60
Ch. 342                          112.04
359.230                          72.27
376.275                          72.27
376.275(1)                       72.27
376.275(2)                       72.27
403.763                          92.08
411.500 - 411.570                Ch. 92
                                 33.04,
Ch. 424                          33.24,
                                 33.25
424.220                          33.04
431.005                          31.40
431.015                          31.40
436.600                          90.04,
                                 90.99
446.010(1)                       10.02
446.010(2)                       10.02
446.010(9)                       10.02
446.010(10)                      10.02
446.010(11)                      10.02
446.010(12)                      10.02
446.010(13)                      10.02
446.010(15)                      10.02
446.010(17)                      10.02
446.010(18)                      10.02
446.010(23)                      10.02
446.010(25)                      10.02
446.010(26)                      10.02
446.010(27)                      10.02
446.010(28)                      10.02
446.010(30)                      10.02
446.010(31)                      10.02
446.010(33)                      10.02
446.010(37)                      10.02
446.010(39)                      10.02
446.010(43)                      10.02
446.010(46)                      10.02
446.010(47)                      10.02
446.010(49)                      10.02
446.010(55)                      10.02
446.020(1)                       10.03
446.020(2)                       10.03
446.030                          10.04
446.050                          10.05
446.060                          10.06
446.080(1)                       10.03
446.080(3)                       10.03
446.080(4)                       10.03
446.090                          10.07
446.100                          10.08
446.110                          10.09
446.140                          10.01
507.020 - 507.050                92.08
508.010 - 508.160                92.08
510.010 - 510.155                92.08
511.010 - 511.090                92.08
512.010 - 512.060                92.08
513.010 - 513.040                92.08
514.010 - 514.090                92.08
514.110                          92.08
515.010 - 515.030                92.08
525.055                          92.08
525.060                          92.08
525.070 - 525.080                92.08
525.100                          92.08
525.125                          90.03
525.130                          90.03,
                                 90.99
527.010 - 527.210                92.08
529.010 - 529.110                92.08
530.060 - 530.080                92.08
531.010 - 531.110                92.08
531.300 - 531.370                92.08
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO 1991 CODE
1991 Code Section 2001 Code Section
1991 Code Section 2001 Code Section
10.01             10.01
10.02             10.02
10.03             10.03
10.04             10.04
10.05             10.05
10.06             10.06
10.07             10.07
10.08             10.08
10.09             10.09
10.10             10.10
10.11             10.11
10.12             10.12
10.13             10.13
10.14             10.14
10.15             10.15
10.16             10.16
10.17             10.17
11.01             11.01
30.01             30.01
30.02             30.02
31.01             31.01,
                  31.04
31.02             31.02
31.03             31.03
31.20             31.20
31.21             31.21
31.23             31.23
31.35             31.35
31.36             31.36
31.37             31.37
31.38             31.38
31.39             31.39
32.01             32.01
32.02             32.02
32.03             32.03
32.20             32.20
32.21             32.21
32.22             32.22
32.35             32.35
32.36             32.36
32.37             32.37
32.38             32.38
32.39             32.39
32.40             32.40
32.41             32.41
32.42             32.42
32.43             32.43
32.44             32.44
32.45             32.45
32.46             32.46
32.47             32.47
32.48             32.48
33.01             33.01
33.02             33.02
33.03             33.03
33.04             33.04
33.05             33.05
33.06             33.06
33.10             33.20
33.11             33.21
33.12             33.22
33.13             33.23
33.14             33.24
33.15             33.25
33.16             33.26
33.17             33.27
33.18             33.28
34.01             34.01
34.05             34.05
34.06             34.06
34.07             34.07
34.08             34.08
34.09             34.09
34.10             34.10
34.11             34.11
34.12             34.16
35.01             35.01
35.02             35.02
35.03             35.03
35.04             35.04
35.05             35.05
37.01             37.03
37.02             37.03
37.03             37.03
37.04             37.03
37.05             37.03
37.06             37.03
50.01             50.01
50.02             50.02
50.03             50.03
70.01             70.01
70.02             70.02
70.03             70.03
70.04             70.04
70.05             70.05
70.15             70.15
70.16             70.16
70.17             70.17
70.18             70.18
70.19             70.19
70.20             70.20
70.21             70.21
70.22             70.22
70.99             70.99
71.01             71.01
71.02             71.02
71.03             71.03
71.04             71.04
71.05             71.05
71.06             71.06
71.07             71.07
71.15             71.15
71.16             71.16
71.25             71.25
71.26             71.26
71.27             71.27
71.28             71.28
71.29             71.29
71.40             71.40
71.41             71.41
71.42             71.42
71.43             71.43
71.44             71.44
71.45             71.45
71.46             71.46
71.47             71.47
71.48             71.48
71.49             71.49
71.50             71.50
71.51             71.50
71.60             71.60
71.61             71.60
71.62             71.62
71.63             71.63
71.99             71.99
72.01             72.01
72.02             72.02
72.03             72.03
72.04             72.04
72.05             72.05
72.06             72.06
72.07             72.08
72.08             72.09
72.09             72.10
72.10             72.11
72.11             72.12
72.12             72.13
72.13             72.14
72.14             72.15
72.20             72.25
72.22             72.27
72.35             72.40
72.36             72.41
72.37             72.42
72.99             72.99
73.01             73.01
73.02             73.02
73.03             73.03
73.04             73.04
73.99             73.99
90.01             90.01
90.02             90.02
90.03             90.03
90.04             90.04
90.05             90.05
90.06             90.06
90.07             90.07
90.15             90.15
90.16             90.16
90.17             90.17
90.18             90.18
90.19             90.19
90.20             90.20
90.21             90.21
90.22             90.22
90.99             90.99
91.01             91.01
91.02             91.02
91.03             91.03
91.04             91.04
91.05             91.05
91.06             91.06
91.15             91.15
91.16             91.16
91.17             91.17
91.18             91.18
91.19             91.19
91.20             91.20
91.30             91.30
91.31             91.31
91.32             91.32
91.33             91.33
91.34             91.34
91.99             91.99
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.02
92.03             92.03
92.04             92.04
92.05             92.05
92.06             92.06
92.99             92.99
93.01             93.01
93.02             93.02
93.03             93.04
93.04             93.05
93.05             93.06
93.20             93.20
93.21             93.21
93.99             93.99
94.01             94.01
94.02             94.02
94.03             94.03
94.04             94.04
94.05             94.05
94.06             94.06
94.07             94.07
94.08             94.08
94.09             94.09
94.10             94.10
94.11             94.11
94.12             94.12
94.13             94.13
94.14             94.14
94.15             94.15
94.16             94.16
94.99             94.16
110.01            110.01
110.02            110.02
110.03            110.03
110.04            110.04
110.05            110.05
110.06            110.06
110.07            110.07
110.08            110.08
110.09            110.09
111.01            111.01
111.02            111.02
111.03            111.03
111.04            111.04
111.05            111.05
111.06            111.06
111.07            111.07
111.08            111.08
111.99            111.99
113.01            113.01
113.10            113.10
113.11            113.11
113.12            113.12
113.25            113.25
113.26            113.26
113.99            113.99
150.01            150.01
150.02            150.02
150.15            150.15
150.16            150.16
152.01            152.01
152.15            152.15
152.16            152.16
152.17            152.17
152.18            152.18
152.19            152.19
152.20            152.20
152.21            152.21
152.22            152.22
152.23            152.23
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.              Date Passed Code Section
5-1965                7-6-65      36.15
                                  71.01,
                                  71.05 -
8-1965                10-26-65    71.07,
                                  71.28,
                                  71.29,
                                  71.63
9-1965                10-26-65    91.34
6-1965                11-23-65    90.19
17-1967               9-25-67     T.S.O. IV
26-1971               - -71       90.07
36-1975               3-3-75      T.S.O. II
38-1975               10-6-75     T.S.O. II
42-1976               7-12-76     T.S.O. II
45-1977               2-7-77      T.S.O. II
51-1979               1-7-80      T.S.O. III
53                    7-7-80      T.S.O. II
110.3-1981            - -81       T.S.O. II
450.3-1982            8-2-82      T.S.O. III
                                  113.01,
                                  113.10,
410.2-1982            8-10-82     113.11,
                                  113.25,
                                  113.26
920.11-1982           9-14-82     152.15 -
                                  152.23
950.4-1982            9-14-82     31.37
200.1-1983            4-4-83      T.S.O. IV
110.2-1983            5-3-83      T.S.O. II
110.3-1983            6-7-83      T.S.O. II
220.3-1983            7-6-83      33.03
410.2-1984            1-10-84     113.12,
                                  113.99
620.2-1984            8-17-84     T.S.O. IV
110.2-1984            11-13-84    T.S.O. II
110.1-1985            3-12-85     T.S.O. II
920.3-1985            9-9-85      152.02
930.1-1985            9-9-85      152.01
450.1-1985            11-11-85    T.S.O. III
920.4-1985            11-11-85    T.S.O. VI
1000.1-1985           11-11-85    94.01 -
                                  94.16
920.5-1985            12-9-85     T.S.O. VI
920.5-1986            1-14-86     T.S.O. VI
820.1-1986            3-11-86     31.23
620.2-1986            4-15-86     T.S.O. IV
920.5-1986            12-9-86     T.S.O. VI
610.0-1987            1-13-87     T.S.O. I
920.5-1987            4-13-87     T.S.O. V,
                                  VI
200.0-1987            5-26-87     T.S.O. I
620.2-1987            7-15-87     T.S.O. IV
11-9A-87              11-9-87     T.S.O. VI
11-9B-87              11-9-87     T.S.O. IV
11-11-87              11-10-87    T.S.O. VI
11-11A-87             11-10-87    T.S.O. IV
920.5-1987            11-13-87    T.S.O. VI
930.1-1988            2-8-88      152.03
920.5-1988            3-15-88     T.S.O. VI
920.5-1988            5-10-88     T.S.O. VI
Res. 1-1988           7-11-88     T.S.O. III
620.2-1988            7-12-88     T.S.O. IV
920.5-1988            8-9-88      T.S.O. VI
89.3-1989             2-14-89     T.S.O. VI
89.5-1989             4-14-89     152.03
89.6-1989             4-14-89     T.S.O. VI
920.5-1989            5-9-89      T.S.O. VI
920.5-1989            7-11-89     T.S.O. VI
920.5-1989            10-10-89    T.S.O. VI
920.5-1989            11-14-89    T.S.O. VI
920.5-1989            12-12-89    T.S.O. VI
920.5-1990            1-9-90      T.S.O. VI
920.5-1990            2-13-90     T.S.O. VI
90.02-1990            3-26-90     T.S.O. I
620.1-1990            5-14-90     T.S.O. IV
90.03-1990            6-11-90     T.S.O. I
–                   7-9-90      T.S.O. I
240.30-1990           10-8-90     37.01
920.5-1990            11-12-90    T.S.O. VI
110.4-1991            11-11-91    T.S.O. II
830.2-1991            12-9-91     50.04,
                                  50.99
20.0-1991             1-13-92     152.03
920.5-1992            4-13-92     T.S.O. VI
920.5-1992            5-11-92     T.S.O. VI
920.5-1992            8-10-92     T.S.O. VI
920.5-1-1993          4-12-93     T.S.O. VI
920.5-3               6-14-93     T.S.O. VI
920.5-5-1993          9-13-93     T.S.O. VI
920.5-6-1993          9-13-93     T.S.O. VI
                                  95.01 -
                                  95.04,
95.01-1993            10-11-93    95.15 -
                                  95.26,
                                  95.99
150.17-1993           10-11-93    91.01,
                                  Ch. 91, Appendix
120.1 App. A-2-1994   2-14-94     32.21
310.0-1994            2-14-94     150.03
930.1-1994            3-1-94      152.03
730.01-1994           4-5-94      39.01,
                                  Ch. 39, Appendix
240.30 App. A-1-1994  5-16-94     37.01
920.1-1994            5-16-94     T.S.O. VI
310.01-1994           6-7-94      150.99
920.2-1994            6-7-94      T.S.O. VI
130.6-1994            7-18-94     31.40
450.3-1994            8-2-94      T.S.O. I
620.1-1994            8-15-94     T.S.O. IV
920.3-1994            8-15-94     T.S.O. VI
920.4-1994            9-19-94     T.S.O. VI
90.04 App. A-2-1994   10-17-94    32.21
120.1 App. A-3-1994   10-17-94    32.21
220.5-1994            10-17-94    35.06
120.1 App. A-4-1994   12-19-94    32.21
200.1-1994            12-19-94    38.01 -
                                  38.04
920.12-1994           1-17-95     150.30,
                                  150.99
920.7-1994            1-17-95     T.S.O. VI
920.8-1995            2-20-95     T.S.O. VI
450.2-1995            11-20-95    T.S.O. III
920.5-1995            11-20-95    T.S.O. VI
1-21-97-1996-97       2-18-97     T.S.O. VI
3-17-97-1997          4-21-97     T.S.O. VI
3-17-97A-1996-97      4-21-97     72.07
4-21-97-1996-97       5-19-97     152.02
5-19-97-1997          6-16-97     152.03
6-16-97A-1996-97      7-21-97     T.S.O. VI
                                  40.01 -
6-16-97-1996-97       7-21-97     40.12, Ch. 40, Appendix §§
                                  I -
                                  XV
9-15-97A-1997-98      10-20-97    T.S.O. IV
9-15-97B-1997-98      10-20-97    92.01 -
                                  92.03
                                  114.01,
9-15-97C-1997-98      11-17-97    114.02,
                                  114.99
10-20-97A-1997-98     11-17-97    T.S.O. VI
10-20-97-1997-98      11-17-97    110.02 -
                                  110.04
11-17-97-1997-98      12-15-97    152.03
12-15-97B-1997-98     1-20-98     T.S.O. VI
1-20-98-1997-98       2-16-98     113.02,
                                  113.99
4-20-98-1997-98       5-18-98     T.S.O. VI
5-5-98-1997-98        5-18-98     T.S.O. VI
5-18-98A-1998         6-15-98     37.02
6-15-98A-1997-98      7-20-98     T.S.O. VI
6-15-98-1998          7-20-98     32.21
7-20-98-1998          8-17-98     37.02
11-16-98A-1998        11-23-98    T.S.O. VI
12-21-98A-1998-99     1-19-99     32.21
12-21-98B-1998-99     1-19-99     32.21
3-22-99-1999          4-26-99     150.30,
                                  150.99
4-26-99-1999          5-24-99     35.05
5-24-99-1999          6-29-99     T.S.O. IV
10-25-99A-1999        11-23-99    T.S.O. IV
10-25-99-1999         11-23-99    31.35,
                                  31.36
1-24-00               2-27-00     152.02
                                  96.01 -
1-24-2000A            2-28-00     96.10,
                                  96.99
3-27-00A              4-24-00     91.07
                                  96.01 -
3-27-00B              4-24-00     96.10,
                                  96.99
4-24-00A              5-22-00     113.03
5-15-00               5-22-00     35.01 -
                                  35.03
5-22-00               6-26-00     T.S.O. VII
6-26-00A              7-24-00     152.03
7-24-00               8-29-00     T.S.O. VI
8-28-00               9-25-00     T.S.O. VI
9-25-00A              10-23-00    T.S.O. V
                                  152.40 -
9-25-00               10-23-00    152.47,
                                  152.99
10-23-00              11-27-00    T.S.O. II
2-26-01               3-26-01     113.02
2-26-01A              3-26-01     91.01,
                                  91.99
4-23-01               6-25-01     T.S.O. VI
4-23-01A              5-21-01     T.S.O. VI
4-23-01B              7-23-01     T.S.O. II
4-23-01C              5-22-01     Adopting Ordinance
12-17-01              1-28-02     T.S.O. IV
2-25-02               3-25-02     50.05,
                                  50.99
2-25-02A              3-25-02     95.23
3-25-02               4-22-02     T.S.O. VI
5-28-02               6-24-02     T.S.O. V
6-24-02               7-22-02     Adopting Ordinance
8-26-02               9-23-02     T.S.O. VI
9-23-02               1-27-03     152.03
7-28-03               8-25-03     152.03
7-28-03A              8-25-03     Adopting Ordinance
3-22-04               4-26-04     T.S.O. VI
                                  72.50 -
3-22-04A              4-26-04     72.53,
                                  72.99
4-26-04B              5-24-04     T.S.O. VI
4-26-04C              5-24-04     152.03
4-26-04D              5-24-04     152.03
5-24-04               6-28-04     T.S.O. VI
6-28-04               7-26-04     152.03
6-28-04A              7-26-04     152.03
6-28-04B              7-26-04     91.35,
                                  91.99
9-27-04               10-25-04    32.21
9-27-04A              10-25-04    32.21
11-22-04              12-20-04    Adopting Ordinance
4-25-05               5-25-05     T.S.O. III
5-23-05               6-27-05     T.S.O. VI
8-22-05               9-26-05     113.01
9-26-05               10-24-05    Adopting Ordinance
9-26-05A              10-24-05    T.S.O. VI
11-28-05              12-19-05    T.S.O. IV
3-27-06A              5-22-06     70.35 -
                                  70.38
8-28-06               9-25-06     T.S.O. IV
9-25-06               10-23-06    Adopting Ordinance
9-25-06A              10-23-06    113.01
3-26-07               4-23-07     152.03
4-23-07               5-21-07     T.S.O. VI
4-23-07A              5-21-07     T.S.O. VI
6-25-07               7-23-07     92.07,
                                  92.99
2-25-08               3-24-08     T.S.O. VI
3-24-08               4-28-08     T.S.O. VI
3-24-08A              4-28-08     T.S.O. VI
4-28-08               5-19-08     T.S.O. VI
4-28-08C              5-19-08     110.01
7-28-08               8-25-08     37.01
7-28-08B              8-25-08     T.S.O. IV
8-25-08               9-15-08     T.S.O. VI
10-27-08              11-24-08    Adopting Ordinance
11-24-08              12-15-08    T.S.O. VI
6-22-09               7-27-09     152.03
6-22-09A              7-27-09     T.S.O. VI
7-27-09               9-28-09     152.03
6-28-10               7-26-10     113.01
6-28-10B              7-26-10     152.03
10-25-10              11-22-10    152.03
1-24-11A              2-28-11     152.03
8-22-11               9-26-11     T.S.O. VI
9-26-11               10-24-11    T.S.O. VI
9-26-11A              10-24-11    150.03
2-27-12               3-26-12     33.40 -
                                  33.42
9-24-12               10-22-12    Adopting Ordinance
1-28-13               2-25-13     T.S.O. VI
1-28-13A              2-25-13     33.06
2-25-13               3-25-13     111.04
3-25-13               4-22-13     150.03
6-24-13               7-22-13     T.S.O. VI
                                  70.36,
8-26-13               8-26-13     70.37,
                                  70.39
10-28-13              11-24-13    113.13
11-18-13              11-25-13    T.S.O. VII
1-27-14               2-24-14     113.13
3-24-14               4-28-14     38.05,
                                  38.99
11-24-14              12-15-14    92.08,
                                  92.99
                                  150.45 -
11-24-14A             12-15-14    150.53,
                                  150.99
11-24-14B             12-15-14    31.55 -
                                  31.60
7-27-15               8-24-15     32.21
1-25-16               2-22-16     T.S.O. IV,
                                  T.S.O. VI
5-23-16               6-27-16     T.S.O. VI
5-23-16D              6-27-16     T.S.O. III
10-24-16              11-28-16    T.S.O. VI
12-19-16              1-23-17     T.S.O. VI
6-26-17               7-24-17     T.S.O. VI
10-23-27              11-27-17    T.S.O. VI
11-27-17, Series 2017 12-18-17    T.S.O. IV
4-23-18A              5-21-18     50.06,
                                  50.99
                                  112.01 -
2-18-19, Series 2019  2-25-19     112.08,
                                  112.99
6-24-19               7-22-19     T.S.O. VI
8-26-19               9-23-19     T.S.O. VI
8-26-19A              9-23-19     33.55 -
                                  33.65
10-28-19, Series 2019 11-25-19    T.S.O. IV
11-25-19              12-16-19    T.S.O. VI
12-16-19              1-27-20     T.S.O. III
                                  97.01 -
2-24-20               3-23-20     97.07,
                                  97.99
7-26-21               8-23-21     T.S.O. VI
12-20-21A             1-24-22     T.S.O. VI
2-28-22A, Series 2022 3-21-22     112.01
3-28-22, Series 2022  4-25-22     35.07
3-28-22B, Series 2022 4-25-22     110.01
6-27-22A, Series 2022 7-25-22     36.01 -
                                  36.05
10-24-22, Series 2022 11-28-22    36.01
4-24-23B              5-22-23     T.S.O. VI
                                  110.20 -
7-24-23               8-28-23     110.35,
                                  110.99
11-27-23              12-18-23    T.S.O. VI
3-25-24A              4-22-24     110.23,
                                  110.99
8-26-24               9-23-24     152.03
10-28-24              11-25-24    110.24
                                 
 
