CITY OF MCKEE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 01-2024, passed 3-18-2024
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 03-23
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF
   MCKEE, KY, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING
   CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF MCKEE
   DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES AND
   DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of McKee are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Kentucky empower and
authorize the City of McKee to revise, amend, restate, codify, and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the City of McKee has authorized a
general compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of the City
of McKee of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in
book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance takes
effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
MCKEE, KY
Section 1. The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of McKee, KY.”
Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
   MCKEE, KENTUCKY TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
10. Rules of Construction; General Penalty
11. City Standards
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
30. Mayor-Council
31. City Officials
32. City Council
33. Finance and Revenue
34. Public Records
35. Organizations
36. Taxation
37. Personnel Policies
38. Administrative Policies
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
50. Utility Administration
51. Water and Sewer
52. Sewer Use
53. Water Shortages
54. Garbage
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
70. General Provisions
71. Traffic Rules
72. Parking Regulations
73. Recreational Vehicles
74. Traffic Schedules
75. Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
90. Animals
91. Streets and Sidewalks
92. Nuisances
93. Fireworks; Fire Prevention
94. Littering
95. Fair Housing
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
110. Occupational Licensing
111. Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants, and Solicitors
112. Pawnbrokers
113. Insurance Companies
114. Places of Entertainment
115. Alcoholic Beverages
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
130. Offenses Against Municipal Regulations
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
150. Building Regulations
151. Planning
152. Flood Damage Prevention
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
I. Agreements
II. Annexations
III. Condemnations
IV. Dedications
V. Easements
VI. Franchises
VII. Real Estate Transactions
VIII. Vacations
IX. Street Name Changes
X. Temporary Emergency Declarations
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes References to Ordinances References to
Resolutions
References to Orders and Miscellaneous
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
FIRST READING: 6-19-2023
SECOND READING: 7-17-2023
   City of McKee, KY
   ATTEST:
    /s/ Marla Fields
   Marla Fields, City Clerk
APPROVED BY:
/s/ J. Michael Stidham
J. Michael Stidham, Mayor
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
McKee Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of McKee,
irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city’s legislative body; the City Council of McKee, Kentucky.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Jackson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to corporations, means all those incorporated or
formed by authority of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to corporations, includes all those incorporated or
formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KAR. Kentucky Administrative Regulations.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of McKee, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority
to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships,
registered limited liability partnerships, joint stock companies, and limited
liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE.
      (1)   Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of office without
a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed to an office
fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no election to fill
the office at the time appointed by law; and
      (2)   Applies whether the VACANCY is occasioned by death, resignation,
removal from the state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes “failure to comply with.”
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing, as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of the
City Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   (1)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act
to be done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the
day on which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in
computing the time.
      (2)   If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is
required to be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on
which the public office in which the act is required to be completed is
actually and legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none
of the days just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may, by law, as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto, it
shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the end
or close of the writing. Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in
the English language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of the City Council in enacting
any ordinance that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional, the
remaining parts shall remain in force; unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected
with, and dependent upon, the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that
the City Council would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part; or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of the
City Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of the City Council. A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective
date is revived by the enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed
it at the same, or any subsequent meeting of the City Council, as long as it
takes effect prior to the effective date of the original repealer.
   (B)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
the City Council which enacted the amendment.
   (C)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same, or at a subsequent meeting of the City Council, as long
as the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (D)   No other action of the City Council repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to
any offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings.
   (B)   If any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any
provision of the new ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party
affected, be applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification, and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   Any chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances
may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages.
   (C)   Subsequent ordinances as printed or omitted shall be prima facie
evidence of such subsequent ordinances until City Council shall adopt a new
code of ordinances.
   (D)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be so construed as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
      or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
Wards and Boundaries
   
11.01   Streets and roads within corporate boundaries
   
11.02   Streets and roads outside of corporate boundaries
WARDS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 11.01 STREETS AND ROADS WITHIN CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The City Council agrees the streets and roads in division (B) below
are part of the city road system, and are adopted by meeting one or more of the
following guidelines:
      (1)   Must directly service a commercial business, but does not include
areas for parking;
      (2)   Must provide thru access to another area; and
      (3)   Must service five or more residents
   (B)   The City Council agrees that the roads listed below are part of the
city road system.
Route Road Name Length (MI)
Route   Road Name           Length (MI)
CS-1002 Old County Road     0.821
CS-1003 CCC Bottom Road     0.23
CS-1004 Ridgeway West       0.147
CS-1005 Yellow Dog Road     0.195
CS-1008 First Street        0.186
CS-1010 Indian Springs Lane 0.151
CS-1014 Lakewood Drive      0.101
CS-1015 McCammon Ridge Road 2.072
CS-1018 Ridgeway East       0.18
CS-1022 Third Street        0.043
CS-1024 High Street         0.489
CS-1026 Water Street West   0.165
 
(Ord. 01-2022, passed 1-31-2022; Ord. 04-2022, passed 6-20-2022; Res. passed 2-
23-2023)
§ 11.02 STREETS AND ROADS OUTSIDE OF CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The City Council agrees that the roads listed below are not part of the city
road system.
Route Road Name Length (MI)
Route   Road Name                       Length (MI)
CS-1001 Fox Hollow Road                 0.337
CS-1006 Water Street East               0.074
CS-1007 Pine Street                     0.16
CS-1009 Gods Little Acre                0.059
CS-1011 Jackson Valley Road             0.159
CS-1012 Pleasant Valley Road            0.364
CS-1013 McKee Manor Drive               0.058
CS-1017 Old School Road                 0.128
CS-1019 Roberts Court                   0.183
CS-1020 Tattlers Hollow Road            0.218
CS-1021 Tattlers Hollow Road Spur Route 0.01
CS-1023 Tobacco Road                    0.26
 
(Res. passed 2-23-2023)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
38.   ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the Mayor-
Council Plan, and this chapter, together with KRS 83A.010 through 83A.120,
govern the city.
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive, who shall be
called Mayor, by an elected legislative body, which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six, nor more than
12 members, as prescribed by ordinance. An ordinance amending the number of
legislative body members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the County Clerk of any county or counties
in which the city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the
legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of legislative
body members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election
of the number of legislative body members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01    Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Training incentives
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor
   
31.17   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.31   City Clerk/Treasurer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly
swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I,
being a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly
weapons within this state, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a
challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in
carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help
me God,” as established by State Constitution § 228.
   (B)   Bond.
      (1)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
      (2)   All officers, officials, and employees of the city who handle
public funds in the execution of his, her, or their duties shall give a good
and sufficient bond to the city for the faithful and honest performance of his,
her, or their duties, and as security for all money coming into that person’s
hands or under that person’s control. The amount of the bond shall be based
upon the maximum amount of public funds the officer, official, or employee
handles at any given time during a fiscal year cycle. The cost of the bond
shall be paid by the city.
      (3)   Elected officials who post bond, as required by statute, and
employees of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be
deemed to have complied with division (B) above.
(KRS 65.067)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be
changed after his or her election, or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and the City
Council members with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for
Local Government shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year
the annual increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding
year by using 1949 as the base year, in accordance with the State Constitution
§ 246, which provides that mayors in cities of the first class shall be paid at
a rate no greater than $12,000 per annum, and mayors in cities other than the
first class and city council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than
$7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070(3))
   (D)   (1)   The following personnel and pay classifications are hereby
established.
Position Compensation Range
Position                            Compensation Range
Administrative Assistant            $23,402 to $40,000
Administrative Clerk                $25,499 to $41,134
City Clerk/Treasurer             $34,410 to $64,972
General laborer                  $20,800 to $37,440
Police Chief                     $31,200 to $66,436
Police officer                   $22,880 to $37,440
Public Works Director            $24,960 to $45,760
Sewer Plant Operator Class I     $26,028 to $37,001
Sewer Plant Operator Class II    $27,156 to $40,962
Sewer Superintendent             $29,120 to $53,963
Utility Maintenance Director     $24,960 to $41,600
Water Plant Operator Class I     $23,920 to $33,411
Water Plant Operator Class II    $25,334 to $40,671
Water Plant Operator Class III   $28,883 to $43,554
Water/Sewer Operator in Training  $20,800 to $24,960
Water Superintendent             $36,771 to $62,400
 
      (2)   The Mayor shall have discretion to pay employees and nonelected
city officers additional compensation for services rendered, but such
additional compensation shall be subject to the appropriations set form in the
budget ordinance.
(Ord. 2-2019, passed 6-5-2019; Ord. 2-2023, passed 2-27-2023)
Case law reference:
   The limits on compensation contained in the State Constitution are not
absolute limits but rather increase or decrease in accordance with changes in
the consumer price index. See Matthews v. Allen, 360 SW2d 135 (1948).
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council, exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county, and the appeal
shall be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office
vacated before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 TRAINING INCENTIVES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center.
   EXCESS HOURS. Credit hours earned beyond 15 during a single calendar year.
   QUALIFYING COURSE. Any training, seminar, educational, or learning event
that provides instruction or information that is relevant to the duties and
functions of city government and city officials and that has been approved by
the Administrator.
   TRAINING UNIT. Fifteen clock hours of attendance or participation in
qualifying courses during a calendar year.
   (B)   Adoption of a City Officials Training Program; application. In
accordance with House Bill 119 of the 2011 General Assembly, as codified in KRS
Chapter 64, the city hereby adopts and establishes a City Officials Training
Program to make available incentive payments as specified by this section to
the elected city officials, including the Mayor and all members of the City
Council, City Clerk, Administrative Clerk, non-elected officials, and
department heads for obtaining education and training as required under the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   Incentive payment amount; required training participation.
      (1)   Each city official eligible for participation in the City Officials
Training Program shall receive training incentive payments of $500 for
completion of each training unit during his or her continuous service as a city
official within the city.
      (2)   The city official shall only receive training incentive payments
for a maximum of four training units. The city official shall not be awarded
more than one training unit per calendar year.
      (3)   The city official may continue to receive training incentive
payments for four training units in each calendar year following the fourth
year, provided that the officer continues to earn a training unit each
subsequent calendar year.
      (4)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the officer from receiving any training
incentive payments for the calendar year and the city official shall lose any
previously accumulated training units earned during previous calendar years.
      (5)   Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall
be permitted to carry forward a maximum of ten hours to apply to the earning of
a training unit in the following calendar year.
      (6)   Training incentive payments shall be made to a city official
presenting proof of completion of a training unit for a calendar year within 60
days of the conclusion of the calendar year.
   (D)   Policy regarding payment or reimbursement for training courses.
Subject to the constraints and the appropriations established by the city’s
annual budget, the city shall consider paying the cost of attendance or
participation in advance of a city official’s attendance or participation in
the qualifying course if proper application is made to the Mayor.
Alternatively, and subject the constraints and appropriations established by
the city’s annual budget, the city shall consider reimbursing a city official
for the cost of attendance or participation in a qualifying course upon
presentation of proof to the Mayor that the official has received credit for
the course.
   (E)   Administration of City Officials Training Program.
      (1)   The City Officials Training Program shall be administered by the
Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center, which shall be
responsible for approving courses as qualifying under the terms of this
section, shall maintain records of attendance and participation, and shall
notify the city when a city official earns a training unit and the number of
training units earned by a city official during his or her continuous service
as a city official within the city.
      (2)   The Administrator shall evaluate and approve courses as qualifying
for credit based on the relation of the course to the operation of city
government. In addition to other courses which may be approved as qualifying
courses by the Administrator, courses that provide instruction on the statutory
duties of cities and city officials, intergovernmental relationships, municipal
finance and budgeting, municipal taxation, ethics, open records, open meetings,
economic development, or municipal police powers shall be approved as
qualifying courses under this section. The Administrator shall require the
submission of the course or conference agenda, curriculum, name of the
provider, and other course materials to determine whether a course should be
approved as a qualifying course.
      (3)   A city official shall submit proof of attendance or participation
in a qualifying course to the Administrator. A city official shall submit the
course name, date, location, name of the instructor or provider, and sufficient
proof of attendance or participation in the qualifying course before the
Administrator shall award credit. The Administrator shall not award credit to a
city official for attendance or participation in a qualifying course that is
not, in the Administrator’s opinion, substantially different from another
course the city official attended or participated in during the same calendar
year.
      (4)   The Administrator shall maintain records that reflect each of the
courses and hours completed by the city official and shall provide it to each
city official upon request. The Administrator shall, within 30 days of the
close of the calendar year, provide written or electronic certification to each
participating city official of completed courses and hours, and shall, if
applicable, certify the completion of a training unit and total number of
accumulated training units. Upon receipt, a city official shall present a copy
of the certification of the completion of the training unit and the total
accumulated training units to the city in order to receive his or her training
incentive payments.
   (F)   Status of incentive payments.
      (1)   Training incentive payments do not constitute wages under KRS
Chapter 337, creditable compensation under the County Employees Retirement
System under KRS Chapter 78, or compensation for the purposes of setting
maximum compensation or modification of compensation under KRS Chapter 83A, and
may be repealed or modified by the city at any time.
      (2)   The training incentive payment amount established shall not be
adjusted by any index reporting changes to consumer prices or any other method
to account for inflation.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 1-23-2023)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.050, all elective offices of the city shall be
under the non-partisan city election laws, as provided in KRS 83A.170. Pursuant
to KRS 83A.050, there will not be a primary election for elective offices in
the city.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above, by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Ord. 4-1979, passed 9-28-1987; Ord. 1-1989, passed 1-30-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
§ 31.16 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of the city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on January 1 following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service shall not be
considered for purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor, the City
Council shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If, for any reason, any vacancy
in the office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the
Governor shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person,
who shall serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of the Mayor, a member
of the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
the Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter
of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor, which is required
by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council or the
Governor, whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall immediately
notify, in writing, both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect, from among its members, an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor, in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 through 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and
exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes.
      (2)   He or she shall supervise all departments of city government and
the conduct of all city officers and employees under his or her jurisdiction
and shall require each department to make reports to him or her as required by
ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (3)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting inter-local contracting and joint activities.
      (4)   The Mayor shall report to the City Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the City Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (5)   Subject to disapproval of the City Council, the Mayor shall
promulgate procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city
government and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or
upon revision or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the
person responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (6)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (7)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor, or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (8)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority, with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract, and
except for employees of the City Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (9)   (a)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(4) above.
         (b)   However, the Mayor may not delegate the responsibility of
presiding at meetings of the City Council, and the authority to approve
ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be delegated to an
elected officer. With approval of the City Council, the Mayor may rescind any
action taken in his or her absence under division (D)(7) above within 30 days
of the action.
         (c)   If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be
declared vacant by a majority vote of the City Council and the provisions of
division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
   (E)   Compensation.
      (1)   The salary for the office of Mayor, commencing with the term that
begins January 2015, is hereby set and shall be $25,000 per year, payable as
biweekly payments.
      (2)   The provisions are in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.075
(1) the Department for Local Government calculates, by the second Friday in
February of each year, the maximum allowable annual compensation of the mayor
in cities of the first class, the mayor in cities other than the first class,
and legislative body members.
      (3)   The Department’s calculations are based upon the court-established
formula application of Section 246 of the Kentucky Constitution, setting forth
maximum compensation levels for state and local governmental constitutional
officers. Under the prescribed formula, salary maximums set in the 1949
Amendment of Section 246 of Kentucky’s Constitution, to be paid to
constitutional officers, are adjusted to reflect the current purchasing power
of the dollar. The adjustments are based upon the Consumer Price Index
maintained and reported by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of
Labor Statistics.
      (4)   The legislative body shall allow for the COLA to be adopted into
the planning for each fiscal year’s budget planning, and take effect and be
added to the Mayor’s salary and Council Pay upon passage and effective date of
the budget each year. An exception is to be made for the 2022-2023 year,
whereas the COLA increase will take effect upon a passage of a budget amendment
this section.
      (5)   The city will provide a single plan for medical insurance for the
Mayor, the same as available for employees.
      (6)   The Mayor will work a minimum of 35 hours per week, which may
include time attending meetings or other obligations required by the duties of
the office or the City Council.
(Ord. 7-2014, passed 4-26-2014; Ord. 07-2022, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 31.17 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32 of this code of ordinances.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   The title of office;
      (2)   The powers and duties of office;
      (3)   The oath of office;
      (4)   Any bond, if required; and
      (5)   The compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will, and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will, unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   The City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (2)   The Fire Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department;
      (3)   Police Chief; and
      (4)   Superintendent of Water and Sewer.
(Ord. 03-2014, passed 2-24-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.31 CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. This position is a full-time position under
general administrative direction. The City Clerk/Treasurer maintains and
attests to official records of the city; prepares and maintains all financial
records for the city; prepares checks for city expenditures; prepares payroll;
prepares and submits various reports and documents related to city operations;
and performs related work as requested by members of the City Council.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Prepares agenda for and attend all regular and special City Council
meetings and prepares and maintains accurate minutes of all commission
proceedings and records them in the appropriate books;
      (2)   Files and maintains all permanent records of the city. Prepares
ordinances and resolutions for commission as required;
      (3)   Prepares and distributes advertisements, notices, budget documents,
ordinances, and other official announcements for publication as required, and
ensures that publication is in compliance with applicable state law. Also
distributes information to other media outlets as required;
      (4)   Submits budget recommendations to the City Council and prepares
annual FmHa (rural development) budget;
      (5)   Remains responsible for depositing and recording receipts from
various inter- governmental revenue sources, such as: municipal road aid;
police incentive pay; HB413 receipts; and the like;
      (6)   Prepares and submits paperwork required to receive KLEFPF monies;
      (7)   Prepares and submits applications related to the training of police
personnel;
      (8)   Responds to requests for copies of city records, including police
reports, in accordance with state laws, and collects fees disbursement of them;
      (9)   Prepares and maintains personnel files for all city employees;
      (10)   Receives time sheets from employees and prepares city payroll and
maintains payroll records and files;
      (11)   Prepares monthly, quarterly, and annual payroll reports for
federal and state withholding, Social Security, retirement, and other related
transmittal forms. Also, prepares W-2 forms for each employee;
      (12)   Prepares and maintains accurate accounts receivable and accounts
payable records;
      (13)   Prepares all checks for city expenditures after receiving approved
invoices;
      (14)   Handles in-coming phone calls and complaints in City Hall and
takes messages for city officials and employees as required;
      (15)   Maintains current filing system, which will allow reasonable
access to all available data and information;
      (16)   Prepares and maintains accurate financial records for all city
funds, and ensures that expenditures are credited to the appropriate fund.
Assists with balancing and reconciling bank statements for the city bank
accounts;
      (17)   Administers, or assists in the administration of various types of
grant or Institutes of Eminence (IoE) funds received by the city;
      (18)   Possess thorough knowledge of municipal government, interpret
statutes, ordinances, and policies accurately and develops operational
procedures for employees;
      (19)   Has the ability to clearly articulate city policies and programs
to the public, media, and employees;
      (20)   Performs well under stress and deadlines;
      (21)   Has the ability to establish and maintain productive working
relationships with employees, managers, other government officials, and the
public;
      (22)   Has the ability to communicate clearly, in writing and orally, and
comprehend oral and written communication from others;
      (23)   Has the ability to analyze information and offer recommendations,
and the mental acuity to handle multiple tasks simultaneously;
      (24)   Is extremely accurate in all work;
      (25)   Maintains confidentiality; and
      (26)   Will perform any other related duty as required or assigned.
   (C)   Additional tasks.
      (1)   Performs all duties of City Clerk/Treasurer as required by state
law and city ordinances;
      (2)   Prepares recommended budget for City Clerk/Treasurer’s office and
legislative department;
      (3)   Provides information regarding roster of eligible voters for city
elections as required by state law;
      (4)   Completes Uniform Financial Information Report in CFO’s absence;
      (5)   Manages the daily administration and operation of the City Clerk/
Treasurer’s office;
      (6)   Manages fine and abatement collections through Code of Ordinance
Enforcement Board, including filing liens on the city’s behalf;
      (7)   Performs statutory requirements for annexations and sign consent to
annexations on behalf of city;
      (8)   Administers oath of office;
      (9)   Coordinate municipal bond issues with bond counsel, and ensures all
ordinances meet legal publication requirements;
      (10)   Responds to open records requests, in accordance with state law,
and open records decisions of the Attorney General;
      (11)   Researches and reviews subordinate’s research of County Clerk and
PVA records;
      (12)   Maintains the city’s codification, including ensuring compliance
with state law and legislative amendments and managing a five-year review as
required by law;
      (13)   Exercises official subpoena power for the city;
      (14)   Attests transfer and sale of cemetery lots;
      (15)   Responds to emergencies or disasters and assists as needed;
      (16)   Obtains municipal clerk certification through approved course of
study;
      (17)   Assists in the preparation, distribution, collection, and
recording of water, sewer, and property tax bills, business licenses, and the
like; and
      (18)   Receives and distributes all city mail.
   (D)   Qualifications.
      (1)   The City Clerk/Treasurer must have a high school diploma or GED
equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent English; be able to
demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the office; possess
or obtain notary public certification from state; be bondable; be able to pass
a pre-employment background check and drug screening; and meet future job
description changes within six months, as approved by the Mayor or City
Council.
      (2)   It is preferred applicants have taken college courses in English,
business administration, and related subjects; be a certified state municipal
clerk; and have previous managerial or supervisory experience.
   (E)   Knowledge, skill, and abilities. The City Clerk/Treasurer must be
capable of taking good notes and transcribing them into accurate records of
meetings; be able to type with reasonable speed and accuracy; be able to
express thoughts clearly and concisely in written form; be able to use a
variety of office equipment and have knowledge of computers; be able to
establish and maintain an effective working relationship with the employees,
federal and state officials, and the general public; and have basic knowledge
of computer technology, or have the ability to learn, associated with position.
   (F)   Typical working conditions. A computer, calculator, and copier are
used routinely in the performance of position functions. Work is typically
performed in an office setting, sitting at a desk.
   (G)   Disclaimers.
      (1)   The preceding job description has been designed to indicate the
general nature and essential duties and responsibilities of work performed by
employees within this classification. It may not contain a comprehensive
inventory of all duties, responsibilities, and qualifications required of
employees to do this job.
      (2)   The city is an equal opportunity employer. It is the city’s policy
to afford equal employment opportunity to all qualified persons regardless of
race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national
origin, disability, veteran or family status, an individual’s status as a
smoker or nonsmoker, genetic makeup, or any other status or condition protected
by applicable local, state, or federal laws, except where a bona fide
occupational qualification applies.
      (3)   Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with
disabilities to perform the essential functions of the position. To request an
accommodation, contact the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (4)   This position is at-will and nothing contained in this job
description is intended to, nor does it, create a contract of employment for
any specific duration.
(Order 1-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Rules of procedure adopted
   
32.16   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.17   Meetings
   
32.18   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.35   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.36   Official city records
   
32.37   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.38   Publication requirements
   
32.39   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.40   Periodic review required
   
32.41   Municipal orders
   
32.42   Proved by City Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.43   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each City Council member shall be elected at
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for City
Council shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his
or her election. Terms of office begin on January 1 following the election and
shall be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies.
      (1)   If one or more vacancies on the City Council occur in a way that
one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall, within 30 days,
fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice
of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the
remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled.
      (2)   (a)   If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the
Governor shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to
constitute a quorum.
         (b)   Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (3)   (a)    (a)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a
member of the City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which
specifies a resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation
may be submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
         (b)   The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or
special meeting of the City Council occurring on or after the date specified in
the written letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the
written resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or
special meeting of the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City Council
which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City
Council or the Governor, whichever is designated to make the appointment, shall
immediately notify, in writing, both the County Clerk and the Secretary of
State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy on the City
Council is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the elected City Council; which shall not perform any executive functions
except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The City Council shall, by ordinance, establish all appointive offices
and their duties and responsibilities of and codes, rules, and regulations for
the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   The City Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue
to operate city government and shall appropriate the city funds in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   (1)   The City Council shall have the right to investigate all
activities of city government. The City Council may require any city officer or
employee to prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance
of his or her official duties.
      (2)   Any statement required by the City Council to be submitted, or any
investigation undertaken by the City Council, if any office, department, or
agency under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, it shall not be
submitted or undertaken unless, and until, written notice of the City Council’s
action is given to the Mayor.
      (3)   The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the City
Council and is to appear personally, or through his or her designee on behalf
of any department, office, or agency, in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 RULES OF PROCEDURE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The rules of order and procedure attached to Municipal Order 4-1982
shall govern deliberations and meetings of the City Council.
   (B)   These rules may be waived or suspended only by a majority vote of all
members of the City Council present.
(Order 4-1982, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 32.16 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the City Council. Upon the
absence of the Mayor, a presiding officer shall be appointed by majority vote
of a quorum of the City Council at the meeting in which the Mayor is absent.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall call the roll to ascertain the presence
of a quorum of the City Council. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall declare the
absence of the Mayor and request nomination(s) for the election of a presiding
officer. No more than two nominations are permitted. After nomination(s) have
ceased, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall declare that nominations be closed and a
vote conducted to determine the presiding officer for the meeting.
   (C)   The Mayor may participate in City Council proceedings, but shall not
have a vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(Ord. 3-1995, passed 11-20-1995)
Statutory references:
   See KRS 83A.130(5)
§ 32.17 MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor,
or upon written request of a majority of the City Council. In the call, the
Mayor or City Council shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the
special meeting with sufficient notice for the attendance of City Council
members, and for compliance with KRS Chapter 61.
      (2)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
      (3)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person
responsible for maintaining city records, as provided under §
31.31, and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   (1)   It is ordered by the City Council that the regular meeting time
for the City Council be at 6:00 p.m. on the third Monday night of each month in
the Council Chambers of City Hall, except when the meeting date falls on a
holiday.
      (2)   If the meeting date falls on an observed holiday, the regular
meeting will take place at 6:00 p.m. the following business day.
(Order 1-2020, passed 1-20-2020)
§ 32.18 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the City Council shall
constitute a quorum, and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of McKee.”
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it.
   (A)   Text that is intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning
with an opening bracket and at the end with a closing bracket.
   (B)   The text between the brackets shall be stricken through with a single
solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the City Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.38 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
§ 32.34 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the City Council shall be submitted to the
Mayor who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance
by affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the City
Council together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the City Council within ten days after receiving
it, or unless the City Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of
the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.35 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date, and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.36 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   Every action of the City Council shall be made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance, the vote of each member of
the City Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting. The
City Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.31 and
32.37, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.37 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book, or an
ordinance book, in the order adopted, and indexed in a composite index, or
maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)(a), (b))
§ 32.38 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published, pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary, as designated by
the City Council. If the City Council elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the commonwealth, and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public, in a clear and understandable
manner, of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads,
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.39 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city shall not
lessen or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute
relating to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.40 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five years, the city shall cause all ordinances in this
code of ordinances to be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another, and to be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.41 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The City Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders
shall be in writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may
be amended by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, a municipal order may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city, and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
§ 32.42 PROVED BY CITY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.43 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Council members shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and State
Constitution § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Fiscal year
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Code Adoptions
   
33.40   Model Procurement Code Adoption
 
   
33.99   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly, and with full disclosure, the financial
operations of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity
with generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted
and administered in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   No monies shall be expended from any governmental or proprietary
fund except in accordance with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this
section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if re-adopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The following standards shall apply to the form and detail in which
the annual budget proposal of the city is to be prepared.
      (1)   The annual budget proposal shall detail the raising of revenue from
all sources, including grants and transfers, and the spending of money for
specified programs, functions, activities, or objectives of the city, including
all principal and interest due on debt, for the budget year. The total of
anticipated revenues shall equal or exceed the total of proposed expenditures.
      (2)   The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in form,
to the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
      (3)   The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete program and
financial plan for all funds for the budget year. It shall contain the
following:
         (a)   A budget message, as specified in KRS 91A.030(7); and
         (b)   A budget summary, as specified in division (F)(4) below,
supported by:
            l.   An estimate of fund balance carry-forward, as specified in
division (F)(5) below;
            2.   An estimate of all anticipated revenues of the city compared
to previous years, as specified in division (F)(6) below;
            3.   Proposed expenditures compared to previous years, as specified
in division (F)(7) below; and
            4.   An estimate of anticipated transfers, as specified in division
(F)(8) below.
      (4)   At the head of the annual budget proposal, there shall appear a
summary of the budget, which need not be itemized further than by principal
sources of anticipated revenue, and proposed expenditures by program, function,
activity, or objectives of the city, in such a manner as to present a simple
and clear summary of the detailed estimates of the budget components.
      (5)   Each fund balance available for appropriation shall be limited to
the amount by which assets are estimated to exceed liabilities at the beginning
of the budget year.
      (6)   In parallel columns opposite the several items of anticipated
revenue, there shall be placed:
         (a)   The amount of each such item actually received during the next
preceding fiscal year;
         (b)   The total of the amount of each item actually received to the
time of preparation of the annual budget proposal, plus anticipated receipts
for the remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as
possible; and
         (c)   The amount of each item anticipated to be received during the
budget year, estimated as accurately as possible.
      (7)   In parallel columns, opposite the several items of proposed
expenditures, there shall be placed:
         (a)   The amount of each such item actually expended during the next
preceding fiscal year;
         (b)   The total of the amount actually expended to the time of
preparation of the annual budget proposal, plus the expenditures for the
remainder of the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as possible; and
         (c)   The amount of each item to be appropriated for the budget year.
      (8)   Any anticipated excess revenues, if legally available for general
purposes and to the extent such excess is to be used to support other funds,
shall be stated as a transfer item in the annual budget proposal.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the City Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   The City Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making
appropriations for the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and
proper, whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget
proposal. The budget ordinance may be in any form that the City Council finds
most efficient in enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of the
State Constitution § 157.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The City Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, if the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the City Council of operating statements,
including budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual
budget has been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once
every three months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations
are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate, or warrant
for the payment of money by the city in any way, to any extent beyond the
unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(Ord. 263, passed 6-1-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 91A.030
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)    Except as provided in divisions (B) through (D) below, each city
shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be
audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The
audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) above, a city
with a population equal to or less than 1,000, based upon the most recent
federal decennial census, may elect to have an audit performed every other
fiscal year in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
for that odd-numbered year cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall
be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit, but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (C)    In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) above, a
city with a population of more than 1,000, but less than 2,000, based upon the
most recent federal decennial census, may elect to have an audit performed
every other fiscal year to cover the two fiscal years occurring since the prior
audit in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or
a certified public accountant. The audit shall include both fiscal years since
the prior audit and shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the
fiscal years to be audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the
audit report to the Department for Local Government for information purposes by
no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal years being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit, but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (D)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with division (C) above shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic or paper copy to the Department for Local
Government for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this division. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
division shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement under KRS
424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an attestation
engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (E)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.    
   (F)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 through 42.495. The auditor shall include a
certification with the annual audit or biennial report that the funds were
expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts, upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (G)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 through 6.975.
   (H)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the City Council, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS Chapter 424,
containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (I)   Any resident of the city, or owner of real property within the city,
may bring an action in the city’s circuit court to enforce the provisions of
this section.
   (J)   (1)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city
from completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in
compliance with the applicable deadlines in divisions (A) through (D) above,
the city may submit a written request for an extension of time to the
Department for Local Government on a form prescribed by the Department for
Local Government.
      (2)   The Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it
is submitted on or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the
Department for Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating
circumstances beyond the control of the city. Extensions granted under this
division shall not exceed nine months from the original due date of the audit
or financial statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an
extension for a city and the city fails to complete and submit the required
audit or financial statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then
the provisions of division (K) below shall apply.
   (K)   (1)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and
submit it to the Department for Local Government, as required in divisions (A)
to (D) and (J) of this section, the Department for Local Government shall
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to
comply with the audit requirements of this section, and that any funds in the
possession of any agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be
withheld from the city until further notice.
      (2)   The Department for Local Government shall immediately notify the
Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the requirements
of divisions (A) through (D) and (K) of this section for all prior fiscal years
it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and the
Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of payments
to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the noncompliance.
   (L)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040) Penalty, see §
33.99
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with U.S.C. 12, § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor, which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund-out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06 FISCAL YEAR.
   In compliance with State Constitution § 169 and in order that all city
departments have a uniform fiscal accounting year, there is established a
fiscal year of July 1 to June 30.
(Ord. 264, passed 6-1-1981)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by City Council of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition, construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments, except as provided in this subchapter and in any
applicable statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   The cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair
basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. The City
Council may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424,
and mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   A description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   A statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   The time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   The time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   (A)   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties.
   (B)   Promptly upon passage, the city shall publish the ordinance pursuant
to KRS Chapter 424, and shall mail, by certified mail to each affected property
owner, a notice of determination to proceed with the project, the fair basis of
assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to the property owner, and the
ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the total cost of the entire
project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.20, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section, or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time, as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement.
      (1)   The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether created
prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a lien for
state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement taxes,
and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners.
      (2)   No error in the proceedings of the City Council shall exempt any
benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, from payment
thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CODE ADOPTIONS
§ 33.40 MODEL PROCUREMENT CODE ADOPTION.
   Pursuant to KRS 83A.060(5), the city does hereby adopt the provisions of the
state’s Model Procurement Code, KRS 45A.005 et seq.
(Ord. 1-05, passed 5-6-2005)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 shall subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500. In
addition, any officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
33.04 shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50,
nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only
once in a civil action brought by any resident of the city or owner of real
property within the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable
fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be assessed
against the unsuccessful party.
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH and PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility, as defined in KRS 520.010,
or photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
(KRS 61.870(9))
   CITY. The city government of the city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of the city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to: copiers; computers;
recorders or tape processors; or other automated devices.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to: paper; microform;
disks; diskettes; optical disks; magnetic tapes; and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The chief administrative officer, or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof, and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission, and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee, and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board, and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by, or pursuant to, state or
local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or other legislative
act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the commonwealth from state or local authority funds.
However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in compensation for
goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained through a
competitive procurement process shall not be included in the determination of
whether a body is a public agency under this division (8);
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this definition; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created, and controlled by a public agency, as
defined in this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this definition.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORD. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body discussed in division (8) of the
definition of PUBLIC AGENCY above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs, or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer
during regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official
custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the official
custodian, may require a request to inspect public records to be in writing,
signed by the applicant, and with the applicant’s name printed legibly on the
application. A written request to inspect public records may be presented by
hand delivery, mail, or via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the open records law, being KRS 61.870 through 61.884,
and the requested public records are immediately available, the custodian shall
deliver the records for inspection. A person may inspect public records at the
designated office of the city during the regular office hours, or in
appropriate cases, by receiving copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer or in another office of the city as determined by the official
custodian or custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of the city without the written
permission of the official custodian of the record. When public records are
inspected at the city offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the
right to make abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain
copies of all written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian
may require advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available, and after the person pays, in advance, the prescribed fee.
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) through (3)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
    If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay, and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   Each public agency, upon any request for records made under this chapter,
shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request,
and shall notify, in writing, the person making the request within the five-day
period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in part,
inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific exception
authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the
exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued by the
official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   (1)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make
abstracts of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of
all public records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
      (2)   If the applicant desires copies of public records other than
written records, the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or
permit the applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall
ensure that the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format.
      (3)   If the public agency maintains electronic public records in a
format other than ASCII, and the format conforms to the requestor’s
requirements, the public record may be provided in this alternate electronic
format for standard fees, as specified by the public agency.
      (4)   Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a non-standardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes. The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a non-standardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may, at its discretion, provide the requested format and recover staff costs,
as well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   (a)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public
records are requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified
statement from the requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they
shall be used, and may require the requestor to enter into a contract with the
agency.
         (b)   The contract shall permit use of the public records for the
stated commercial purpose for a specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction; except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which, if openly disclosed, would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency, or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
               1.   In conjunction with an application for or the
administration of a loan or a grant;
               2.   In conjunction with an application for or the
administration of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits, as
described in KRS Chapter 154;
               3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial
enterprise, including mineral exploration records, unlamented, secret,
commercially valuable plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used
for the making, preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or
materials which are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
               4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute;
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to: banks; savings and loan associations; and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   (a)   Records of law enforcement agencies, or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication, that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known, or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication.
         (b)   Unless exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public
records exempted under this provision shall be open after enforcement action is
completed or a decision is made to take no action; however, records or
information compiled and maintained by county attorneys or the commonwealth’s
attorneys pertaining to criminal investigations or criminal litigation shall be
exempted from the provisions of this chapter, and shall remain exempted after
enforcement action, including litigation, is completed or a decision is made to
take no action. The exemptions provided by this division (A)(8) shall not be
used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the exercise of rights
granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)    All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly;
      (13)   (a)   Public records that the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(13) through the disclosure of the location, configuration,
or security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems.
These critical systems shall include, but not be limited to: information
technology; communication; electrical; fire suppression; ventilation; water;
wastewater; sewage; and gas systems.
            7.   The following records, when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings;
schematics; maps; or specifications of structural elements; floor plans; and
operating; utility or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records, when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(13), TERRORIST ACT means a criminal
act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency, or all or part, of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6. above; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the State Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the State General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(13) under the open records law, being
KRS 61.870 through 61.884.
      (14)   Public or private records, including: books; papers; maps;
photographs; cards; tapes; discs; diskettes; recordings; software; or other
documentation, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that non-
disclosure is requested, in writing, by the donor or depositor of such records,
but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapters 45A or 56.
This exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be re-solicited.
      (16)    Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of;
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409; and
      (19)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the public agency shall separate the excepted, and
make the non-excepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. These records
shall include, but not be limited to: work plans; job performance; demotions;
evaluations; promotions; compensation; classification; reallocation; transfers;
layoffs; disciplinary actions; examination scores; and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 through 61.884.
CHAPTER 35: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Industrial Development Authority
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Members
Police Department
   
35.15   Establishment
   
35.16   Police Chief
   
35.17   Police Officers
Volunteer Fire Department
   
35.30   Establishment
   
35.31   Fire Chief
   
35.32   Calls for assistance
   
35.33   Emergency evacuations
Public Works Department
   
35.45   Public Works Director
Administrative Department
   
35.60   Tax Collector/Bookkeeper
   
35.61   General laborer
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city agrees to join with the county’s Fiscal Court for the purpose of
establishing a joint city-county Industrial Development Authority to be named
the County Industrial Development Authority, as per 154.50-316.
(Res. 6-1985, passed 11-18-1985)
§ 35.02 MEMBERS.
   The Industrial Development Authority shall be governed by KRS 154.50-301
through 154.50-346. The Mayor shall appoint three members and the county’s
judge shall appoint three members to this Industrial Development Authority.
(Res. 6-1985, passed 11-18-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 154.50-326
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Police Department in the city.
§ 35.16 POLICE CHIEF.
   The city hereby establishes the office of the Police Chief. The powers and
duties of the Police Chief shall include, but are not limited to, the following
provisions, as set out in this section.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. As a sworn law enforcement officer, the Police
Chief coordinates the law enforcement programs for the city, performs general
duty police work in protection of life and property, enforcement of laws,
conflict management, and investigation of crimes; and also performs related
work, as required.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Patrols the city in a radio-equipped vehicle to enforce federal,
state, and local laws, administrative regulations and ordinances, and to
prevent and/or discover the commission of crime;
      (2)   Responds to calls received during shift; investigates suspicious
conditions and complaints;
      (3)   Intervenes in interpersonal crisis, conflict, and domestic violence
situations to protect life, property, and personal rights;
      (4)   Initiates investigations into all suspicious or hazardous
circumstances observed while patrolling assigned area;
      (5)   Investigates and reports factual information regarding all
incidents of crime personally discovered or reported by a citizen; conducts
covert activities or surveillance assignments as assigned;
      (6)   Performs and assists in specialized tasks such as investigation of
arson, sex crimes, forgery, sexual/child abuse, vice or narcotics, fingerprint
identification, and intelligence collection;
      (7)   Prepares statements of suspects, witnesses, and victims;
      (8)   Arrests, books, and/or processes criminal law violators;
      (9)   Issues citations;
      (10)   Cooperates in the prosecution of criminal offenders by court
testimony, grand jury testimony, and at coroner’s inquest;
      (11)   Serves summons and subpoenas;
      (12)   Transports prisoners;
      (13)   Provides traffic control services in connection with school,
inoperative electronic traffic control devices, accidents, parades, special
events, and other causes of congestion;
      (14)   Maintains public order in crowds, parades, funerals, or other
public gatherings;
      (15)   May render first aid; may assist ambulance and fire services in
emergency situations;
      (16)   Checks public buildings, businesses, and residential areas to
enhance security against trespass, damage, and unsafe conditions; observes
buildings for signs of illegal entry;
      (17)   Accepts citizen complaints and attends to their disposition, or
forwards them to a higher authority;
      (18)   Administers breathalyser tests;
      (19)   Investigates accidents and prepares reports;
      (20)   Participates in continuing education classes;
      (21)   Renders emergency assistance to citizens and the public as needed;
      (22)   Provides appropriate information to citizens regarding crime
prevention;
      (23)   May perform special related duties in special details or
administrative services;
      (24)   Prepares written reports on shift activities; maintains filing
system of reports and organization of all police departments reports;
      (25)   Establishes rapport with citizens of the community;
      (26)   Prepares work schedules for himself or herself and other police
officers;
      (27)   Maintains and updates police policies and procedures;
      (28)   Maintains all patrol officer qualifications and abilities required
by Kentucky Law Enforcement Council (KLEC);
      (29)   Maintains thorough knowledge of modern policing principles,
practices, and techniques of crime, accident investigation, and police
administration;
      (30)   Performs well under stress;
      (31)   Commands officers and plans, assigns, and supervises the work of
others in a manner conducive to achieving full performance, and establishes or
maintains high morale;
      (32)   Holds decision making and planning skills to identify equipment,
manpower, and budget requirements to accomplish crime prevention and crime
resolution;
      (33)   Has the ability to enforce law, rules, and regulations firmly,
tactfully, and impartially when dealing with the general public;
      (34)   Maintains confidentiality;
      (35)   Has management skills to recommend and administer discipline of
civilian or sworn employees;
      (36)   Has a professional attitude when reacting to stressful situations
concerning the public;
      (37)   Has public speaking abilities to ensure general public is
cognizant of the Police Department’s capabilities and limitations;
      (38)   Shall be diplomatic and courteous when dealing with employees,
supervisors, citizens, or suspects;
      (39)   Shall be physically capable of subduing placing into custody
anyone violating the law or wanted by law enforcement agencies;
      (40)   Communicates clearly and comprehends communication of others;
      (41)   Maintains credibility and integrity as a senior-level manager and
instill the same in subordinates;
      (42)   Ability to monitor, evaluate, and recommend Department changes to
respond to community need;
      (43)   Has total knowledge of city geographic characteristics, road
locations, and interior layout of major buildings;
      (44)   Has complete knowledge of all applicable federal, state, and local
law, as well as Department policy and procedure;
      (45)   Patrols the city on foot, or in a vehicle;
      (46)   Preserves law and order;
      (47)   Remains responsible for the prevention or discovery of crime;
      (48)   Investigates and makes reports on auto accidents, robberies,
domestic quarrels, and other criminal or emergency situations;
      (49)   Directs traffic as needed at school crossings and intersections;
      (50)   Assists motorists in trouble;
      (51)   Makes arrests and transport prisoners to jail;
      (52)   Assists other law enforcement agencies or serves as backup for
them;
      (53)   Participates in court proceedings as required;
      (54)   Prepares and maintains case files to be presented in court;
      (55)   Serves warrants, summons, and citations issued by court;
      (56)   Ensures the proper maintenance of police cars and other police
equipment;
      (57)   Attends and completes required training;
      (58)   Prepares and submits applications related to the training of
police personnel;
      (59)   Maintains, communicates, and files all necessary forms with the
Department of Criminal Justice to ensure the city has officers on record to
satisfy HB-413 requirements;
      (60)   Renders aid to victims at accident or crime scenes until emergency
medical personnel arrive;
      (61)   Makes presentations to school and civic groups throughout the year
as requested;
      (62)   Plans and directs the work of other police personnel within the
Department;
      (63)   Trains and instructs other officers in law enforcement procedures
and activities;
      (64)   Serves as departmental spokesperson when needed by the public and/
or media;
      (65)   Will perform other related duty as required or assigned; and
      (66)   In addition to the essential functions, the Police Chief may be
assigned specialized functions, such as community services, neighborhood watch
programs, investigations, and the like.
   (C)   Minimum qualifications. To be considered for the position of Police
Chief, applicants should have graduated from high school, or an equivalent;
have minimum prior law enforcement experience of two years; have a state
certification; have successfully completed required law enforcement training;
have completed required annual training; and possess and maintain a valid
driver’s license.
   (D)   Special knowledge and skills. The Police Chief should have knowledge
of current developments in law enforcement and public safety; federal, state,
and local laws; administrative regulations and ordinances and their application
in work assignments; modern police principles, practices, and methods; street
layout and population pattern of the city; and preventative maintenance
requirements for vehicles and equipment. He or she should also have skill in
the use of firearms and excellent communication skills.
   (E)   Abilities. The Police Chief shall have the ability to remember names,
faces, and details of incidents; analyze situations and to adopt a quick,
effective, and reasonable course of action with regard to surrounding hazards
and circumstances; exercise good judgment to make decisions in accordance with
applicable laws and policies, accept and share responsibility, and be
responsive in the performance of all police work; use resourcefulness and tact
in meeting new problems; understand and follow oral and written communications;
prepare clear and comprehensive reports; use firearms and other weapons; know
the safe and proper use of firearms; drive and operate automobile safely and
efficiently during all weather conditions; and establish and maintain effective
working relationships with city officers and employees, other police
departments/agencies, and the general public. Additionally, he or she shall be
in excellent physical condition and possess physical strength and agility.
   (F)   Typical working conditions. Work is generally performed outdoors,
regardless of weather conditions; intermittent sitting, standing, walking,
climbing, bending, carrying, stretching, and/or stooping is required. The
Police Chief must be able to lift objects weighing in excess of 25 pounds, must
be able to physically restrain individuals when required, and must operate a
police cruiser in emergency situations. He or she may be exposed to noise,
fumes, and all weather conditions. He or she has frequent public and internal
contact requiring tact and diplomacy. There is regular use of confidential
information, and the mental effort required by this position is considered to
be heavy; the job has constant interruptions. The Police Chief must be able to
work irregular shifts, and must be able to respond to call in emergency
situations at all hours.
   (G)   Additional requirements. The Police Chief must meet all Department of
Justice requirements for a police officer within the commonwealth, including
physical and mental; wear a safety vest at all times while on duty;
successfully pass a detailed background investigation; meet the job-related
physical and psychological requirements in effect at the time of appointment;
and must pass any job-related mental, psychological, and/or physical qualifying
examinations that may be prescribed. See KRS Chapter 95 for additional
requirements.
(Order 01-2014, passed 2-24-2014; Order 4-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 35.17 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. As sworn law enforcement officers, police
officers perform general police work in the protection of life and property,
enforcement of laws and ordinances, investigation of crimes, and the like, and
perform related work as required.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Patrols the city on foot or in a radio-equipped vehicle to enforce
federal, state, and local laws, administrative regulations and ordinances, and
to prevent and/or discover the commission of crime;
      (2)   Responds to calls received during shift; investigates suspicious
conditions and complaints;
      (3)   Intervenes in interpersonal crisis, conflict, and domestic violence
situations to protect life, property, and personal rights;
      (4)   Initiates investigations into all suspicious or hazardous
circumstances observed while patrolling assigned area;
      (5)   Investigates and reports factual information regarding all
incidents of crime personally discovered or reported by a citizen; conducts
covert activities or surveillance assignments as assigned;
      (6)   Performs and assists in specialized tasks, such as investigation of
arson, sex crimes, forgery, sexual/child abuse, vice or narcotics, fingerprint
identification, and intelligence collection;
      (7)   Prepares statements of suspects, witnesses, and victims;
      (8)   Arrests, books, and/or processes criminal law violators, and issues
citations;
      (9)   Cooperates in the prosecution of criminal offenders by court
testimony, grand jury testimony, and at coroner’s inquests;
      (10)   Serves summons, warrants, and subpoenas;
      (11)   Transports prisoners;
      (12)   Provides traffic control services in connection with school
crossing, inoperative electronic devices, accidents, parades and special
events;
      (13)   Maintains public order in crowds, parades, funerals, or other
public gatherings;
      (14)   May render first-aid; may assists ambulance and fire/rescue
services in emergency situations;
      (15)   Checks public buildings, businesses, and residential areas to
enhance security against trespass, damage, and unsafe conditions;
      (16)   Administers breathalyser tests;
      (17)   Investigates accidents and prepares reports;
      (18)   Renders emergency assistance to citizens and the public as needed;
      (19)   May serve as Field Training Officer when assigned by the
Department;
      (20)   Provides appropriate information to citizens regarding crime
prevention;
      (21)   May perform special related duties in special details or
administrative services;
      (22)   Prepares written reports on shift activities;
      (23)   Establishes rapport with citizens of the community;
      (24)   Participates in training programs to maintain certification;
      (25)   Carry a firearm and have the power to make arrests;
      (26)   Will perform other related duties as required or assigned; and
      (27)   Police officers may be assigned to specialized junctions, such as
D.A.R.E. officers, community services, neighborhood watch programs, and the
like.
   (C)   Minimum qualifications. To be considered for a position as a police
officer, applicants should have graduated from high school, or equivalent
supplemented by previous work experience necessary to complete required
training; successfully competed required basic training; successfully complete
required annual training; and possess and maintain valid driver’s license
issued by the commonwealth.
   (D)   Special knowledge and skills. Police officers shall have knowledge of
current developments in law and federal, state, and local laws, administrative
regulations, and ordinances in their application in work assignments; modern
police principles, practices, and methods; street layout and population pattern
of the city; first-aid; and preventive maintenance requirements for vehicles
and equipment. Police officers should be skilled in the use of firearms and
have excellent communication skills.
   (E)   Abilities. Police officers shall have the ability to remember names,
faces, and details of incidents; analyze situations and adopt a quick,
effective, and reasonable course of action with regard to surrounding hazards
and circumstances; exercise good judgment and make decisions in accordance with
applicable laws and policies; accept and share responsibility; be responsive in
the performance of all police work; use resourcefulness and tact in meeting new
problems; understand and follow oral and written communications; prepare clear
and comprehensive reports; use and care for firearms and other weapons; learn
the safe and proper use of firearms; drive and operate automobiles safely and
efficiently during all weather conditions; establish and maintain effective
working relationships with city officers and employees, other police
departments/agencies, and the general public; and make fair and impartial
decisions in accordance with applicable federal and state laws, administrative
regulations, and local ordinances. Police officers should be in excellent
physical condition and possess physical strength and agility.
   (F)   Typical working conditions.
      (1)   Work is generally performed outdoors, regardless of weather
conditions; intermittent sitting, standing, walking, climbing, bending,
carrying, stretching and/or stooping is required. Police officers must be able
to lift objects weighing in excess of 25 pounds, be able to physically restrain
individuals when required, and operate a police cruiser in emergency
situations.
      (2)   He, she, or they may be exposed to noise, fumes, and all weather
conditions. Police officers have frequent public and internal contact requiring
tact and diplomacy. There is regular use of confidential information, and the
mental effort required by this position is considered to be moderate to heavy;
the job has constant interruptions.
      (3)   Police officers must be able to work irregular shifts, and must be
able to respond to call in emergency situations at all hours; overtime shall be
considered non-exempt.
   (G)   Additional information.
      (1)   Instructions are somewhat general; many aspects of work are covered
specifically, but police officers must use some personal judgment; decisions
are based on wide knowledge of many factors where the application of advanced
or technical concepts are required.
      (2)   Police officers must refine existing work methods and develop new
techniques, concepts, or programs within established limits.
      (3)   Most completed work is reviewed by a police officer’s supervisor,
through either written reports or oral presentation.
      (4)   The tools, equipment, and vehicles used by police officers include:
police cruisers; firearms; batons; hand cuffs; pepper spray; radios; cameras;
breathalyser tests/portable breathalyser tests (PBT); and normal office
equipment (e.g., telephones, computers, and the like).
   (H)   Additional requirements. Police officers must meet the job-related
physical and psychological requirements in effect at the time of appointment,
and must pass any job-related mental, psychological, and/or physical qualifying
examinations that may be prescribed. Employees in this class are subject to the
city’s drug and alcohol testing program. See KRS Chapter 95 for additional
requirements.
(Order 5-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Volunteer Fire Department is hereby established in the city.
§ 35.31 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The nonelected office of Fire Chief is hereby established and created.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of
the City Council, pursuant to KRS 83A.080, and may be removed by the Mayor at
will.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Fire Chief unless such
person has taken the oath required by the Constitution of the Commonwealth §
228.
   (D)   (1)   Subject to the executive authority of the Mayor and the rules
and regulations promulgated by the firefighters and approved by the Mayor, the
Fire Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be responsible for the
organization and operation of the Volunteer Fire Department
      (2)   Fire Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department shall supervise,
direct, and control the equipment of the Volunteer Fire Department and the
firefighters in their response to fires and the extinguishment thereof, and the
plans, preparations, procedures, practice, and training in regard thereto, and
may, as Fire Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department, perform, or cause to be
performed, all other actions authorized by law, ordinance, or regulation.
§ 35.32 CALLS FOR ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department is permitted to answer all calls for
assistance with city-owned equipment.
   (B)   When such assistance is given outside the city limits, the Volunteer
Fire Department shall provide, or have provided, back-up fire assistance for
the city.
(Res. 227, passed 12-6-1979)
§ 35.33 EMERGENCY EVACUATIONS.
   The authority to evacuate the city, or parts thereof, in emergency
situations is vested in the Fire Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department, or the
chain of command within the Volunteer Fire Department in the absence of the
Fire Chief.
(Ord. 226, passed 12-6-1979)
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
§ 35.45 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Primary responsibilities. Under general administrative direction, the
Public Works Director plans, organizes, directs, coordinates, and evaluates all
activities and programs of the Department, which includes streets, parks, and
other interests of the public; ensures proper construction, operation,
maintenance, repair, and/or cleanliness of systems and sanitation services for
the service area; is responsible for functions for the city; and performs
related work as required.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Plans, organizes, directs, coordinates, and evaluates all
activities and programs of the Department;
      (2)   Maintains equipment and maintenance for Public Works Department;
      (3)   Maintains the city’s public recreational facilities;
      (4)   Remains responsible for overall management of the Public Works
Department;
      (5)   Establishes and ensures compliance with Departmental safety
programs;
      (6)   Analyzes and recommends projects to extend services to developments
and industries;
      (7)   Obtains and coordinates federal and state grants and loans;
      (8)   Works with federal and state agencies to ensure compliance with
laws and administrative regulations;
      (9)   Confers with city officials, contractors, and others in regard to
public works systems;
      (10)   Consults with the Mayor, consultants, and/or subordinates on work
problems, plans, blueprints, specifications, and other work operation,
construction, installation, and improvement projects;
      (11)   Reviews and analyzes methods, equipment used, and performance to
increase effectiveness, improving results or effecting economics in operation
and maintenance activities;
      (12)   Establishes and ensures compliance with preventive maintenance
programs;
      (13)   Maintains ongoing public relations through courteous and prompt
attention to requests for services, complaints, and the like;
      (14)   Ensures preparation and maintenance of records, reports, and the
like; ensures that reports are forwarded to required organizations;
      (15)   Assists with development and administration of the annual budget;
      (16)   Ensures proper administration of purchasing system, including the
preparation and advertisement of bid specifications as needed;
      (17)   Represents the city at meetings regarding public works;
      (18)   Assists the Superintendent in planning, organizing, directing,
coordinating, and evaluating the activities and programs of the Department,
including the construction, maintenance, and cleanliness of city streets,
roads, bridges, sidewalks, alleys, storm sewers and culverts, manholes,
drainage ditches, street signs, barricades, and the like;
      (19)   Remains responsible for cleaning and maintaining vehicles and
equipment assigned to the Department, including preventive maintenance;
      (20)   Remains responsible for maintenance and installation of street
signs;
      (21)   Maintains adequate inventory of materials, supplies, tools, and
spare parts;
      (22)   Prepares and maintains and/or supervises the preparation and
maintenance of required reports and records;
      (23)   Ensures that snow removal operations are performed in timely and
efficient manner; operates snow plow, salt spreader, and brine sprayer;
      (24)   Accepts complaints and attends to their disposition;
      (25)   Attends continuing education classes; and
      (26)   Will perform any other related duty as required or assigned.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Public Works Director shall have a high school
diploma, or GED equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent English;
demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the office; possess
and maintain a valid state driver’s license; be able to operate, or learn how
to operate, heavy machinery; and be able to pass a pre-employment background
check and drug screening.
   (D)   Special knowledge and skills. The Public Works Director shall have
thorough knowledge of the equipment, materials, methods, and techniques used in
construction, maintenance, and cleanliness of streets and roads, and related
infrastructure; the geography of the city; and of work hazards and applicable
safety precautions associated with equipment, vehicles, tools, and procedures.
   (E)   Abilities. The Public Works Director shall have ability to ensure
compliance with established safety standards; plan, organize, direct, and
evaluate the work of others; supervise the work of others through supervisors;
communicate effectively, both orally and in writing; prepare job specifications
and cost estimates; prepare grant applications; administer funded projects;
ensure compliance with preventive maintenance and servicing programs; prepare
and/or ensure the preparation of records and reports on a timely basis, and to
ensure that reports are forwarded as required; and establish and maintain
effective working relationships with officers, employees, and the general
public.
   (F)   Typical working conditions. Work is predominantly performed indoors at
a desk or table, but includes outside work regardless of weather conditions.
The Public Works Director is required to perform intermittent standing,
walking, and stooping, and must operate vehicles. He or she may exposed to
machinery and its moving parts; exposed to dangerous machinery and sharp tools;
required to be in high places and confined spaces; required to use stairs and
ladders; and may be exposed to fumes, chemicals, and toxic substances. He or
she has frequent public and internal contact requiring tact and diplomacy.
There is regular use of confidential information, and the mental effort
required by this position is considered to be heavy; the job has frequent
interruptions. The Public Works Director must be able to attend meetings during
evening hours, and must be able to respond to calls in emergency situations at
all hours.
   (G)   Additional information.
      (1)   Instructions are very general; the Public Works Director must use
his or her personal judgment most of the time.
      (2)   The Public Works Director must refine existing work methods and
develop new techniques, concepts, or programs within established limits or
policies.
      (3)   Work is reviewed through either written or oral reports.
      (4)   Assignments involve decisions based on a wide knowledge of many
factors where application of advanced or technical concepts are required.
(Order 6-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.60 TAX COLLECTOR/BOOKKEEPER.
   (A)   Primary responsibilities. The Tax Collector/Bookkeeper performs
advanced clerical work involving the preparation and collection of city
property tax bills, occupational taxes, licensing fees, net profits, and other
applicable taxes, as well as any necessary financial tracking duties deemed
necessary.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Inputs data into accounting software, checks for and resolves
variances, and processes payables;
      (2)   Performs work related to the preparation of property tax notices,
assessments, and fees;
      (3)   Remains responsible for managing the receipt of daily cash and cash
reports from various revenue sources including taxes, delinquent taxes,
assessments, building permits, license fees, insurance premiums, and the like;
      (4)   Remains responsible for maintaining records and reports relating to
all tax payers (e.g., property, occupational, and the like);
      (5)   Remains responsible for collection of delinquent customer payments;
      (6)   Ensures daily deposit of funds and/or makes daily bank deposits;
      (7)   Balances and reconciles bank statements;
      (8)   Assists with preparation of timely financial reports for the City
Council;
      (9)   Compiles and analyzes financial information to prepare entries to
journals and ledgers;
      (10)   Has the ability to work extensively with computerized municipal
fund accounting system;
      (11)   Uses desktop computer programs in word processing, spreadsheets,
and databases;
      (12)   Maintains an accounts payable system, determines fund
availability, and disburses payment from proper accounts to the correct vendors
for all purchases made by the city;
      (13)   Works closely with accounts receivable managers in the private
sector to assure timely and accurate payment of the city’s bills;
      (14)   Assists with preparing reports for internal use, public use, city
legislative body, state, and federal agencies;
      (15)   Maintains all accounts in balance with proper ledgers, journals,
and bank accounts;
      (16)   Assists with preparing month end closing and annual closing at the
end of the fiscal year;
      (17)   Implements proper accounting procedures and internal controls for
proper accounting of public funds; and
      (18)   Will perform any other related duty as required or assigned.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Tax Collector/Bookkeeper shall have a high school
diploma, or GED equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent English;
demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the office; possess
and maintain a valid state driver’s license; be bondable; and be able to pass a
pre-employment background check and drug screening.
   (D)   Special knowledge and skills. The Tax Collector/Bookkeeper shall have
considerable knowledge of modern accounting procedures and of the basic
principles of municipal finance; modern office practices, procedures, and
equipment; computer technology with ability to learn and utilize necessary
computer programs, including spreadsheet and word processing application; and
state and local statutory/regulatory requirements pertaining to the development
and preservation of city council minutes and records. He or she shall have
effective communication skills.
   (E)   Abilities. The Tax Collector/Bookkeeper shall have the ability to
establish and maintain effective working relationships with employees,
government officials, and the general public; and the ability to maintain
important records efficiently and accurately, and to prepare clear, concise
reports from this information.
   (F)   Typical working conditions. Work is typically performed in an office,
sitting at a desk or table. The Tax Collector/Bookkeeper may be required to
perform intermittent standing or stooping, and must lift objects weighing less
than 25 pounds. The Tax Collector/Bookkeeper is required to use normal office
equipment, such as computers, postage machines, telephones, fax machines, copy
machines, and scanners, and must be bondable. He or she has frequent public and
internal contact requiring tact and diplomacy. There is regular use of
confidential information, and the mental effort required by this position is
considered to be moderate; the job has constant interruptions.
   (G)   Additional information.
      (1)   Instructions are somewhat general; many aspects of the work are
covered specifically, but the Tax Collector/Bookkeeper also must use his or her
own judgment some of the time.
      (2)   Work varies slightly and the Tax Collector/Bookkeeper may seldom be
required to take different, new, or unusual approaches in completing work.
      (3)   Supervisor spot-checks completed work.
      (4)   There is a choice of standard procedures.
(Order 2-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 35.61 GENERAL LABORER.
   (A)   Primary responsibilities. A general laborer helps fill the gaps of
coverage in all departments.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities. The job duties performed will
vary by department assignment. Basic duties will likely include, but are not
limited to: mowing; building maintenance; custodial duties; assisting at water
or sewage plants; and the like. This job will include any tasks deemed
necessary and assigned by the Mayor, or current assigned Supervisor.
Departmental assignments and job responsibilities are likely to be frequent.
   (C)   Qualifications. A general laborer shall have a high school diploma, or
GED equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent English; possess and
maintain a valid state driver’s license; and be able to pass a pre-employment
background check and drug screening.
(Order 17-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
   
36.01   Election of county assessment
   
36.02   Tax rate established
   
36.03   Disposition of funds
   
36.04   Due date; penalties
   
36.05   Accounting of funds due city
   
36.06   Bank franchise and local deposit tax
§ 36.01 ELECTION OF COUNTY ASSESSMENT.
   Pursuant to the authority of KRS 132.285, the City Council elects to adopt
and use the annual county assessment for property situated within its corporate
limits as the basis for all its ad valorem property tax levies.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-1-1974)
§ 36.02 TAX RATE ESTABLISHED.
   The tax rate for each year on all real and personal property situated within
the corporate limits of the city, and not exempt by law, shall be as
established by ordinance of City Council.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-1-1974)
§ 36.03 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All revenues derived and collected from ad valorem taxes are to be placed in
the General Fund of the city, and disbursements made from the General Fund
shall be for any purpose that is lawful.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-1-1974)
§ 36.04 DUE DATE; PENALTIES.
   All property taxes, unless indicated on the face of the tax bill, shall
become due and owing on the November 1 of each tax year. All tax bills paid
prior to December 1 of that tax year will be allowed a 2% discount. All tax
bills paid before January 1 of the following year, but after December 1 of the
tax year, shall not accrue any penalties. Any tax bills not paid by January 1
of the next following tax year shall be subject to a delinquency penalty of
10%, plus interest, until paid. If the City Council so elects, it may enforce
collection by all remedies available to it by law.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-1-1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.05 ACCOUNTING OF FUNDS DUE CITY.
   Every person, firm, or corporation collecting or coming into possession of
money that belongs or is designated as money owing to the city shall make an
appropriate accounting thereof to the city.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-1-1974)
§ 36.06 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   There is imposed on all financial institutions, as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.0145% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS 136.500(10), maintained by such financial
institutions.
   (B)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established: The city will issue tax bills to financial
institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be
due with a 2% discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by
January 31 of each year.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject
to the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (D)   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid
before June 30, 1997, for tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January
31 for all subsequent years tax years, shall be deemed delinquent, and shall be
subject to a penalty of 2% and shall bear interest at the rate of 16% per
annum.
   (E)   All monies collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
   (F)   The City Clerk/Treasurer is directed to send a copy of this section to
the Commissioner of the State Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 5-1996, passed - -1996)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions for KRS 136.500 through 136.575, see KRS 136.500(10)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
37.01   Personnel system adopted
§ 37.01 PERSONNEL SYSTEM ADOPTED.
   The Personnel Policies and Procedure Handbook, and any and all amendments,
are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full;
which, shall supersede and replace any prior municipal order(s) or ordinances
inconsistent with the aforesaid Personnel Policies and Procedure Handbook.
(Order 01-2019, passed 6-5-2019; Order 01-2023, passed 1-23-2023; Order 02-
2023, passed 1-23-2023; Order 03-2023, passed 2-27-2023)
CHAPTER 38: ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Discrimination Against Persons with Disabilities
   
38.01   Adoption of grievance procedures
   
38.02   Administration
   
38.03   Amendment
   
38.04   Filing complaint
Established Festivities
   
38.15   Highway 421 Yard Sale
Emergency Preparedness
   
38.30   Cumberland Valley Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
DISCRIMINATION AGAINST PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
§ 38.01 ADOPTION OF GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.
   The procedures in §
38.04 shall be the grievance procedures for anyone who believes he or she has
been discriminated against by the city based on disability status, with respect
to federally-funded programs.
(Ord. 8-1984, passed 11-19-1984)
§ 38.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of the procedures in §
38.04, and related federal and state regulations, shall be the responsibility
of the Mayor.
(Ord. 8-1984, passed 11-19-1984)
§ 38.03 AMENDMENT.
   The procedures in §
38.04 may be amended by ordinance to comply with court directives or additional
federal and state regulations.
(Ord. 8-1984, passed 11-19-1984)
§ 38.04 FILING COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Any person (employee or citizen) who believes that he or she has been
subjected to discrimination, as prohibited by the Federal Revenue Sharing
Program regulations and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 § 504, may personally,
or by a representative, file a complaint with the Mayor. A person who has not
personally been subjected to discrimination may also file a complaint.
   (B)   When any person (citizen, applicant, or employee) who believes he or
she has been adversely affected by an act or decision by the city, and that
such act or decision was based on disability status, shall have the right to
process a complaint or grievance in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   An aggrieved person must submit a written statement to the Mayor,
setting forth the nature of the discrimination alleged and facts upon which the
allegation is based.
      (2)   (a)   The Mayor shall contact the complainant no later than 15 days
after receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting with the
objective of resolving the matter informally.
         (b)   However, in no case shall the informal meeting be conducted
sooner than five days, nor more than 45 days, after receiving the written
statement. There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussions at
the informal meeting, which shall be preserved in the records of the city.
      (3)   Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision has been
made by the Mayor, or the decision of the Mayor does not satisfy the
complainant, he or she may request a hearing with the City Council by
submitting a written request to the city.
      (4)   (a)   In thus discussing the grievance, the complainant may
designate any person of his or her choice to appear with him or her and
participate in the discussion. The City Council shall require the Mayor to
participate in the discussion of the grievance when it is brought before the
City Council.
         (b)   The Mayor shall issue a written decision on the matter within 15
days, and the decision shall be the final procedure for the complainant at the
local level. There shall be prepared a written documentary of the discussion at
the hearing, which shall be preserved in the records of the city.
(Ord. 8-1984, passed 11-19-1984)
ESTABLISHED FESTIVITIES
§ 38.15 HIGHWAY 421 YARD SALE.
   The Highway 421 Yard Sale takes place on the first Thursday, Friday, and
Saturday in May annually; all merchants and residents are encouraged to
participate in the Highway 421 Yard Sale (a community event).
(Proclamation passed 4-3-2014)
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
§ 38.30 CUMBERLAND VALLEY REGIONAL HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The city adopts the Cumberland Valley Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
as the official Hazard Mitigation plan of the city.
   (B)   The city vests the Cumberland Valley area development district with
the responsibility, authority, and the means to:
      (1)   Inform all concerned parties of this action; and
      (2)   Develop an addendum to this Hazard Mitigation Plan if the
jurisdiction’s unique situation warrants such an addendum.
   (C)   The city appoints the Cumberland Valley Regional Mitigation Council to
assure the Hazard Mitigation Plan is reviewed according to the plan maintenance
procedures in § 3.5 of the plan, and that any need adjustment to the plan be
developed and presented to the county’s Local Mitigation Committee, and to the
city, for consideration.
   (D)   The city agrees to consider any other official actions as may be
reasonably necessary to carry out the objectives of the Cumberland Valley
Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan of the city.
(Res. passed 1-17-2005; Res. 01, passed 2-18-2013)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITY ADMINISTRATION
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER
      
52.   SEWER USE
      
53.   WATER SHORTAGES
      
54.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITY ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
50.01   Utility Maintenance Director
   
50.02   Water Superintendent
   
50.03   Water Plant Operator Class I
   
50.04   Water Plant Operator Class II
   
50.05   Water Plant Operator Class III
   
50.06   Water Plant Operator-in-Training
   
50.07   Sewer Superintendent
   
50.08   Sewer Plant Operator Class I
   
50.09   Sewer Plant Operator Class II
   
50.10   Sewer Plant Operator-in-Training
§ 50.01 UTILITY MAINTENANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. Under general direction from the Mayor and
other relevant department heads, the Utility Maintenance Director maintains the
city’s water distribution and sewer collection infrastructure. Under general
supervision, he or she performs unskilled and semi-skilled duties necessary for
the provision of city services, and performs related work as required.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Maintains the city’s water distribution system and wastewater
collection system in compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations;
      (2)   Installs/repairs water distribution and wastewater collection
lines;
      (3)   Conducts or supervises required testing and prepares/submits
accurate reports to appropriate regulatory agencies;
      (4)   Makes needed repairs and performs preventive maintenance;
      (5)   Installs and/or repairs water meters;
      (6)   Ensures necessary supplies are available;
      (7)   Maintains accurate and complete records;
      (8)   Performs routine clerical tasks associated with job
responsibilities; and
      (9)   Performs other related duties as required.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Utility Maintenance Director must have a high
school diploma or GED equivalent; possess and maintain a valid state driver’s
license; be able to read, write, and speak English; and be able to pass a pre-
employment background check and drug screening.
   (D)   Typical working conditions. Work is typically performed outdoors. The
Utility Maintenance Director is required to perform strenuous duties under any
weather conditions, and must possess excellent manual dexterity and be able to
perform heavy manual labor for extended periods of time; additionally,
occasional office work may be necessary.
(Order 16-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 50.02 WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. The Water Superintendent is responsible for
the supervision of all water plant employees and the operation of the water
plant.
      (1)   The Water Superintendent is also responsible for a variety of
construction and maintenance equipment and for performing manual activities as
needed and/or required by the Public Works Department.
      (2)   Workers in this position may be utilized in other departments as
needed. This position requires that the superintendent follow all regulations
and laws pertaining to the operation of the water plant and water distribution
system. The Water Superintendent shall ensure that forms and records are
entered and submitted in a timely and accurate manner, and shall follow and
enforce all parts of the city’s personnel policy.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Prepares daily and monthly report of operations and related
records, and ensures compliance with all state and federal reporting
requirements;
      (2)   Works with the Mayor in the development and implementation of
Departmental policies, goals, objectives, procedures, and priorities for the
water treatment plant;
      (3)   Assesses and monitors work load and internal reporting
relationships; identifies opportunities for improvement; and directs and
implements changes;
      (4)   Plans, directs, and coordinates the Department’s work plan; assigns
projects and programmatic areas of responsibility; reviews and evaluates work
methods and procedures; and meets with appropriate staff to identify and
resolve problems;
      (5)   Focuses on water loss and improved efficiency;
      (6)   Assists with the development the Department budget, and reviews and
helps determine a forecast of funds needed for equipment, materials, and
supplies;
      (7)   Remains responsible for scheduling and supervising plant operators,
the building and grounds maintenance at the plant, and maintaining distribution
lines; and
      (8)   Will perform any other related duty as required or assigned.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Water Superintendent must have a high school
diploma or GED equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent English;
have demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the office;
possess and maintain a valid state driver’s license; possess and maintain a
Class III water treatment plant operator’s license issued by the commonwealth
and a water distribution license; and be able to pass a pre-employment
background check and drug screening.
   (D)   Abilities. The Water Superintendent shall have the ability to detect
mechanical flaws and make minor repairs to plant and equipment; assist with
maintaining preventive maintenance and servicing program; prepare and maintain
accurate reports; assist with maintaining inventory of chemicals, spare parts,
and tools; establish and maintain effective working relationships with
officers, other employees, and the general public; and the physical ability to
perform heavy labor for extended periods of time, often under adverse weather
conditions.
   (E)   Typical working conditions. The Water Superintendent may be required
to work in extreme weather conditions such as: high temperatures; cold
temperatures; rain and storm conditions; snow; and ice. The Water
Superintendent may be required to lift heavy items or work in confined spaces.
The job may also require long periods of standing, bending, walking or
climbing. The Water Superintendent may be scheduled or called to work at times
other than his or her normal shift.
   (F)   Disclaimers.
      (1)   The preceding job description has been designed to indicate the
general nature and essential duties and responsibilities of work performed by
employees within this classification. It may not contain a comprehensive
inventory of all duties, responsibilities, and qualifications required of
employees to do this job.
      (2)   The city is an equal opportunity employer. It is the city’s policy
to afford equal employment opportunity to all qualified persons regardless of
race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national
origin, disability, veteran or family status, an individual’s status as a
smoker or nonsmoker, genetic makeup, or any other status or condition protected
by applicable local, state, or federal laws, except where a bona fide
occupational qualification applies.
      (3)   Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with
disabilities to perform the essential functions of the position. To request an
accommodation, contact the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (4)   This position is at-will and nothing contained in this job
description is intended to, nor does it, create a contract of employment for
any specific duration.
(Order 7-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 50.03 WATER PLANT OPERATOR CLASS I.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. Under general supervision, the Water Plant
Operator Class I assists in the daily operation and maintenance of the water
plant involving the collection of water, and performs related work as required.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Assists in the daily operation and maintenance of the water plant,
including startup and/or shut-down of plant and equipment, involving collection
of water in compliance with established procedures and standards and federal
and state laws and administrative regulations;
      (2)   Assists with inspection and/or monitoring of pumps, charts, gauges,
and meters daily;
      (3)   Adds chemicals in accordance with prescribed standards; assists lab
personnel in collection of water samples; checks proper adjustment of feeder
equipment; adjusts chemicals as necessary;
      (4)   Prepares and maintains accurate reports/records;
      (5)   Forwards water samples and reports as required;
      (6)   Assists with performing servicing and preventives maintenance
programs on plant and equipment; makes minor repairs and/or adjustments on
plant and equipment; forwards requests for major repairs and/or equipment to
superiors;
      (7)   Assists with maintaining adequate inventory of spare parts,
chemicals, equipment, and tools;
      (8)   Assists with minor construction projects;
      (9)   Assists with cleaning of plant and grounds; and
      (10)   Will perform any other related duty as required or assigned.
   (C)    Qualifications. The Water Plant Operator Class I must have a high
school diploma or GED equivalent; must be able to read, write, and speak fluent
English; have demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the
office; possess and maintain a valid state’s driver’s license; possess and
maintain a Class I water license issued by the commonwealth; and be able to
pass a pre-employment background check and drug screening.
   (D)   Knowledge. The Water Plant Operator Class I shall have working
knowledge of: water plant operations; federal and state laws and administrative
regulations with reference to water treatment; functions, servicing, and
maintenance requirements of mechanical equipment and machinery; math and
chemistry; computer hardware and applicable software programs; and knowledge
of, and ability to, comply with safety standards.
   (E)   Abilities. The Water Plant Operator Class I shall have the ability to
detect mechanical flaws and make minor equipment; assist with maintaining
preventive maintenance; prepare and maintain accurate reports; assist with
maintaining inventory of chemicals, spare parts and tools; establish and
maintain effective working relationships with officers, other employees, and
the general public; and the physical ability to perform heavy labor for
extended periods of time, often under adverse weather conditions.
   (F)   Typical working conditions.
      (1)   Work requires sitting at desk with intermittent standing, walking,
stooping. The Water Operator Class I must lift objects over 50 pounds; must
operate vehicles and equipment; and is required to be in high places and
confined spaces, and use stairs and ladders.
      (2)   He or she may be exposed to fumes, chemicals, and toxic substances,
and some work is performed outdoors, regardless of weather conditions.
      (3)   Typical tools, equipment, and vehicles used by the Water Plant
Operator Class I include: construction and/or mechanical tools and equipment
(e.g., hand tools, power tools, and the like); laboratory equipment, normal
office equipment (e.g., phones, computers, calculators, and the like); chemical
feeders; safety equipment; and vehicles.
      (4)   He or she has occasional contact with the public and employees or
supervisors from other departments. There is what is considered to be little
use of confidential information, and the mental effort required by this
position is considered to be moderate to heavy; the job has frequent
interruptions.
      (5)   The Water Plant Operator Class I must be able to respond to calls
in emergency situations at all hours; overtime is considered nonexempt.
   (G)   Additional information.
      (1)   Instructions are detailed and specific, covering all aspects of the
work; instructions are more general after the Water Plant Operator Class I
learns each job.
      (2)   Work varies slightly, and the Water Plant Operator Class I is
seldom required to take different, new, or unusual approaches in completing
work assignments; problems require analysis based on precedent.
      (3)   Most completed work is reviewed until the Water Plant Operator
Class I learns each job.
(Order 9-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 50.04 WATER PLANT OPERATOR CLASS II.
   The comprehensive personnel manual of the city is hereby amended to add two
water plant operators, as described in this section and §
50.06 below. The compensation plan and authorized positions are amended to
include two positions in the class of Water Plant Operator.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. Under general direction, the Water Plant
Operator Class II assists in the daily operation and maintenance of the water
plant involving the collection of water; he or she may supervise plant
operators in lower classes in the absence of higher authority, and performs
related work as required.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Assists in the daily operation and maintenance of the water plant,
including startup and/or shut-down of the plant and equipment, involving
collection of water in compliance with established procedures and standards and
federal and state laws and administrative regulations;
      (2)   Assists with inspection and/or monitoring of pumps, charts, gauges,
and meters daily;
      (3)   Adds chemicals in accordance with prescribed collection of water
samples; checks proper adjustment of feeder equipment; adjusts chemicals as
necessary;
      (4)   Prepares and maintains accurate reports/records;
      (5)   Forwards water samples and reports as required;
      (6)   Assists with performing servicing and preventive maintenance
programs on plant and equipment; makes minor repairs and/or adjustments on
plant and/or equipment; forwards requests for major repairs and/or equipment to
superiors;
      (7)   Assists with maintaining adequate inventory of spare parts,
chemicals, equipment, and tools;
      (8)   Assists with minor construction projects;
      (9)   Assists with cleaning of plant and grounds;
      (10)   Attends continuing education classes;
      (11)   Accepts complains and attends to their disposition; and
      (12)   Will perform any other related duty as required or assigned.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Water Plant Operator Class II must have a high
school diploma or GED equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent
English; have demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the
office; possess and maintain a valid state driver’s license; possess and
maintain a Class II water treatment plant operator’s license issued by the
commonwealth; and be able to pass a pre-employment background check and drug
screening.
   (D)   Knowledge. The Water Plant Operator Class II shall have working
knowledge of: water plant operations; federal and state laws and administrative
regulations with reference to water treatment; functions, servicing, and
maintenance requirements of mechanical equipment and machinery; math and
chemistry; computer hardware and applicable software programs; and knowledge
of, and ability to, comply with safety standards.
   (E)   Abilities. The Water Plant Operator Class II shall have the ability to
detect mechanical flaws and make minor repairs to plant and equipment; assist
with maintaining preventive maintenance and servicing program; prepare and
maintain accurate reports; assist with maintaining inventory of chemicals,
spare parts and tools; establish and maintain effective working relationships
with officers, other employees, and the general public; and the physical
ability to perform heavy labor for extended periods of time, often under
adverse weather conditions.
   (F)   Typical working conditions.
      (1)   Work requires sitting at a desk with intermittent standing,
walking, and stooping. The Water Plant Operator Class II must lift objects over
50 pounds; operate vehicles and equipment; and is required to be in high places
and confined spaces, and use stairs and ladders.
      (2)   Some work is performed outdoors, regardless of weather conditions,
and the Water Plant Operator Class II may be exposed to fumes, chemicals, and
toxic substances.
      (3)   Tools, equipment, and vehicles used by the Water Plant Operator
Class II include: construction and/or mechanical tools and equipment (e.g.,
hand tools, power tools, and the like); laboratory equipment; normal office
equipment (phones, computers, calculators, and the like); chemical feeders;
safety equipment; and vehicles.
      (4)   He or she has both public and internal contacts. There is what is
considered to be little to no use of confidential information, and the mental
effort required by this position is considered to be moderate to heavy; the job
has frequent interruptions.
      (5)   The Water Plant Operator Class II must be able to respond to calls
in emergency situations at all hours.
   (G)   Additional information.
      (1)   Instructions are somewhat general; many aspects of work are covered
specifically, but the Water Plant Operator Class II must use some of his or her
own judgment.
      (2)   He or she must occasionally consider different courses of action,
or deviate from standard operating procedures, to get the job done.   
      (3)   Assignments frequently involve decisions based on a wide knowledge
of many factors where applications of advances or technical concepts are
required.
      (4)   Completed work is spot-checked.
(Ord. passed 12-21-2015; Order 10-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 50.05 WATER PLANT OPERATOR CLASS III.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. Under general direction, the Water Plant
Operator Class III assists in the daily operation and maintenance of the water
plant involving the collection of water; assumes responsible charge of the
plant in the absence of a higher authority; may supervise other plant operators
in the absence of higher authority; and performs related work as required.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities:
      (1)   Assists in the daily operation and maintenance of the water plant,
including startup and/or shut-down of plant and equipment, involving collection
of water in compliance with established procedures and standards and federal
and state laws and administrative regulations;
      (2)   Assists with inspection and/or monitoring of pumps, charts, gauges,
and meters daily;
      (3)   Adds chemicals in accordance with prescribed standards; assists lab
personal in the collection of collection of water samples; checks proper
adjustment of feeder equipment; adjusts chemicals as necessary;
      (4)   Prepares and maintains accurate reports/records;
      (5)   Forwards water samples and reports as required;
      (6)   Assists with performing, servicing, and preventive maintenance
programs on plant and equipment; makes minor repairs and/or adjustments on
plant and equipment; forwards requests for major repairs and/or equipment to
superiors;
      (7)   Assists with maintaining adequate inventory of spare parts,
chemicals, equipment, and tools;
      (8)   Assists with minor construction projects;
      (9)   Assists with cleaning of plant and grounds;
      (10)   Attends continuing education classes;
      (11)   Accepts complains and attends to their disposition; and
      (12)   Will perform any other related duty as required or assigned.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Water Plant Operator Class III must have a high
school diploma or GED equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent
English; have demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the
office; possess and maintain a valid state driver’s license; possess and
maintain a Class III water treatment plant operator’s license issued by the
commonwealth; and be able to pass a pre-employment background check and drug
screening. Additionally, within 18 months of meeting the experience
requirements, operators in this position are required to obtain a Class IV
license.
   (D)   Knowledge. The Water Plant Operator Class III shall have thorough
knowledge of: water plant operations; federal, state, and local laws and
administrative regulations that reference water treatment; functions and
servicing/maintenance requirements of mechanical equipment and machinery; math
and chemistry; computer hardware and applicable software programs; and thorough
knowledge of, and ability to, ensure compliance with safety requirements.
   (E)   Abilities. The Water Plant Operator Class III shall have the ability
to detect mechanical flaws and make minor repairs to plant and equipment;
assist with maintaining preventive maintenance and servicing program; prepare
and maintain accurate reports; assist with maintaining inventory of chemicals,
spare parts, and tools; establish and maintain effective working relationships
with officers, other employees, and the general public; and the physical
ability to perform heavy labor for extended periods of time, often under
adverse weather conditions.
   (F)   Typical working conditions.
      (1)   Work requires sitting at a desk with intermittent standing,
walking, and stooping. The Water Plant Operator Class III must lift objects
over 50 pounds; operate vehicles and equipment; and is required to be in high
places and confined spaces, and use stairs and ladders. Some work is performed
outdoors, regardless of weather conditions, and the Water Plant Operator Class
III may be exposed to fumes, chemicals, and toxic substances.
      (2)   Tools, equipment, and vehicles used by the Water Plant Operator
Class III include: construction and/or mechanical tools and equipment (e.g.,
hand tools, power tools, and the like); laboratory equipment; normal office
equipment (phones, computers, calculators, and the like); chemical feeders;
safety equipment; and vehicles.
      (3)   He or she has both public and internal contacts. There is what is
considered to be little to no use of confidential information, and the mental
effort required by this position is considered to be moderate to heavy; the job
has frequent interruptions. The Water Plant Operator Class III must be able to
respond to calls in emergency situations at all hours.
   (G)   Additional information.
      (1)   Instructions are somewhat general; many aspects of work are covered
specifically, but the Water Plant Operator Class III must use some of his or
her own judgment.
      (2)   He or she must occasionally consider different courses of action,
or deviate from standard operating procedures, to get the job done.   
      (3)   Assignments frequently involve decisions based on a wide knowledge
of many factors where applications of advances or technical concepts are
required.
      (4)   Completed work is spot-checked.
(Order 11-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 50.06 WATER PLANT OPERATOR-IN-TRAINING.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. Under general supervision, the Water Plant
Operator-in-Training (OiT) assists in the daily operation and maintenance of
the water plant involving the collection of water, and performs related work as
required.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Assists in the daily operation and maintenance of the water plant,
including startup and/or shut-down of plant and equipment, involving collection
of water in compliance with established procedures and standards and federal
and state laws and administrative regulations;
      (2)   Assists with inspection and/or monitoring of pumps, charts, gauges,
and meters daily;
      (3)   Adds chemicals in accordance with prescribed collection of water
samples; checks proper adjustment of feeder equipment; and adjusts chemicals as
necessary;
      (4)   Prepares and maintains accurate reports/records;
      (5)   Forwards water samples and reports as required;
      (6)   Assists with performing servicing and preventive maintenance
programs on plant and equipment; makes minor repairs and/or adjustments on
plant and equipment; and forwards requests for major repairs and/or equipment
to superiors;
      (7)   Assists with maintaining adequate inventory of spare parts,
chemicals, equipment, and tools;
      (8)   Assists with minor construction projects;
      (9)   Assists with cleaning of plant and grounds; and
      (10)   Will perform any other related duty as required or assigned.
   (C)    Qualifications. The Water Plant Operator-in-Training must have a high
school diploma or GED equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent
English; have demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the
office; possess and maintain a valid state driver’s license; and be able to
pass a pre-employment background check and drug screening. Additionally, within
18 months after meeting the experience required by each level, employees in
this position must obtain a water treatment operator’s license issued by the
commonwealth up to, and including, Class III.
   (D)   Knowledge. The Water Plant Operator-in-Training shall have working
knowledge of, or the ability to learn: water plant operations; federal and
state laws and administrative regulations with reference to water treatment;
functions, servicing, and maintenance requirements of mechanical equipment and
machinery; math and chemistry; computer hardware and applicable software
programs; and knowledge of, and ability to, comply with safety standards.
   (E)   Abilities. The Water Plant Operator-in-Training shall have the ability
to detect mechanical flaws and make minor repairs to plant and equipment;
assist with maintaining preventive maintenance and servicing program; prepare
and maintain accurate reports; assist with maintaining inventory of chemicals,
spare parts, and tools; establish and maintain effective working relationships
with officers, other employees, and the general public; and the physical
ability to perform heavy labor for extended periods of time, often under
adverse weather conditions.
   (F)   Typical working conditions.
      (1)   Work requires sitting at a desk with intermittent standing,
walking, and stooping. The Water Plant Operator-in-Training must lift objects
over 50 pounds; operate vehicles and equipment; and is required to be in high
places and confined spaces, and use stairs and ladders. Some work is performed
outdoors, regardless of weather conditions, and the Water Plant Operator-in-
Training may be exposed to fumes, chemicals, and toxic substances.
      (2)   Tools, equipment, and vehicles used by the Water Plant Operator-in-
Training include: construction and/or mechanical tools and equipment (e.g.,
hand tools, power tools, and the like); laboratory equipment; normal office
equipment (phones, computers, calculators, and the like); computerized chemical
feeders; safety equipment; and vehicles.
      (3)   He or she has occasional contact with the public and employees or
supervisors from other departments. There is what is considered to be little to
no use of confidential information, and the mental effort required by this
position is considered to be moderate to heavy; the job has frequent
interruptions. The Water Plant Operator-in-Training must be able to respond to
calls in emergency situations at all hours.
(Order 8-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 50.07 SEWER SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. The Sewer/Wastewater Plant Superintendent is
responsible for the supervision of all sewer plant employees and the operation
of the sewer plant. The Sewer Superintendent is also responsible for a variety
of construction and maintenance equipment, and for performing manual activities
as needed and/or required by the Public Works Department. Workers in this
position may be utilized in other departments as needed. This position requires
that the Sewer Superintendent follow all regulations and laws pertaining to the
operation of the sewer plant and sewer collection system, and ensures that
forms and records are entered and submitted in a timely and accurate manner.
The Sewer Superintendent shall follow and enforce all parts of the city
personnel policy.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities:
      (1)   Prepares daily and monthly report of operations and related
records, and ensures compliance with all state and federal reporting
requirements;
      (2)   Works with the Mayor in the development and implementation of
Departmental policies, goals, objectives, procedures, and priorities for the
water treatment plant;
      (3)   Assesses and monitors work load and internal reporting
relationships; identifies opportunities for improvement; and directs and
implements changes;
      (4)   Plans, directs, and coordinates the Department’s work plan; assigns
projects and programmatic areas of responsibility; reviews and evaluates work
methods and procedures; and meets with appropriate staff to identify and
resolve problems;
      (5)   Focuses on water loss and improved efficiency;
      (6)   Assists with the development the Department budget; reviews and
help determine a forecast of funds needed for equipment, materials, and
supplies;
      (7)   Remains responsible for scheduling and supervising plant operators;
      (8)   Remains responsible for building and grounds maintenance at the
plant;
      (9)   Remains responsible for maintaining collection lines; and
      (10)   Will perform any other related duty as required or assigned.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Sewer Superintendent must have a high school
diploma or GED equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent English;
have demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the office;
possess and maintain a valid state driver’s license; possess and maintain a
Class II wastewater treatment plant operator’s license issued by the
commonwealth, and a wastewater collection license; and be able to pass a pre-
employment background check and drug screening.
   (D)   Abilities. The Sewer Superintendent shall have the ability to detect
mechanical flaws and make minor repairs to the plant and equipment; assist with
maintaining preventative maintenance and servicing programs; prepare and
maintain accurate reports; assist with maintaining inventory of chemicals,
spare parts, and tools; establish and maintain effective working relationships
with officers, other employees, and the general public; and the physical
ability to perform heavy labor for extended periods of time, often under
adverse weather conditions.
   (E)   Typical working conditions. The Sewer Superintendent may be required
to work in extreme weather conditions such as: high temperatures; cold
temperatures; rain and storm conditions; snow; and ice. He or she may be
required to lift heavy items, work in confined spaces, and be required to
perform long periods of standing, bending, walking, or climbing. The Sewer
Superintendent may be scheduled or called to work at times other than his or
her scheduled shift.
   (F)   Disclaimers.
      (1)   The preceding job description has been designed to indicate the
general nature and essential duties and responsibilities of work performed by
employees within this classification. It may not contain a comprehensive
inventory of all duties, responsibilities, and qualifications required of
employees to do this job.
      (2)   The city is an equal opportunity employer. It is the city’s policy
to afford equal employment opportunity to all qualified persons regardless of
race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national
origin, disability, veteran or family status, an individual’s status as a
smoker or nonsmoker, genetic makeup, or any other status or condition protected
by applicable local, state, or federal laws, except where a bona fide
occupational qualification applies.
      (3)   Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with
disabilities to perform the essential functions of the position. To request an
accommodation, contact the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (4)   This position is at-will and nothing contained in this job
description is intended to, nor does it, create a contract of employment for
any specific duration.
(Order 12-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 50.08 SEWER PLANT OPERATOR CLASS I.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. Under general supervision, the Sewer Plant
Operator Class I assists in the daily operation and maintenance of the water
plant involving the collection of water, and performs related work as required.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Assists in the daily operation and maintenance of the water plant,
including startup and/or shut-down of plant and equipment, involving collection
of water in compliance with established procedures and standards and federal
and state laws and administrative regulations;
      (2)   Assists with inspection and/or monitoring of pumps, charts, gauges,
and meters daily;
      (3)   Adds chemicals in accordance with prescribed standards; assists lab
personnel in the collection of water samples; checks proper adjustment of
feeder equipment; and adjusts chemicals as necessary;
      (4)   Prepares and maintains accurate reports/records;
      (5)   Forwards water samples and reports as required;
      (6)   Assists with performing servicing and preventive maintenance
programs on plant and equipment; makes minor repairs and/or adjustments on
plant and equipment; and forwards requests for major repairs and/or equipment
to superiors;
      (7)   Assists with maintaining adequate inventory of spare parts,
chemicals, equipment, and tools;
      (8)   Assists with minor construction projects;
      (9)   Assists with cleaning of plant and grounds; and
      (10)   Will perform any other related duty as required or assigned.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Sewer Plant Operator Class I must have a high
school diploma or GED equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent
English; have demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the
office; possess and maintain a valid state driver’s license; possess and
maintain a Class I wastewater treatment plant operator’s license issued by the
commonwealth; and be able to pass a pre-employment background check and drug
screening. Additionally, within 18 months after meeting the required experience
of each level, the employee must obtain a wastewater treatment plant operator’s
license issued by the commonwealth up to, and including, Class II.
   (D)   Knowledge. The Sewer Plant Operator Class I shall have working
knowledge of: wastewater plant operations; federal and state laws and
administrative regulations with reference to wastewater treatment; functions,
servicing, and maintenance requirements of mechanical equipment and machinery;
math and chemistry; computer hardware and applicable software programs; and
knowledge of, and ability to, comply with safety standards.
   (E)   Abilities. The Sewer Plant Operator Class I shall have the ability to
detect mechanical flaws and make minor repairs to plant and equipment; assist
with maintaining preventive maintenance and servicing programs; prepare and
maintain accurate reports; assist with maintaining inventory of chemicals,
spare parts, and tools; establish and maintain effective working relationships
with officers, employees, and the general public; and the physical ability to
perform heavy labor for extended periods of time, often under adverse weather
conditions.
   (F)   Typical working conditions. Work requires sitting at desk with
intermittent standing, walking, stooping. The Sewer Plant Operator Class I must
lift objects over 50 pounds; must operate vehicles and equipment; and is
required to be in high places and confined spaces, and use stairs and ladders.
He or she may be exposed to fumes, chemicals, toxic substances, and machinery
and its moving parts, and work is performed outdoors, regardless of weather
conditions.
      (1)   Typical tools, equipment, and vehicles used by the Sewer Plant
Operator Class I include: construction and/or mechanical tools and equipment
(e.g., hand tools, power tools, and the like); laboratory equipment, normal
office equipment (e.g., phones, computers, calculators, and the like); chemical
feeders; safety equipment; and vehicles.
      (2)   He or she has occasional contact with the public and employees or
supervisors from other departments. There is what is considered to be little to
no use of confidential information, and the mental effort required by this
position is considered to be moderate to heavy; the job has frequent
interruptions. The Water Plant Operator Class I must be able to work weekends
and/or afternoons, respond to calls in emergency situations at all hours, and
be willing to provide an emergency phone contact number.
   (G)   Additional information.
      (1)   Instructions are somewhat detailed and specific, covering all
aspects of work; instructions are more general after the Sewer Plant Operator
Class I learns each job.
      (2)   Work varies slightly and the Sewer Plant Operator Class I may
seldom be required to take different, new, or unusual approaches in completing
work assignments; problems may require analysis based on precedent.
      (3)   Most completed work is reviewed until the employee learns each job.
(Order 14-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 50.09 SEWER PLANT OPERATOR CLASS II.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. Under general direction, the Sewer Plant
Operator Class II assists with maintenance of the sewer plant, including the
water plant’s treatment of wastewater; he or she may supervise plant operators
of higher authority, and perform related work as required.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Assists in the daily operation and maintenance of the water plant,
including startup and/or shut-down of plant and equipment, involving the
collection and distribution of wastewater in compliance with established
procedures and standards and federal and state laws and administrative
regulations;
      (2)   Inspects and/or monitors pumps, charts, gauges, and meters daily;
      (3)   Adds chemicals in accordance with prescribed standards; may assist
lab personnel in the collection of water samples;
      (4)   Cleans filters and disposes of residual solids;
      (5)   Checks lift stations and maintains lift stations in accordance with
established standards;
      (6)   Prepares and maintains accurate reports/records;
      (7)   Ensures that wastewater samples and reports are forwarded as
required;
      (8)   Ensures that servicing and preventive maintenance programs on the
plant and equipment are followed; makes minor repairs and/or adjustments on
plant and equipment; and forwards requests for major repairs and/or equipment
to superiors;
      (9)   Ensures adequate inventory of spare parts, chemicals, equipment,
and tools;
      (10)   Assists with cleaning of plant and grounds;
      (11)   Attends continuing education classes; and
      (12)   Will perform any other related duty as required or assigned.
   (C)   Qualifications. The Sewer Plant Operator Class II must have a high
school diploma or GED equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent
English; have demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the
office; possess and maintain a valid state driver’s license; possess and
maintain a Class II wastewater treatment plant operator’s license issued by the
commonwealth; and be able to pass a pre-employment background check and drug
screening.
   (D)   Knowledge. The Sewer Plant Operator Class II shall have working
knowledge of: wastewater plant operations; federal and state laws and
administrative regulations with reference to wastewater treatment; functions,
servicing, and maintenance requirements of mechanical equipment and machinery;
math and chemistry; and computer hardware and applicable software programs.
   (E)   Abilities. The Sewer Plant Operator Class II shall have the ability to
detect mechanical flaws and make minor repairs to plant and equipment; assist
with maintaining preventive maintenance and servicing programs; prepare and
maintain accurate reports; assist with maintaining inventory of chemicals,
spare parts, and tools; establish and maintain effective working relationships
with officers, employees, and the general public; and the physical ability to
perform heavy labor for extended periods of time, often under adverse weather
conditions.
   (F)   Typical working conditions.
      (1)   Work requires sitting at desk with intermittent standing, walking,
stooping. The Sewer Plant Operator Class II must lift objects over 50 pounds;
must operate vehicles and equipment; and is required to be in high places and
confined spaces, and use stairs and ladders.
      (2)   He or she may be exposed to fumes, chemicals, toxic substances, and
machinery and its moving parts, and work is performed outdoors, regardless of
weather conditions.
      (3)   Typical tools, equipment, and vehicles used by the Sewer Plant
Operator Class II include: construction and/or mechanical tools and equipment
(e.g., hand tools, power tools, and the like); laboratory equipment, normal
office equipment (e.g., phones, computers, calculators, and the like); chemical
feeders; safety equipment; and vehicles.
      (4)   He or she has occasional contact with the public and employees or
supervisors from other departments. There is what is considered to be little to
no use of confidential information, and the mental effort required by this
position is considered to be moderate to heavy; the job has frequent
interruptions.
      (5)   The Water Plant Operator Class II must be able to work weekends
and/or afternoons, respond to calls in emergency situations at all hours, and
be willing to provide an emergency phone contact number.
   (G)   Additional information.
      (1)   Instructions are somewhat detailed and specific, covering all
aspects of work; instructions are more general after the Sewer Plant Operator
Class II learns each job.
      (2)   Work varies slightly and the Sewer Plant Operator Class II may
seldom be required to take different, new, or unusual approaches in completing
work assignments; problems may require analysis based on precedent.
      (4)   Most completed work is reviewed until the employee learns each job.
   (H)   Disclaimers.
      (1)   The preceding job description has been designed to indicate the
general nature and essential duties and responsibilities of work performed by
employees within this classification. It may not contain a comprehensive
inventory of all duties, responsibilities, and qualifications required of
employees to do this job.
      (2)   The city is an equal opportunity employer. It is the city’s policy
to afford equal employment opportunity to all qualified persons regardless of
race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national
origin, disability, veteran or family status, an individual’s status as a
smoker or nonsmoker, genetic makeup, or any other status or condition protected
by applicable local, state, or federal laws, except where a bona fide
occupational qualification applies.
      (3)   Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with
disabilities to perform the essential functions of the position. To request an
accommodation, contact the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (4)   This position is at-will and nothing contained in this job
description is intended to, nor does it, create a contract of employment for
any specific duration.
(Order 15-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
§ 50.10 SEWER PLANT OPERATOR-IN-TRAINING.
   (A)   Primary responsibility. Under general supervision, the Sewer Plant
Operator-in-Training (OiT) assists in the daily operation and maintenance of
the wastewater plant, involving the collection and treatment of wastewater and
performs related work as required.
   (B)   Essential job-related responsibilities.
      (1)   Assists in the daily operation and maintenance of the wastewater
plant, including start-up and/or shut-down of plant and equipment, involving
collection and distribution of wastewater in compliance with established
procedures and standards and federal and state laws and administrative
regulations;
      (2)   Assists with inspection and/or monitoring of pumps, charts, gauges,
and meters daily;
      (3)   Adds chemicals in accordance with prescribed standards; assists lab
personnel in collection of wastewater samples; checks proper adjustment of
feeder equipment; and adjusts chemicals as necessary;
      (4)   Cleans filters and disposes of residual solids;
      (5)   Checks lift stations; maintains lift stations in accordance with
established standards;
      (6)   Prepares and maintains accurate reports/records;
      (7)   Forwards wastewater samples and reports as required;
      (8)   Assists with performing servicing and preventive maintenance
programs on plant and equipment; makes minor repairs and/or add equipment;
forwards requests for major repairs and/or equipment to superiors;
      (9)   Assists with maintaining adequate inventory of spare parts,
chemicals, equipment, and tools;
      (10)   Assists with minor construction projects;
      (11)   Assists with cleaning of plant and grounds;
      (12)   Attends continuing education programs;
      (13)   Communicates with supervisor and co-workers on issues including,
but not limited to: safety, training needs, equipment, and task status; and
      (14)   Will perform any other related duty as required.
   (C)    Qualifications. The Sewer Plant Operator-in-Training must have a high
school diploma or GED equivalent; be able to read, write, and speak fluent
English; have demonstrable proficiency in computer programs utilized by the
office; possess and maintain a valid state driver’s license; and be able to
pass a pre-employment background check and drug screening. Additionally, within
18 months after meeting the experience required by each level, employees in
this position must obtain a wastewater treatment operator’s license issued by
the commonwealth up to, and including, Class III.
   (D)   Knowledge. The Sewer Plant Operator-in-Training shall have working
knowledge of, or the ability to learn: wastewater plant operations; federal and
state laws and administrative regulations with reference to wastewater
treatment; functions, servicing, and maintenance requirements of mechanical
equipment and machinery; math and chemistry; computer hardware and applicable
software programs; and the knowledge of, and ability to, comply with safety
standards.
   (E)   Abilities. The Sewer Plant Operator-in-Training shall have the ability
to detect mechanical flaws and make minor repairs to plant and equipment;
assist with maintaining preventive maintenance and servicing programs; prepare
and maintain accurate reports; assist with maintaining inventory of chemicals,
spare parts, and tools; establish and maintain effective working relationships
with officers, employees, and the general public; and the physical ability to
perform heavy labor for extended periods of time, often under adverse weather
conditions.
   (F)   Typical working conditions.
      (1)   Work requires sitting at desk with intermittent standing, walking,
stooping. The Sewer Plant Operator-in-Training must lift objects over 50
pounds; must operate vehicles and equipment; and is required to be in high
places and confined spaces, and use stairs and ladders. He or she may be
exposed to fumes, chemicals, toxic substances, and machinery and its moving
parts, and work is performed outdoors, regardless of weather conditions.
      (2)   Typical tools, equipment, and vehicles used by the Sewer Plant
Operator-in-Training include: construction and/or mechanical tools and
equipment (e.g., hand tools, power tools, and the like); laboratory equipment,
normal office equipment (e.g., phones, computers, calculators, and the like);
chemical feeders; safety equipment; and vehicles.
      (3)   He or she has occasional contact with the public and employees or
supervisors from other departments. There is what is considered to be limited
use of confidential information, and the mental effort required by this
position is considered to be moderate to heavy; the job has frequent
interruptions. The Water Plant Operator-in-Training must be able to work
weekends and/or afternoons, respond to calls in emergency situations at all
hours, and be willing to provide an emergency phone contact number.
   (G)   Additional information.
      (1)   Instructions are initially very specific, but become more general
as the Sewer Plant Operator-in-Training gains work experience in the class.
      (2)   Work varies slightly and the Sewer Plant Operator-in-Training may
seldom be required to take different, new, or unusual approaches in completing
work assignments; problems may require analysis based on precedent.
      (3)   Most or all completed work is reviewed.
(Order 13-2019, passed 6-6-2019)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER
Section
Rates
   
51.01   Monthly water and sewer rates
   
51.02   Connection charges
   
51.03   Rates exclusive of sales tax
   
51.04   Costs of installation and indemnification
   
51.05   Effective dates for water and sewer charges
   
51.06   All customers metered; no free service
   
51.07   Meters read monthly
   
51.08   Deposits
   
51.09   Owners pay connection charges; occupants pay rates
   
51.10   Multiple users
   
51.11   Revision of rates
   
51.12   Special rates
   
51.13   Policy on water leaks and meter checks
   
51.14   Billing; collection; penalties
   
51.15   Delinquencies; disconnection and reconnection; reconnection fee
   
51.16   Records and audits
   
51.17   Water service within the flood plain
Cross-Connection Prevention Program
   
51.30   Purpose and authority
   
51.31   Definitions
   
51.32   Requirements
RATES
§ 51.01 MONTHLY WATER AND SEWER RATES.
   The following rates are hereby adopted by the city for the operation of the
water and sewer utilities. The monthly rates or charges for the use and
services of the combined and consolidated municipal waterworks and sewer
systems of the city are as follows.
   (A)   Water rates.
      (1)   Class I residential (single-family residences on three-fourths of
an inch and one-inch meters):
 
Number of Gallons Used Per Charge Per 1,000 Gallons; Charge Per 1,000 Gallons;
Month                      Inside City               Outside City
Minimum Bill               $18 (minimum)             $21 (minimum)
(First 1,000 or less)
Next 4,000                 $4                        $5
Next 5,000                 $5                        $6
Next 10,000                $6                        $7
All over 20,000            $10                       $12
 
      (2)   Class II residential (multi-family residences on three-fourths of
an inch and one-inch meters):
 
Number of Gallons Used Per Charge Per 1,000 Gallons; Charge Per 1,000 Gallons;
Month                      Inside City               Outside City
Minimum Bill
(First 1,000 or less for   $18 (minimum)             $21 (minimum)
each unit occupied)
Next 4,000                 $4                        $5
Next 5,000                 $5                        $6
Next 10,000                $6                        $7
All over 20,000            $10                       $12
 
      (3)   Class III residential (multi-family residences on two-inch and
three-inch meters):
 
Number of Gallons Used Per Charge Per 1,000 Gallons; Charge Per 1,000 Gallons;
Month                      Inside City               Outside City
Minimum Bill
(First 1,000 or less for   $18 (minimum)             $21 (minimum)
each unit available)
Next 4,000                 $4                        $5
Next 5,000                 $5                        $6
Next 10,000                $6                        $7
All over 20,000            $10                       $12
 
      (4)   Class IV commercial (three-fourths of an inch and one-inch meters):
 
Number of Gallons Used Per Charge Per 1,000 Gallons; Charge Per 1,000 Gallons;
Month                      Inside City               Outside City
Minimum Bill
(First 1,000 or less for   $18 (minimum)             $21 (minimum)
each unit occupied)
Next 4,000                 $4                        $5
Next 5,000                 $5                        $6
Next 10,000                $6                        $7
All over 20,000            $10                       $12
 
      (5)   Class V commercial (two-inch and three-inch meters):
 
Number of Gallons Used Per Charge Per 1,000 Gallons; Charge Per 1,000 Gallons;
Month                      Inside City               Outside City
Minimum Bill
(First 1,000 or less for   $18 (minimum)             $21 (minimum)
each unit available)
Next 4,000                 $4                        $5
Next 5,000                 $5                        $6
Next 10,000                $6                        $7
All over 20,000            $10                       $12
 
   (B)   Sewer rates.
      (1)   Class I (three-fourths of an inch and one-inch meters):
 
Number of Gallons Used Per Charge Per 1,000 Gallons; Charge Per 1,000 Gallons;
Month                      Inside City               Outside City
Minimum Bill
(First 1,000 or less for   $20 (minimum)             $25 (minimum)
each unit available)
Next 4,000                 $4.69                     $5.86
Next 5,000                 $3.75                     $4.69
Next 10,000                $3.25                     $4.06
All over 20,000            $2.63                     $3.29
 
      (2)   Class II (two-inch and three-inch meters):
 
Number of Gallons Used Per Charge Per 1,000 Gallons; Charge Per 1,000 Gallons;
Month                      Inside City               Outside City
Minimum Bill
(First 1,000 or less for   $18 (minimum)             $21 (minimum)
each unit occupied)
Next 4,000                 $4.69                     $5.86
Next 5,000                 $3.75                     $4.69
Next 10,000                $3.25                     $4.06
All over 20,000            $2.63                     $3.29
 
      (3)   There is to be a surcharge on all two-inch and three-inch meters.
This will be $100 for each 10,000 gallons metered per 10,000 gallons. Water
usage only not sewer.
      (4)   The monthly service statement shall be due and owing upon the
receipt by the customer. If not paid by the twentieth day of the month, a 10%
penalty will be imposed.
   (C)   All classes. The monthly customer charges shall be based on usage of
100-gallon increments, beginning with the minimum bill.
      (1)   Additional charges:
Type of Service Cost
Type of Service                                                         Cost
Deposit                                                                 $150
Turn on water                                                           $25
Disconnect                                                              $25
Reconnect                                                               $25
Set water meter                                                         $600
Returned check fee                                                      $25
Sewer tap                                                               $400
New tie on pressure sewer pump station for dwelling                     $6,000
Two-inch and three-inch meter installation tapping fee, plus cost of    $500
materials
Three-fourths of an inch and one- inch meter; furnish 50-foot line, and $1,500
landowner pays for any additional line
 
      (2)   Any damage to any part of the city’s utilities will be the
responsibility of the person, company, or entity that caused the damage.
      (3)   There is to be a 3% annual increase in water and sewer rates; this
can be changed by ordinance.
(Ord. 5-09, passed 11-9-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Waterworks connection charges. The customer shall pay a connection
charge of $600 for a standard three-fourths of an inch by five-eighths of an
inch meter. (This is not refundable to the customer. This is the actual cost of
installing the meter.)
      (1)   Larger meters, one to two inches or above, will cost according to
the size and the amount of work to be performed by the municipality.
      (2)   The water company will only run 50 feet of three-fourths of an inch
line to the customer’s property. If the line runs over 50 feet, then the
customer must bear the excess cost.
   (B)   Sewer connection charges. Customers connecting to the municipal sewer
system shall pay a connection fee of $400 for each residence. The customer
connecting to the sewer must bear all costs of installing the line or lines
from his or her building, or buildings, to the sewer main including tapping the
main.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964; Ord. passed 8-1-1976; Ord. passed 10-20-1977; Ord.
passed 8-6-1979; Ord. passed 2-11-1980; Ord. 2-1988, passed 5-16-1988)
§ 51.03 RATES EXCLUSIVE OF SALES TAX.
   The foregoing rates are rates to be charged by the city, and any applicable
state sales tax shall be added to each bill as a separate charge.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964)
§ 51.04 COSTS OF INSTALLATION AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of water
and sewer lines from the buildings on the respective premises to the points
where the respective lines are brought to serve such premises shall be borne by
the respective property owners, and the property owners shall further indemnify
the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of such lines. All water and sewer connections shall be
made under the supervision of the Water Superintendent and Sewer
Superintendent.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964)
§ 51.05 EFFECTIVE DATES FOR WATER AND SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   The water rates and charges set forth in §
50.01 shall be effective as to all water customers beginning on the respective
dates upon which each new water customer connects his or her premises to the
water line made available to his or her premises.
   (B)   (1)   The sewer system shall be considered “available” to any premises
which abut upon any street, road, alley, public or private way, or easement in
which there exists a sewer pipe, main, lateral, or other structure or
installation of the municipal sanitary sewer system to be constructed by the
city, capable of receiving flowable wastes, in which the city has brought a
sewer line to a point located at the edge of the property line or easement of
the owner of such premises.
      (2)   The sewer rates and charges prescribed in §
50.01 shall be effective as to all premises where new sewer lines are made
available as above defined, upon the date of actual connection thereto, or on a
date 60 days after the Sewer Superintendent furnishes the property owner
notice, either by personal written notice or by notice published in a local
newspaper of general circulation throughout the city to the effect that sewer
service is available to the premises, whichever date is earlier.
   (C)   The schedule of rates prescribed in §
50.01 for monthly water and sewer service shall be uniformly charged to all
customers of the waterworks and sewer systems located within the city limits.
Each customer located outside the city limits shall be charged monthly water
and sewer rates equal to 125% of the monthly rates herein prescribed.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964)
§ 51.06 ALL CUSTOMERS METERED; NO FREE SERVICE.
   It shall be mandatory for all customers of the waterworks system to be
metered. No one shall receive or be entitled to free water or sewer service or
to any such service without paying the full rates herein specified.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964)
§ 51.07 METERS READ MONTHLY.
   Water meters shall be read monthly commencing on the fifteenth day of each
calendar month, or as soon thereafter as weather and other conditions and
circumstances may reasonably permit, and such reading shall continue as
expeditiously as possible until all of the meters have been read.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964)
§ 51.08 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   A deposit of $150, in addition to connection charges as aforesaid,
shall be made with the city for water service and/or sewer service by any
customer, except resident property owners, desiring service before being
entitled to such service. Such deposit, less any unpaid charges, shall be
refunded to such customer, his or her heirs, or assigns whenever such customer
notifies the city legally to disconnect or terminate service to such customer.
   (B)   Deposit refunds are only available after service is terminated and any
remaining balances on the account are paid in full. The customer must provide a
forwarding address upon termination of service as it may take up to 90 days to
refund any remaining deposit balances.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964; Ord. passed 10-20-1977; Ord. 2-1988, passed 5-16-1988;
Ord. 4-2016, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 51.09 OWNERS PAY CONNECTION CHARGES; OCCUPANTS PAY RATES.
   Connection charges, where applicable, shall be the personal obligation of
the owners of the respective properties. All water and sewer rentals and
charges, other than connection charges, shall be the personal obligation,
collectible by law, of the occupant of the lot, property, or building receiving
the benefits of such use and service, so long as the same continues, and the
satisfaction of the liability by any party shall be a discharge of the
liability for which the payment is made.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964)
§ 51.10 MULTIPLE USERS.
   (A)   Where two or more tenants or occupants (of different rental units) of
property are served by a single water meter, the water and sewer rentals and
charges shall be the personal obligation, collectible by law, of the person who
applies for such service and, where applicable, makes the required deposit.
Each of such occupants shall be billed his or her proportionate (to the number
of users and not to the quantity used) share of the water and sewer charges
applicable to such property and each shall constitute a separate user and be
billed accordingly, and, in any event, not less than the minimum rate herein
prescribed.
   (B)   The computation of the water (and sewer) consumption above the amount
allowed in the minimum bill to such water (and sewer) users shall be made the
same as if only one customer occupied the entire property; provided, however,
that upon the filing of an application for a separate water meter and upon
payment of the applicable fee and deposit therefor, the city shall install a
separate water meter for such applicant, in which event such applicant will be
billed at the water and sewer rates applicable to the usage of water and sewer
service disclosed by such separate meter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964)
§ 51.11 REVISION OF RATES.
   The schedule of rates and charges prescribed in this chapter shall be
revised from time to time and, whenever required, shall be increased so as to
produce income and revenues from the municipal waterworks system and from the
municipal sewer system, adequate to comply with such covenants and agreements
as may be made by the city in connection with the revenue bond issue financing
referred to herein.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964)
§ 51.12 SPECIAL RATES.
   In the event that the sewage, water, or other liquid wastes being discharged
into the municipal sewer system from any premises shall contain unduly high
concentrates of any substances which add to the operating costs of the
municipal sewer system, then special rates, rentals, or charges may be
established, charged, and collected as to such buildings or premises, or the
owner or other interested party may be required to specially treat such sewage,
water, or other liquid wastes before it is discharged into the municipal sewer
system.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964; Ord. passed 2-11-1980)
§ 51.13 POLICY ON WATER LEAKS AND METER CHECKS.
   (A)   (1)   If a customer proves to the Mayor that he or she has a leak on
his or her side of the water meter, and then proves to the Mayor that the leak
has been fixed, the customer may have an adjustment. The customer is allowed
one adjustment per year, and adjustment amounts will be based on the customer’s
average usage dating back 12 months prior to the leak. If he or she has lived
or been at the residence for less than 12 months, the usage will be the average
for the previous months used.
      (2)   Adjustments for filling up a swimming pool can only be given to
customers who have sewer services. Adjustments for swimming pool fill-ups are
computed by sewer usage; therefore, customers without sewer services cannot
receive such an adjustment.
   (B)   If the customer requests a meter check, it will be sent off and
checked. If the meter is reading correct, the customer will pay for the meter
check. If the meter is not reading correct, the Water and Sewer Department will
pay for the meter check.
(Ord. passed 7-1-1984; Ord. 4-2016, passed 9-26-2016)
§ 51.14 BILLING; COLLECTION; PENALTIES.
   (A)   The rates or charges shall be billed monthly on or about the first of
each month, and all bills for such service shall be considered due and payable
on the twentieth day of each month.
   (B)   If a bill is not paid within the ten-day period, there shall be
imposed a penalty on each bill remaining unpaid, in an amount equal to 10% of
the balance due shown on the face amount of the bill. Interest accumulated each
month will be on the balance due.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964; Ord. passed 7-1-1984; Ord. 5-09, passed 11-9-2009)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.15 DELINQUENCIES; DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION; RECONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   The city shall disconnect utility service in accord with the following
policies.
      (1)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid and any deposit required
has been made.
      (2)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   A late payment charge of 10% will be added if bill is not paid
by the tenth day after the billing date. Delinquent notices will be listed on
the next month’s statement;
         (c)   If the account is not paid by the twentieth day after the date
of mailing of the monthly bill, service may be discontinued in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the city’s utilities; and
         (d)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented, in
person and by counsel, or any other person of his or her choosing, and may
present orally or in writing, his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (3)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
   (B)   The provisions of this section and §
51.14 are intended to, and shall, apply regardless of the availability of any
initial deposit required by this chapter.
   (C)   A fee of $25 shall be charged for services required for re-connection
after disconnection, when it has been requested by the customer.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964; Ord. passed 10-20-1977; Ord. passed 7-1-1984; Ord. 3-
1991, passed 3-11-1991; Ord. 5-09, passed 11-9-2009)
§ 51.16 RECORDS AND AUDITS.
   (A)   The rates, rentals, and charges for the use of and services rendered
by the municipal waterworks and sewer systems shall be billed and collected by
the city, and the full amount of the proceeds for each service shall be
deposited as received and set aside into the water and sewer revenue fund
designated, in such manner as the Superintendent of the systems may require,
but subject to any different designation which may be made in any ordinance
relating to the issuance of revenue bonds.
   (B)   (1)   The records of the city with respect to charging, billing,
collecting, and accounting for water and sewer service shall be audited at
least once each 12 months by an independent certified public accountant, and a
report thereof shall be filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer, or in such manner
and at such other time or times as may be provided in any ordinance relating to
the issuance of revenue bonds.
      (2)   The cost of such audit shall be classified and paid as an expense
of operation and maintenance of the municipal waterworks and sewer systems.
(Ord. passed 3-19-1964)
§ 51.17 WATER SERVICE WITHIN THE FLOOD PLAIN.
   (A)   The city resolves that through its waterworks and sewer system, it
will not “hook up” or furnish service to any new customers who may request the
services upon property which is located within the flood plain as that area is
designated on records of the city, unless the property or location requested to
be served, or the improvements located thereon, have been elevated or are
elevated to where the living areas are located above the elevation of the flood
plain.
   (B)   Exceptions to this section will only be made by the city, upon
individual application, and upon individual basis.
(Res. 3-1996, passed 8-7-1996)
CROSS-CONNECTION PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 51.30 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   (1)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish a program to
assure that the public water supply is protected from any auxiliary water
supply which may cause contamination due to backflow or cross-connections.
      (2)   The city recognizes that contamination of the public water supply
presents an imminent health hazard to the residential and non-residential users
of the public water system; the threat of significant economic loss due to
disrupted water service to such residential and non-residential water users and
the potential liability to the city water system.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this resolution to meet the requirements
of 401 KAR 8:020, as enacted by the state’s Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Cabinet.
   (C)   This subchapter shall take effect upon the second reading and
subsequent publication, September 28, 2020, as required by KRS 83A.060.
(Ord. 04-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 51.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city water system’s public water supply. These AUXILIARY WATERS
may include water from any natural source, such as a well, spring, river,
stream, or body of water, or any water or other substance of unknown or
questionable quality, that may present a health or system hazard to the potable
public water supply.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. A listing of acceptable backflow prevention assemblies and degree of
hazard is available in the State Plumbing Law, Regulations, and Code.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply by
any waste product, fluid, substance, compound, or other material to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains
potable water and the other non-potable water, or substance of questionable
quality, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur into the
potable water system.
   THERMAL EXPANSION TANK. A device installed on the cold water supply line
near a water heater to compensate for the expansion of water within a water
system when such water is heated.
(Ord. 04-2020, passed 9-28-2020)
§ 51.32 REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall provide protection to the public water system against
backflow by implementing the following requirements.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   Buildings used for habitation or occupancy shall be considered as
residential buildings. No new water service connection to any premises shall be
installed, or allowed to be installed, by the city water system unless such
service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly.
      (2)   Residential service connections shall be considered as low hazard
applications, and all such connections shall have at a minimum a dual check
valve backflow presenter installed between the water meter and the residence.
      (3)   The city water system may require additional or alternate backflow
prevention assemblies if the degree of hazard constitutes a higher level of
protection for the public water system.
   (B)   Non-residential.
      (1)   No new water service connection to any non-residential facility
shall be installed, or allowed to be installed, by the city water system unless
such water service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly.
      (2)   (a)   The type of protective device required shall be determined at
the time of installation of the service connection and shall be commensurate
with the degree of hazard at the point of such service connection.
         (b)   At a minimum, the service connection shall be installed with a
dual check valve backflow-preventer; in the event activities occur within a
non-residential facility change and create a higher degree of hazard, then the
backflow prevention assembly shall be replaced with an assembly which provides
acceptable protection.
   (C)   Inspections.
      (1)   The customer’s water system shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city water system to
determine whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of this subchapter, exist.
      (2)   When such a condition becomes known, the city water system may deny
or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a physical
break in the service line until the customer has corrected the condition in
conformance with the state and local statutes relating to plumbing, water
supplies, and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
      (3)   Water service to any premises shall be discontinued if it is found
that a backflow prevention assembly required by this subchapter has been
removed, bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the
premises. Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
   (D)   Existing service connections.
      (1)   All existing water service connections which do not have backflow
prevention assemblies, or existing water service connections which have less
than the minimum required backflow prevention assemblies, shall, except for the
inspection requirements, be excluded from the requirements of this subchapter,
so long as the city water system is assured that the public water system is
satisfactorily protected.
      (2)   (a)   However, if the water system determines that a hazard to
health exists, then a backflow prevention assembly meeting the requirements of
this subchapter may be installed on such existing service connection. Backflow
prevention assemblies shall not be installed on existing service connections
until after the property owner of such residential or commercial property has
been informed of the actual and potential hazards that may be created as a
result of such backflow assembly installation.
         (b)   Notices provided to such property owners shall include the
following language as adopted in 815 KAR 20:120 § 1, item (6): When cross-
connection control devices are properly installed, they create a closed water
system. A properly sized thermal expansion tank shall be installed in the cold
water supply located as near the water heater as possible.
(Ord. 04-2020, passed 9-28-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Downspouts, storm water drains not to connect to sanitary sewer system
   
52.02   Grease and oil interceptors; when required
Connection with Municipal Sanitary Sewer System
   
52.15   Definitions
   
52.16   Notice
   
52.17   Privies, vaults, cesspools, septic tanks
   
52.18   Connections with new premises
   
52.19   Substances prohibited from system
   
52.20   Violations
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DOWNSPOUTS, STORM WATER DRAINS NOT TO CONNECT TO SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   All downspouts, gutters, leaders, roof, lawn, and storm water drains
and appurtenances are hereby ordered to be disconnected from the sanitary sewer
system, and the private storm water drainage line plugged with a watertight
seal so that no storm water can enter the sanitary sewer system; no such
connections shall hereafter be made.
   (B)   All costs associated with the procedures stated in this section shall
be borne by each person, firm, or corporation in violation of this section.
(Ord. 1-1986, passed 4-28-1986) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 GREASE AND OIL INTERCEPTORS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Grease and oil interceptors (traps) shall be provided by all users of
the waste water treatment system when, in the opinion of the City Council, with
recommendations from the Mayor and Superintendent, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease and/or oil in
excessive amounts; except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be of type and capacity approved by the city
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection by the city.
   (C)   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of
disposal. The city may require reporting of such information for its review.
Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner’s
personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
   (D)   All interceptors shall comply with the applicable regulations of the
County Health Department.
(Ord. 7-1988, passed 8-15-1988)
CONNECTION WITH MUNICIPAL SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
§ 52.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE. The system or sewers are AVAILABLE if any premises abuts upon any
street, road, alley, public way, or easement in which there is installed a
sewer pipe, a main, lateral, or other structure or installation of the system
capable of receiving flowable sewage wastes, or if such premises shall be
situated within 100 feet of a system installation.
   PREMISES. All places and properties where people live or congregate, or
where flowable sewage wastes are otherwise generated, which should be drained
and disposed of in the interests of public health, safety, and general welfare,
and specifically includes, but not by way of limiting the generality of the
foregoing: all homes; houses; apartments; hotels; motels; trailer camps;
manufacturing, business, commercial, or industrial establishments; and other
structures of any and every nature whatsoever.
   SYSTEM, SANITARY SEWERS, or SEWERS. The municipal SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM of
the city, which is a part of the city’s combined waterworks and sewer system.
(Ord. 3A-1990, passed 7-25-1990)
§ 52.16 NOTICE.
   (A)   Where and when the system is capable of receiving and disposing of the
flowable sanitary system of, and is available to, any premises not already
connected thereto, the city shall give written notice to the owner or occupant
of such premises that a sanitary sewer connection is available, and that the
premises shall be connected thereto within 90 days after the notice is given.
All owners and occupants of premises where sewer service is presently or
hereafter available shall, within 90 days from the date of the notice, connect
therewith all sanitary sewage drain pipes and sewage outlets of such premises.
   (B)   All connections to the system shall be made under and in conformity
with such regulations as the city may from time to time establish by ordinances
or by resolution and municipal order. Failure to effect such connection within
the prescribed time is declared to be unlawful and to constitute a public
nuisance; and the same shall be abated, subject to the penalties hereinafter
prescribed.
   (C)   No sewer tap or connection shall be made by any person, firm, or
corporation except under the direction and supervision of the city’s Water
Superintendent and Sewer Superintendent and in conformity with proper health
standards. Nothing herein contained shall be construed as requiring the city to
furnish a sewer connection or sewer service to any premises where a city sewer
facility is not available at the time the application is made.
(Ord. 3A-1990, passed 7-25-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17 PRIVIES, VAULTS, CESSPOOLS, SEPTIC TANKS.
   From and after the time when a sewer connection is made available to any
premises, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
construct or maintain a privy, vault, cesspool, septic tank, or other similar
contrivance for the reception of flowable sewage wastes, and all privies,
vaults, cesspools, septic tanks and similar contrivances whereby flowable
sewage wastes are cast, drained, or deposited into a container above or below
the surface of the ground, or upon or into the soil, or into any running or
percolating stream of water, or into any cistern or well, are hereby declared
to be unlawful and to constitute a public nuisance; and the same shall be
removed by the owners or occupants or all premises where the sewer connection
is made available.
(Ord. 3A-1990, passed 7-25-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18 CONNECTIONS WITH NEW PREMISES.
   All architects, engineers, contractors, builders, or other persons who shall
hereafter erect new premises where sewers are available shall, before erecting
the same, exhibit to the city, through such officer or employee as may be
designated from time to time for the purpose, satisfactory evidence that a
means has been or will be provided for connecting all sanitary sewage drains
and outlets from the building or structure with the system.
(Ord. 3A-1990, passed 7-25-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.19 SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED FROM SYSTEM.
   (A)   No substances shall be placed or discharged into the system which will
create a combustible, gaseous, explosive, or inflammable condition in the
system, nor shall any substance or objects be placed or discharged into the
system which will not be dissolved and which will thus cause an obstruction and
clogging within the system. No petroleum products shall be placed or discharged
into the system.
   (B)   No surface water drain shall be connected with the system, nor shall
any storm or surface water be otherwise introduced into the system.
(Ord. 3A-1990, passed 7-25-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.20 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
subchapter, or failing or refusing to comply with the same, whether or not such
person, firm, or corporation shall be the owner or the occupant of the premises
involved, shall be proceeded against for committing a nuisance and shall be
reported to the appropriate public health authorities.
(Ord. 3A-1990, passed 7-25-1990) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s continued violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
52.01, or failing or refusing to comply after the 30-day notice, whether or not
that person, firm, or corporation shall be the owner or the occupant of the
premises involved, shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. In addition, the
employees of the municipal water and sewer system shall cause the storm water
drain to be disconnected from the city sanitary sewer system at the expense of
the person, firm, or corporation in violation of that section, using either
contract labor and equipment or labor and equipment provided by the municipal
water and sewer system. The expenses for the disconnection will be added to the
water and sewer bill of the person, firm, or corporation in violation. If such
expenses remain unpaid for 60 days, that fact shall be certified to the City
Clerk/Treasurer in the same manner as unpaid water collection bills, and shall
cause water and sewage services to be disconnected.
(Ord. 1-1986, passed 4-28-1986)
CHAPTER 53: WATER SHORTAGES
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Classes of water use
   
53.04   Declaration of a water shortage advisory
   
53.05   Declaration of a water shortage alert
   
53.06   Declaration of a water shortage emergency
   
53.07   Declaration of rationing
   
53.08   Shortage water rates
   
53.09   Regulations
   
53.10   Violations
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the declaration of official
phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of voluntary
and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the city in the event a
shortage is declared. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with common law riparian or statutory water rights.
(Ord. 8-1988, passed 7-20-1988)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY. Conditions exist which indicate the potential for serious water
supply shortages.
   ALERT. Raw water supplies (i.e., streamflow, reservoir levels, or
groundwater levels) are consistently below seasonal averages, and if they
continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet normal needs.
   ALLOTMENT. The maximum quantity of water allowed for each customer over any
applicable period as established in the water rationing provisions of this
chapter.
   ANY WATER. Any type of water, including fresh water, brackish water,
wastewater, or reclaimed water.
   CUSTOMER. Any person using water for any purpose from the city’s water
distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in the
case of bulk sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   EMERGENCY. Water supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal needs
and serious shortages exist in the area.
   EXCESS USE. The usage of water by a water customer in excess of the water
allotment provided under the water rationing provisions of this chapter for
that customer, over any applicable period.
   FRESH WATER. Water withdrawn from surface or groundwater which has not been
previously used, other than brackish water.
   NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Commercial, industrial, institutional, public, and
all other such users, with the exception of hospitals and health care
facilities.
   RATIONING. Procedures established to provide for the equitable distribution
of critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand and limit
available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is available to
preserve public health and safety.
(Ord. 8-1988, passed 7-20-1988)
§ 53.03 CLASSES OF WATER USE.
   (A)   Class I: essential water uses.
      (1)   Domestic use. Water necessary to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation.
      (2)   Health care facilities. Patient care and rehabilitation.
      (3)   Public use.
         (a)   Firefighting; and
         (b)   Health and public protection purposes, if specifically approved
by health officials and the municipal governing body.
   (B)   Class II: socially or economically important uses of water.
      (1)   Domestic.
         (a)   All domestic uses other than those included in classes one and
three; and
         (b)   Home water use including kitchen, bathroom, and laundry use.
      (2)   Outdoor non-commercial watering (public or private). Agricultural
irrigation for the production of food and fiber or the maintenance of
livestock.
      (3)   Filling and operation of swimming pools.
         (a)   Residential pools which serve more than 25 dwelling units;
         (b)   Pools used by health care facilities for patient care and
rehabilitation; and
         (c)   Municipal pools.
      (4)   Washing of motor vehicles. Commercial car and truck washes;
unrestricted hours of operation.
      (5)   Commercial laundromats. Unrestricted hours of operation.
      (6)   Restaurants, clubs, and eating places. Unrestricted hours of
operation.
      (7)   Schools, churches, motels/hotels, and similar commercial
establishments. Unrestricted operation.
   (C)   Class III: non-essential uses of water.
      (1)   Ornamental purposes. Fountains, reflecting pools, and artificial
waterfalls.
      (2)   Outdoor noncommercial watering (public or private). Gardens, lawns,
parks, golf courses (except greens), playing fields, and other recreational
areas.
      (3)   Filling and operation of swimming pools. Exceptions include:
residential pools which serve more than 20 dwelling units; pools used by health
care facilities for patient care and rehabilitation; and municipal pools.
      (4) Washing of motor vehicles.
         (a)   Including: automobiles; trucks; boats; and trailers; and
         (b)   Exceptions include commercial car and truck washes.
      (5)   Serving water in restaurants, clubs, or eating places. Exceptions
include specific requests by a customers.
      (6)   Fire hydrants.
         (a)   For any purpose, including: use of sprinkler caps; testing fire
apparatus; and for Fire Department drills; and
         (b)   Exceptions include: firefighting; health protection purposes, if
specifically approved by the health officials of the municipality; and certain
testing and drills by the Fire Department, if in the interest of public safety
and is approved by the municipal governing body.
      (7)   Flushing of sewers and hydrants. Exceptions include situations as
needed to ensure public health and safety, and approved by health officials and
the municipal governing body.
(Ord. 8-1988, passed 7-20-1988)
§ 53.04 DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY.
   Whenever the City Council finds that a potential shortage of water supply is
indicated, it shall be empowered to declare, by resolution, that a water
shortage advisory exists, and the Water Manager or Superintendent shall, on a
daily basis, monitor the supply and demands upon that supply. In addition, the
Mayor is authorized to call upon all water customers to employ voluntary water
conservation measures (see Addendum to Ord. 8-1988) to limit water use
(especially Class III uses) and eliminate the waste of water. This resolution
shall be published in the official city newspaper, and may be publicized
through the general news media, or any other appropriate method for making such
resolutions public.
§ 53.05 DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   Whenever the City Council finds raw water supplies (i.e., streamflow,
reservoir levels, or groundwater levels) to be consistently below seasonal
averages, and if they continue to decline and may not be adequate to meet
normal needs, it shall be empowered to declare, by resolution, that a water
shortage alert exists. The city shall continue to encourage voluntary water
conservation measures defined under the advisory declaration, and further shall
impose a ban on all Class III water uses for the duration of the shortage until
it is declared to have ended by resolution of the City Council. Declaration of
these resolutions shall follow the guidelines for declaration in §
53.04.
(Ord. 8-1988, passed 7-20-1988)
§ 53.06 DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council finds that raw water supplies are below the
level necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages exist, it shall
be empowered to declare, by resolution, that a water shortage emergency exists.
Class I, essential uses, shall be identified, in specific, as targets for
voluntary conservation initiatives. Also, all Class II, socially or
economically important uses, shall be banned in addition to the Class III,
nonessential uses.
   (B)   These restrictions shall be considered ongoing until the emergency is
declared ended by resolution of the governing body. Declaration of these
resolutions shall follow the guidelines for declaration in §
53.04.
(Ord. 8-1988, passed 7-20-1988)
§ 53.07 DECLARATION OF RATIONING.
   Whenever the City Council finds a need to provide for the equitable
distribution of critically limited water supplies, in order to balance demand
and limited available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is
available to preserve public health and safety, it shall be empowered to
declare, by resolution, the adoption of mandatory rationing.
   (A)   Objectives of rationing.
      (1)   It is imperative that water customers achieve an immediate further
reduction in water use in order to extend existing water supplies and, at the
same time, assure that sufficient water is available to preserve the public
health and sanitation and to provide fire protection service.
      (2)   The immediate further reduction in water usage is another step
along a continuum of responses to the present water supply shortage. Should
shortages continue, further reductions in usage may be required. It must be
emphasized that the additional usage reduction in the rationed area is a valid
and attainable goal reflective of the conditions which currently exist.
      (3)   The plan provides for equitable reductions in water usage and for
equal sacrifice on the part of each water customer. The success of this chapter
depends on the cooperation of all water customers in the emergency area.
   (B)   Water use rationing for residential users; metered residential water
customers and allotments.
      (1)   The number of permanent residents in each dwelling unit (household)
will determine the amount of water that each household will be allowed.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit (household) shall be allotted 40 gallons per day
for each resident of the household. Households with only one permanent resident
will have a daily allotment of 55 gallons.
      (3)   Residential water customers are required to provide city and
utility personnel with reasonable access to read meters as necessary to this
rationing declaration. Where access is not readily available, all reasonable
efforts to contact customers in order to arrange for access to read meters
shall be made. In the event a water customer does not allow entry to read the
meter after reasonable efforts to arrange for such access, the dwelling unit
(household) allotment will be reduced to 55 gallons per day.
      (4)   (a)   Where the residential water allotment provided under this
section would create an extraordinary hardship, as in the case of special
health-related requirements, the water customer may apply to the city for an
exemption or variance from these requirements. If it is found that the
allotment provided in this section would impose an extraordinary hardship, a
revised allotment for the particular customer may be established.
         (b)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to such an exemption
or variance rendered by a public utility or municipal corporation rendering
water service beyond its corporate limits, may file a complaint with the City
Council in accordance with the city’s normal administrative procedures.
   (C)   Water use rationing for nonresidential water users.
      (1)   Nonresidential customers include commercial, industrial,
institutional, public, and all other such users, with the exception of
hospitals and health care facilities.
      (2)   Nonresidential water customers shall further reduce their water
usage to 40 gallons per person per day or to 50% of use levels during specified
months.
      (3)   It is the primary responsibility of each nonresidential water
customer to meet its mandated water use reduction goal in whatever manner
possible.
      (4)   The city will establish a water allotment for each non-residential
water customer, based upon a required further reduction of water usage from the
rate of water used by the customer in effect or the last recorded use level if
no meter readings record the rate of the customer’s use.
      (5)   Each non-residential water user shall provide access to city
personnel for purposes of meter reading and monitoring of compliance with this
chapter. All reasonable efforts will be made to contact customers to arrange
for access.
      (6)   (a)   If the mandated further reduction in water usage cannot be
obtained without imposing extraordinary hardship which threatens health and
safety, the non-residential customer may apply to the city for a variance. For
these purposes, EXTRAORDINARY HARDSHIP means a permanent damage to property or
economic loss which is substantially more severe than the sacrifices borne by
other water users subject to this chapter. If the further reduction would cause
an extraordinary hardship or threaten health or safety, a variance may be
granted and a revised water use reduction requirement for the particular
customer may be established.
         (b)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to such a variance
rendered by a public utility or municipal corporation rendering water service
beyond its corporate limits may file a complaint with the State Public Service
Commission in accordance with established procedures.
   (D)   Enforcement of water rationing.
      (1)   The city or its water utility will have primary responsibility for
monitoring of compliance with the water rationing ordinance.
      (2)   The following provisions shall govern the implementations of
temporary service interruptions:
         (a)   In order to effectuate compliance with this chapter, the city is
hereby authorized and required to plan and implement temporary service
interruptions to all or part of its water supply system, as may be deemed
appropriate, when any and/or all of the following conditions are determined to
exist:
               1.   The mandated reduction in system-wide usage has not been
achieved;
               2.   The mandated reduction in system-wide water usage has been
achieved, but has failed to have a significant impact in extending limited
water supplies; and/or
               3.   Temporary service interruptions are necessary in order to
further extend limited and/or dwindling water supplies.
         (b)   In the event it is determined that temporary service
interruptions are necessary, the city shall notify its customers through the
public media (newspapers, radio, and television), at least one day prior to the
temporary service interruptions, that a planned, temporary service interruption
is to be imposed. Such notice shall:
               1.   State the day or days when the planned, temporary service
interruptions will occur;
               2.   State the time(s) when such planned, temporary service
interruptions will commence, and the time(s) such interruptions will cease;
               3.   State whether the planned, temporary service interruptions
are to be imposed on the entire system, or part thereof, and, if only parts of
the system will experience planned, temporary service interruptions, identify
geographic boundaries within which such interruptions will occur; and
               4.   Advise all customers within the areas affected by planned,
temporary service interruptions how to treat any water received from the system
for human consumption during the periods of such interruptions, and for such
additional time as may be necessary, until full pressure is restored to the
system.
         (c)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is imposed as
authorized and required by this chapter, it must provide for the continued
delivery of water to health care facilities within the areas affected by such
interruptions by means of any adequate, alternative delivery measures that may
be necessary.
         (d)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is implemented, it
must make provision, by any means possible, for the continued delivery of such
water as may be necessary for the proper operation of sewage collection,
treatment, and disposal systems and facilities.
         (e)   Any residential or non-residential water customer who exceeds
the allotments established pursuant to this water rationing will be subject to
the following excess-use charges.
               1.   Excess-use charges will be collected based on the amount by
which a customer’s use exceeds the water allotments established pursuant to the
local water rationing declaration, computed in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
Excess Usage Per Month                  Charge For Excess
First 2,000 gallons, or portion thereof $7 per 1,000 gallons, or portion
                                        thereof
Each 1,000 gallons, or portion thereof, $15
thereafter
 
               2.   Any monies collected through excess-use charges shall not
be accounted for as income, but shall be placed in a reserve account that is
dedicated to addressing water shortage problems and water conservation
initiatives.
         (f)   In addition to the excess-use charge, noncompliance with the
water rationing provisions of this chapter will result in the following:
               1.   For the first excess use, a warning of possible
discontinuation shall be issued to the customer.
               2.   For the second or subsequent excess use, service to the
customer may be interrupted or shut off for a period not to exceed 48 hours,
or, if the customer provides access, a flow restrictor may be installed in the
customer’s service line for the duration of the emergency. The cost incurred to
interrupt or shut-off and reinstate service, or to install and remove a flow
restrictor, shall be assessed to the water customer.
      (3)   Meter reading schedules are authorized to be altered to assure
adequate monitoring of compliance with this chapter.
      (4)   Any customer or other person aggrieved by a decision or action
imposing an excess-use charge or other remedy for noncompliance with the
requirements of this chapter may proceed in accordance with the following
provisions.
         (a)   The city shall adopt procedures which provide an opportunity for
the customer or aggrieved party to rebut the finding of a violation, or provide
evidence of circumstances beyond the customer’s control which resulted in the
violation.
         (b)   A record of evidence regarding disputed violations shall be
kept, and a written notice of the city’s final decision and action in such
cases shall be provided to the customer or aggrieved party.
         (c)   Any person aggrieved by the final decision or action of a public
utility or municipal corporation may file a complaint with the Public Service
Commission in accordance with established procedures.
(Ord. 8-1988, passed 7-20-1988)
§ 53.08 SHORTAGE WATER RATES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply shortage, as provided in §§
53.04 through
53.07, the City Council shall have the power to adopt shortage water rates by
ordinance designed to conserve water supplies. Such rates may provide for, but
not be limited to: higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing
block rates); uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
race); extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess demand
surcharge); or discounts for conserving water beyond specified levels.
(Ord. 8-1988, passed 7-20-1988)
§ 53.09 REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply shortage, as provided for in
§§
53.04 through
53.07, the Mayor (or Water Superintendent) is empowered to promulgate such
regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter,
any water supply shortage resolution, or water shortage rate ordinance. Such
regulations shall be subject to the approval of the City Council at its next
regular or emergency meeting.
(Ord. 8-1988, passed 7-20-1988)
§ 53.10 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, who fails to carry
out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this chapter, or who impedes or
interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this chapter shall
be subject to the following provisions, as well as the provisions of §
53.99.
   (A)   If the Mayor, Water Superintendent, or other city official or
officials charged with implementation and enforcement of this chapter or a
water supply shortage resolution learns of any violations of any water use
restriction imposed pursuant to this chapter, a written notice of the violation
shall be affixed to the property where the violation occurred and mailed to the
customer of record, and to any other person known to the city who is
responsible for the violation or its correction. The notice shall describe the
violation and order that it be corrected, cured, or abated immediately, or
within such specified time as the city determines is reasonable under the
circumstances. If the order is not complied with, the city may terminate water
service to the customer subject to the following procedures:
      (1)   The city shall give the customer notice, by mail, that, due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting
a hearing scheduled before the City Council body, or a city official designated
as a hearing officer by the governing body;
      (2)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered; and      
      (3)   The City Council or hearing officer shall make findings of fact and
order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (B)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (A) above. In the event of subsequent
violations, the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second violation, and
$300 for each additional violation.
   (C)   Any customer may also be charged with violation of this chapter and
prosecuted in the District Court as provided in §
53.99.
(Ord. 8-1988, passed 7-20-1988)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person so charged and found guilty in District Court of violating the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty for an initial
violation shall be mandatory fees of $100, which may not be adjusted by the
District Court. In addition, such customer may be required by the District
Court to serve a definite term of confinement in the county jail, which shall
be fixed by the District Court and which shall not exceed 30 days. The penalty
for a second violation shall be a mandatory fine of $200, which may not be
adjusted by the District Court. In addition, such customer shall serve a
definite term of confinement in the county jail, which shall be fixed by the
District Court and which shall not exceed 30 days. Penalties for additional
violations shall be the same as the second violation.
(Ord. 8-1988, passed 7-20-1988)
CHAPTER 54: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Jackson County Solid Waste Management Plan adopted
Franchises
   
54.15   Creation and award
   
54.16   Terms
   
54.17   Operations and maintenance
   
54.18   Requirements
   
54.19   Solid waste disposal
   
54.20   Bid at public auction
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 JACKSON COUNTY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PLAN ADOPTED.
   The County Solid Waste Management Plan 2018 to 2022, and any and all
amendments and updates, are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein
as if set out in full. The city supports the aforesaid plan’s Action Plan,
Implementation Plan, and associated activities.
(Res. 3-2017, passed 8-21-2017)
FRANCHISES
§ 54.15 CREATION AND AWARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a franchise granting the right, privilege, and
franchise for furnishing, and to furnish, to the city and to its citizens,
residents, businesses, and industries, collection and disposal services for
solid waste within the city, and such franchisee shall be granted the right to
go upon or under the streets, alleys, or other public ways or places of the
city to effect its franchise herein.
   (B)   (1)   This franchise, granted herein by the city, shall only be
exclusive for the services specified herein, and only to the extent permitted
by applicable state and federal law; and the franchisee accepts the risk, if
any, that the city may lack the authority to grant an exclusive franchise.
      (2)   Any franchise granted hereunder may be extended to newly annexed
territory upon the same terms and conditions herein, subject to approval of the
state regulatory authorities, if applicable.
   (C)   The franchisee shall execute a franchise contract with the city
incorporating the terms of this subchapter, the request for proposals for
residential and commercial waste collection and disposal, and any bid form and
proposal submitted to the city by the franchisee (i.e., the “contract”).
   (D)   The franchise shall hereby not be transferred, assigned, nor delegated
without the written consent of the city.
(Ord. -2000, passed 2-21-2000)
§ 54.16 TERMS.
   (A)   (1)   The franchise herein shall be for a term of two years, and may
be extended for up to two additional two-year terms, up to a maximum term of
six years.
      (2)   The franchise includes all terms of this subchapter, and all
provisions of the contract documents referred to in the contract entered into
by and between the franchisee and the city, pursuant to the terms hereof.
   (B) The franchisee shall provide such services and shall charge such rates
as are set out in the contract, and the rate in said contract may only be
changed in the manner specified therein.
   (C)   Since the franchise established herein may be nonexclusive, in the
event that other individuals, partnerships, corporations, or other entities
provide collection and/or solid waste disposal services in the city, such
individuals, partnerships, corporations, or other entities shall be subject to
the following sections of this subchapter: §§
54.17;
54.18(A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), and (B); and
54.19.
   (D)   Any utility, agency, or other entity providing services herein
contemplated which is owned and operated by the city, or a subordinate agency
thereof, is excluded from the terms and provisions hereof.
(Ord. -2000, passed 2-21-2000)
§ 54.17 OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE.
   In the maintenance and operation of its collection and disposal system in
the streets, alleys, and other public places, and in the course of any new
construction or addition to its facility, the franchisee shall proceed so as to
cause the least possible inconvenience to the general public.
(Ord. -2000, passed 2-21-2000)
§ 54.18 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to any other franchise requirements hereunder or made or
adopted herein as provided, the following requirements shall apply to any
franchise granted hereunder.
      (1)   In consideration of the granting and exercise of the franchise
herein, and in further consideration of the grant to the franchisee the right
to make use of the public streets, alleys, or other public ways in the city,
since such public properties are valuable properties acquired and maintained at
great expense to the taxpayers of the city, and the grant to the franchisee of
the right to use same is a valuable property right, without which the
franchisee would be required to invest substantial capital in right-of-way
costs and acquisitions, the franchisee shall pay to the city, during the entire
life of the franchise, a sum equal to no less than 3% of the franchisee’s gross
revenues received from collection and disposal services generated within the
corporate limits, to be paid as set out in the contract.
      (2)   Any franchise payments to the city by the franchisee shall not be
in lieu of any occupational, income, license, or property tax, or similar levy,
assessment, fee, or charge which would otherwise apply to be payable by the
franchisee.
      (3)   (a)   The franchisee shall file with the City Clerk/Treasurer, and
shall thereafter, during the entire term of this franchise, maintain, in full
force and effect, a corporate surety bond, or other adequate surety agreement,
in the amount and kind specified in the contract and conditioned that in the
event the franchisee shall fail to comply with any one or more of the
provisions of the franchise, then there shall be recoverable, jointly and
severally, from the principal and surety, any damages or costs suffered or
incurred by the city, or by any customer of any action or proceedings, and
including the full amount of any compensation, indemnification, cost of removal
of any property, or other costs which may be incurred to the principal amount
of such bond.
         (b)   Said condition shall be a continuing obligation during the
entire term of this franchise, and thereafter, until the franchisee shall have
satisfied, in full, any and all obligations to the city and any of its
customers hereunder, or other person or entity, which arise out of, or
pertaining to, this franchise.
         (c)   Neither the provisions of this section, nor any bond accepted by
the city pursuant hereto, nor any damages recovered by the city thereunder,
shall be construed to excuse faithful performance by the franchisee or limit
the liability of the franchisee under any franchise issued pursuant to this
subchapter.
      (4)   Upon acceptance of such franchise, the franchisee shall file with
the City Clerk/Treasurer, and shall thereafter, during the entire term of such
franchise, maintain in full force and effect a single limit comprehensive
liability policy of insurance with limits of not less than $500,000 each
occurrence and $1,000,000 aggregate, and which shall insure the franchisee, and
shall provide primary coverage for the city, its officers, boards, commissions,
agents, and employees against liability for loss or damage occasioned by any
activity or operation of the franchisee under such franchise, and which shall
contain and include a standard cross-liability endorsement thereto.
      (5)   The franchisee shall indemnity and hold harmless the city, its
officers, boards, commissions, agents, and employees against and from any and
all claims, demands, causes of actions, actions, suits, proceedings, damages,
or costs or liabilities (including costs or liabilities of the city with
respect to its employees) of every kind and nature whatsoever, including, but
not limited to: damages for injury or death; damage to persons or property, and
regardless of the merit of any of the same, against all liability to others;
and against any loss, costs, and expense resulting or arising out of any of the
same, including any attorney fees, accountant fees, expert witness or
consultant fees, court costs, per diem expense, traveling and transportation
expense, or other costs or expense arising out of or pertaining to actions of
the franchisee in the exercise or the enjoyment of any privilege hereunder by
the franchisee, of the granting thereof by the city.
      (6)   (a)   The franchisee shall, at its sole risk and expense, upon
demand of the city made by and through the City Attorney, appear in and defend
any and all suits, actions, or other legal proceedings, whether judicial,
quasi-judicial, administrative, legislative, or otherwise, brought, institute,
or had by third person or duly constituted authorities against or affecting the
city, its officers, boards, commissions, agents, or employees, and arising out
of, or pertaining to, action of the franchisee in the exercise or the enjoyment
of such franchise, or the granting thereof by the city.
         (b)   The franchisee shall pay, and satisfy, and shall cause to be
paid and satisfied, any judgment, decree, order, directive, or demand rendered,
made, or issued against the franchisee, the city, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents, or employees in any of these premises, and such indemnity
shall exist and continue without reference to, or limitation by, the amount of
any bond, policy of insurance, deposit, undertaking, or other assurance
required hereunder, or otherwise; provided, that neither the franchisee nor
city shall make or enter into any compromise or settlement of any claim,
demand, cause of action, action, suit, or other proceeding without first
obtaining the written consent of the other.
      (7)   The franchisee shall abide by all provisions of this franchise, and
shall further agree that it will not, at any future time, set up as against the
city the claim that the provisions of this franchise are unreasonable,
arbitrary, or void.
   (B)   The franchisee shall provide the highest and best service in
accordance with accepted standards of the industry, shall maintain a convenient
place to be open at reasonable hours for the purposes of paying bills and
transacting business with the public, and further, shall keep and maintain such
personnel as reasonably necessary to provide the service so franchised and to
respond to customer complaints and to correct defective service.
(Ord. -2000, passed 8-21-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.19 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   The solid waste collected by the franchisee shall be disposed of in a manner
complying with all city ordinances, state laws and regulations, and all federal
laws and regulations pertaining to the disposal of solid waste trash and
garbage. No solid waste shall be burned, except in an incinerator complying
with all city ordinances pertaining to incinerators, and complying with all
applicable state laws and regulations and all federal laws and regulations.
(Ord. -2000, passed 2-21-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 54.20 BID AT PUBLIC AUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be duty of the Mayor, as soon as practicable after the
passage of this section, to offer for sale at public auction the franchise and
privileges involved herein. Said franchise shall be sold to the best available
bidder.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall give notice by advertising, pursuant to
KRS Chapter 424, for request for bids and the time for receipt of same. Any
utility subject to the terms and provisions of this subchapter may provide for
in its bid any special or extraordinary matters or circumstances which relate
or apply to its particular business; all subject, however, to the right of
rejection of any such bid by the city.
   (C)   (1)   After the time set for receipt of bids hereunder, the Mayor
shall report and submit to the City Council, at the time of its next regular
meeting, the bids and proposals for its approval. The City Council reserves the
right for and on behalf of the city to reject any and all bids for said
franchises and privileges, and the City Council may direct that said franchise
or franchises to be again offered for sale from time to time, until a
satisfactory bid or bids shall be received and approved.
      (2)   Each such bid shall be accompanied by a deposit, and each bidder
shall post bond in accordance with the provisions of KRS 96.020; provided,
however, that such deposit and bond need not be made by any bidder which owns
and operates within the corporate limits of the city, as the plant and
equipment are sufficient to render the service or services required by this
subchapter. Upon receipt of a bid or bids, the city may negotiate further
specific terms of any franchise agreement hereunder.
(Ord. -2000, passed 2-21-2000)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
   
70.06   Soliciting donations from drivers
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street, or portion thereof, so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department, or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03, or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, driving any animal on any roadway, and/or every person driving
any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of this traffic
code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions of this
traffic code which by their very nature can have no application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct, or attempt to
direct, traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified, in writing, of the extended
order.
§ 70.06 SOLICITING DONATION FROM DRIVERS.
   Only charitable organizations approved by the Mayor may get a permit, and
such organizations will be required to advertise such action in the newspaper
one week prior to the date of solicitation.
(Ord. 04-00, passed 4-17-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone, double red, or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of- way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and, as far as possible, shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without authority, attempt to, or in fact, alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles, an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals, hides from view, or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal or any commercial advertising. Nothing in
this section shall be construed as restricting any public department or public
utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting
any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance, and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if,
at the time and place of the alleged violation, the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency, any police officer may, at his or her discretion, disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $20, nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.30   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.31   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over firehose
   
71.32   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Permit required
   
71.47   Application for permit
   
71.48   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.49   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.50   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.51   Alternative permit
   
71.52   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.53   Contents of permit
   
71.54   Duties of permittee
   
71.55   Public conduct during parades
   
71.56   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle, or permit it to remain
standing, in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   (1)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance.
      (2)   Should the operator of any vehicle enter any intersection so marked
when there is insufficient room on the other side of the intersection to
accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-control signal
notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this division (C)
rather than division (B) above.
   (D)   No person shall assemble, congregate, or use any public street or
public sidewalk in the city so as to impede or hinder the orderly and normal
traffic or travel of any vehicle, or passengers therein, or any pedestrian
along, upon, or about the street or sidewalk; this applies to any business
where city sidewalks and city streets are involved.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 9-17-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the
vehicle at any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement.
   (B)   A vehicle from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in
such manner as to proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful
direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway, or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building, the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.30 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)    A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates division
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator’s license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.31 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)    Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
emergency vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, immediately drive to a position parallel, and as close as
possible, to the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and
stop and remain stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire alarm, unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) of this section shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes,
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.32 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.46 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or start
any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of Police or
other authorized city official. This subchapter shall not apply to funeral
processions or a governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by the
official.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalks, parks, or other public places
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication, in writing, from the person authorizing the applicant to apply
for the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.48 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city, other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and/or
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days (Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted) after filing thereof.
   (B)   If he or she disapproves the application, he or she shall mail to the
applicant within the three days (Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted)
after the date on which the application was filed, a notice of his or her
action stating the reasons for his or her denial of the permit.
§ 71.50 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.51 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit
under this subchapter.
§ 71.52 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.53 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and
conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (B)   The parade chairperson, or other person heading or leading the
activity, shall carry the parade permit on his or her person during the conduct
of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.55 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly, or with any person, vehicle,
or animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle, except a police car
or other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
§ 71.56 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.31 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not
less than $60, nor more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not
more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Two-hour parking zones
   
72.14   Parking near or blocking fire hydrants
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized
   
72.26   Required notice to owner and sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle, or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance, in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of, and parallel with, the curb; except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of, and parallel with, the curb.
   (C)   (1)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except
that wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading; provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes.
      (2)   This backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all times and on
all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed interferes with the
use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road space within ten feet of
the center line of the street.
   (D)   (1)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places,
requiring the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a
certain portion of the roadway adjacent thereto.
      (2)   However, diagonal parking shall not be established where the
roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet of the center line of
any street. The diagonal parking places shall be designated by suitable signs,
and shall indicate by markings on the pavement the required angle and the width
of the roadway space within which the vehicle shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   On an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
(KRS 189.450(5))
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(6))
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times, or at those times herein specified, or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at, or adjacent
to, any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day, except Sunday, on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets, or portions thereof,
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of, or by, this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is
imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are
restricted to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving
notice thereof.
      (2)   However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at, or adjacent to, which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (3)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day, except Sunday, and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle
on any of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or
longer.
   (B)   Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or
streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed
abandoned, and shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city
pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, or other authorized city official, shall have the
authority whenever, in his or her judgment, it is necessary to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street, or partthereof, constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or abandon
the vehicle, or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or on an
area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of the
owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility. If, at any
time, a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses in violation of
this section, the owner, lessee, or person in charge of the property or
facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in accordance with the
provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.26. Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility shall
post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility is
privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owners
expense before exercising the authority granted in this section.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor
vehicle bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk
pursuant to appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when
operated by a handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may
be parked in a designated handicapped parking place; or when parked in a
metered parking space, may be parked for two hours for no fee; or when parked
where any parking limit is imposed, may be parked for two hours in excess of
the parking limit.
      (2)   The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period
of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to, or
from, the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “No Stopping” or “No
Parking” zone, nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 TWO-HOUR PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Two-hour parking zones are hereby established within the city.
   (B)   In order that the police officers may compute the time during which a
vehicle is parked, they are authorized to mark the vehicle in whatever way is
necessary to determine time.
   (C)   If a vehicle shall remain parked in any such parking space over the
two-hour limit, the vehicle shall be considered as parking overtime, which
shall constitute a violation of this section.
(Ord. 7-1984, passed 11-19-1984) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 PARKING NEAR OR BLOCKING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall block a fire hydrant, or park within six feet of a fire
hydrant.
(Ord. 184, passed 4-3-1978; Ord. 185, passed 4-3-1978) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violators arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicles release.
(Ord. passed 3-28-1980)
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER AND SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)    Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
KRS 376.275(2), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in
accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her
possession.
   (B)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS 376.275(2), may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten days prior
to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this division shall
be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any existing lienholder
pursuant to division (C) of this section.
   (C)   (1)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
      (2)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number,
owner’s name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (3)   If the certified letter required under this division is not sent
within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then only ten days of
storage may be charged.
      (4)   The lienholder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of
the motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, the
towing company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (C)(5) of
this section.
   (D)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
to 281.936 and 359.230 and this section, and the owner does not exercise the
right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section within 45 days
of notification required under KRS 281.928, the towing company or storage
facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning disposition of contents of motor vehicle, see KRS
376.275(2)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police, or other authorized city official, finds
that falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes
it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him or her.
   (B)   (1)   After the effective time of the prohibition, no person shall
park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency
route.
      (2)   However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after
11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police, or other authorized
city official, has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow
emergency routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked
on a snow emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the
fall.
   (C)   The prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police, or other
authorized city official under the authority of this section, shall remain in
effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part
or in which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no
longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official, shall find
that some, or all, of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On a street or highway designated
as a SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
except §
72.13 shall be deemed to have committed a violation, and shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $20, nor more than $100.
   (B)   The minimum fine for violation of §
72.13 shall be $l if deposited with the City Clerk/Treasurer within 24 hours
after a citation is issued. If the fine is not paid within 24 hours, the
citation shall be enforced in District Court, and a fine of not less than $5,
nor more than $20, plus the costs of prosecution, shall be imposed.
(Ord. 7-1984, passed 11-19-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 189.990(1)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles and Motorcycles; Toy Vehicles
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motor scooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES; TOY VEHICLES
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person, except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind
to go on any roadway, except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
73.01 through
73.04 shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be subject to a
fine of not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   All-terrain vehicles
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The maximum speeds on the streets below are as indicated:
 
Street                Location               Speed Limit Ordinance Date
Hughes Street         Through the CCC Bottom 15 mph      5-1984    11-19-1984
                      Road
Ridgeview Road        From United States
(McCammon Ridge Road) Highway 421 to the     35 mph      4-1984    11-19-1984
                      corporate limits
                      Within the Rocky Hills
Roberts Court         Heights multi-family   15 mph      5-1984    11-19-1984
                      housing development
 
   (B)   Fine for violation of this schedule shall be determined by the
county’s District Court.
SCHEDULE II. ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   On all streets, roads, lanes, drives, alleyways, and the like within the
city limits it shall be permissible to operate an all-terrain vehicle (ATV).
(Ord. 02-2022, passed 3-21-2022)
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Angle parking
      
II.   Truck parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I. ANGLE PARKING.
   Angle parking shall be permitted in the following locations:
 
Street Location                                                   Ordinance Date
Main   From the upper corner of the court house lot to Dunsil’s           3-
Street garage                                                     -         15-
                                                                            1948
 
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Trucks shall be prohibited from parking in the following locations:
 
Street      Location      Ordinance Date
Main Street Between signs -         3-15-1948
 
Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dogs or other animals running at large
   
90.03   Impoundment
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02 DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound the dog or have the
dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each offense. Each day the
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.20   Public meeting required
   
91.21   Notice requirements; public may testify
   
91.22   Effect of testimony
   
91.23   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
91.24   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
91.25   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
91.40   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.41   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.42   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.43   Removal of ice and snow
Conduct on Streets
   
91.55   Permit required for use of public address system
   
91.56   Permit required for solicitation from traveling public
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single
project and shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall
be made on a form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of
the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated,
and other facts as may be provided for.
   (B)   The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to
cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the authorized city
official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or, where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed, without
notice, to make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited.
   (C)   Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid into the appropriate city fund,
except that part demanded and paid to the permittee as the difference between
the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration services performed by
it.
   (D)   If the amount of the services performed by the city should exceed the
amount of the deposit, the City Clerk/Treasurer, or other proper administrative
officer, shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet, or portion thereof, excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the
work. The Mayor, if authorized by the City Council, may make separate contracts
for the different kinds of work with different parties.
Statutory references:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.20 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.21 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.22 EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting, but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.23 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting, as provided in this
subchapter, has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.24 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.25 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.40 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
way within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting
any fence or building to remain thereon.
   (B)   Each day that any fence or building is permitted to remain upon the
public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot
of land, bordering on any street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles, or substances of any kind, so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
   (B)   No person shall illegally use the streets, sidewalks, hallways, or any
other public place of the city for the purpose of displaying goods without
written authorization of the Mayor and approval by the City Council.
(Ord. 197, passed 4-3-1978) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
CONDUCT ON STREETS
§ 91.55 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR USE OF PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall use any public address system on city
streets on a vehicle, or in any other way or manner, without first obtaining a
permit from the City Council.
(Ord. passed 9-9-1957) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.56 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SOLICITATION FROM TRAVELING PUBLIC.
   (A)   Any person or persons wishing to solicit money or other contributions
from the traveling public must get a permit from the city. This permit is free,
but it shall establish the time for any such road block and method of
solicitation in the city.
   (B)   Only charitable organizations, approved by the City Council, may get a
permit, and they will be required to advertise such action in the newspaper one
week prior to the date of solicitation.
(Ord. 5-1988, passed 6-20-1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.06, and
91.20 through
91.25 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine of not more than $500.
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 through 411.570
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR. A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(b))
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor-driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(e))
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in that condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor-driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW. A sight line within normal visual range by a person on
a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(h))
   PARTS CAR. An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
(KRS 65.8840(1)(j))
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition, or use of property
which shall continue for a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health,
repose, or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage; or
      (3)   Essentially interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tend to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter, or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof, or of parts thereof;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another;
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more;
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interfere
with the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, cause
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitute an obstruction to drainage;
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot,
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors; and
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts, or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by
the city for those purposes.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, it shall be unlawful for the
owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any premises within
a local government to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or source of
filth to develop thereon through the accumulation of:
      (1)   Junked or wrecked automobiles, vehicles, machines, or other similar
scrap or salvage materials, excluding inoperative farm equipment;
      (2)   One or more mobile or manufactured homes, as defined in KRS
227.550, that are junked, wrecked, or inoperative and which are not inhabited;
      (3)   Rubbish; and/or
      (4)   The excessive growth of weeds or grass.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A)(1) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Junked, wrecked, or inoperative automobiles, vehicles, machines, or
other similar scrap or salvage materials located on the business premises of a:
         (a)   Licensed automotive recycling dealer as described in KRS 190.010
(8);
         (b)   Used motor vehicle dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(6); or
         (c)   Motor vehicle auction dealer as defined in KRS 190.010(11).
      (2)   Junked, wrecked, or inoperative motor vehicles, including parts
cars, stored on private premises by automobile collectors, whether as a hobby
or a profession, if these motor vehicles and parts cars are stored out of
ordinary public view by means of suitable fencing, trees, shrubbery, or other
means; and/or
      (3)   Any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.010 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier.
   (C)   An owner shall not permit any structure upon his or her premises to
become unfit and unsafe for human habitation, occupancy, or use, or to permit
conditions to exist on the structure or premises which are dangerous or
injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of the structure, the
occupants of neighboring structures, or other residents of the local
government.
   (D)   (1)   A local government may provide, by ordinance, for the abatement
and decontamination of a property where a methamphetamine contamination notice
has been posted as provided in KRS 224.1-410 Pursuant to divisions (F) and (K)
below, notice and an opportunity to request a hearing shall be afforded to an
owner prior to decontamination of the property.
      (2)   A lien for all fees, charges, and costs incurred by the local
government in the enforcement of an ordinance related to decontaminating a
property where a methamphetamine contamination notice has been posted pursuant
to KRS 224.1-410, shall be placed on the property pursuant to division (G)
below.
   (E)   (1)   The city may establish by ordinance reasonable standards and
procedures for the enforcement of this section. The procedures shall comply
with all applicable statutes, administrative regulations, or codes.
      (2)   Any ordinance establishing these procedures may be enforced by any
means authorized by law. Proper notice shall be given to owners before any
action is taken pursuant to this section, and, prior to the decontamination of
a property where a methamphetamine contamination notice has been posted
pursuant to KRS 224.1-410 or the demolition of any unfit or unsafe structure,
the opportunity to request a hearing shall be afforded the owner.
   (F)   Unless imminent danger exists on the subject premises that
necessitates immediate action, the local government shall send, within 14 days
of a final determination after hearing or waiver of hearing by the owner, a
copy of the determination to any lien holder of record of the subject premises
by first-class mail with proof of mailing. The lien holder of the record may,
within 45 days from receipt of that notice, correct the violations cited, or
elect to pay all civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and
fees incurred by the local government in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance, including abatement costs, as permitted by division (G) below.
   (G)   (1)   The city shall have a lien against the property for all civil
fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the
city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement
costs. The affidavit of the code enforcement officer shall constitute prima
facie evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk.
      (2)   The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest thereafter until paid. The lien created shall
take precedence over all other liens, except state, county, school board, and
city taxes, except as provided in division (H) below. The city shall possess
the lien for ten years following the date of the final, non-appealable order of
a code enforcement board or final judgment of the court. The lien may be
enforced by judicial proceeding.
   (H)   The lien provided in division (G) above shall not take precedence or
priority over a previously recorded lien if:
      (1)   The city failed to provide the lien holder a copy of the
determination in accordance with division (F) above; or
      (2)   The lien holder received a copy of the determination as required by
division (F) above, and the lien holder corrected the violations or paid all
civil fines assessed for the violation and all charges and fees incurred by the
local government in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance, including
abatement costs.
   (I)   (1)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (E) above, or
any other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a premises upon which a lien
has been attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for the
amount of the lien, including all civil fines assessed for the violation and
all charges, fees, and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance.
      (2)   The city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have
the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed. The failure of
the city to comply with division (F) above, and the failure of a lien to take
precedence over previously filed liens, as provided in division (H) above,
shall not limit or restrict any remedies that the city has against the owner of
the premises.
   (J)   The provisions of divisions (E), (G), and (I) above shall not apply to
an owner, occupant, or person having control or management of any land located
in an unincorporated area if the owner, occupant, or person is not the
generator of the rubbish, or is not dumping, or knowingly allowing the dumping,
of the rubbish and has made reasonable efforts to prevent the dumping of
rubbish by other persons onto the premises.
   (K)   The right to request a hearing pursuant to this section shall be
limited to a period of 30 days after notice has been placed on the property and
has been sent by certified mail return receipt requested.
(KRS 65.8840(3) to (14)) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but, by the exercise of reasonable
care, ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with, or caused by,
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate threat to the public health,
safety, or welfare, the City Council may suspend the license of the person or
persons conducting the business or activity.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause a notice of the suspension to be
served personally upon the licensee, or upon any responsible agent of the
licensee, at the premises where the licensed business or activity is being
conducted. The notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the
suspension, and the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be
removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s continued violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Legality of items
   
93.03   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.04   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.05   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.06   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.07   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.22   Fires prohibited; exceptions
Open Burning
   
93.35   Definitions; applicability
   
93.36   Allowable open burning
   
93.37   Restrictions
   
93.38   Procedures for fire training
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Common terms. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSUMER FIREWORKS. As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, fireworks
that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product
Safety Commission.
         (a)   The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this section. Some small devices designed
to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices, ground
devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and aerial
devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
         (b)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product
Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, are classified as
Division 1.4G Class C explosives by the United States Department of
Transportation, and include divisions (B) through (D) below.
      DISPLAY FIREWORKS As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation.
         (a)   This term includes, but is not limited to: firecrackers
containing more than two grains (130 milligrams) of explosive composition;
aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of pyrotechnic composition; and
other display pieces which exceed the limits for classification as consumer
fireworks.
         (b)   DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and are classified as Class
B explosives by the United States Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
      FIREWORKS. As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, any composition or
device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
consumer fireworks or display fireworks, as defined above, and as set forth in
the United States Department of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials
regulations, being 16 C.F.R. pt 1507, Fireworks Devices. FIREWORKS does not
include:
         (a)   Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which
paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT regulations, and
packed and shipped according to those regulations, are not considered to be
FIREWORKS and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all times;
         (b)   Model rockets and model rocket motors designed, sold, and used
for the purpose of propelling recoverable aerocraft models are not considered
to be FIREWORKS; and
         (c)   Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of
sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed for
producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
      CONE FOUNTAIN. A cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a cylindrical
fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the total
pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are
separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-half inch.
      CYLINDRICAL FOUNTAIN. A cylindrical tube containing not more than 75
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
      DIPPED STICK-SPARKLER or WIRE SPARKLER. These devices consist of a metal
wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition. Upon
ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced. SPARKLERS
may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Those devices
containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
pyrotechnic composition per item. WIRE SPARKLERS which contain no magnesium and
which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not included in
this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
      GROUND SPINNER. Small device containing not more than 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel, but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
      FLITTER SPARKLER. A narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire and
filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that produces
color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is ignited to
make the device function.
      ILLUMINATING TORCH. A cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams of
pyrotechnic composition; may be spike, base, or hand-held. Upon ignition,
colored fire is produced. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
      TOY SMOKE DEVICE. A small plastic or paper item containing not more than
100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces white or
colored smoke as the primary effect.
      WHEEL. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or string.
A WHEEL may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not more than
60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No WHEEL may contain more than 200 grams
total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the WHEEL revolves, producing a
shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
   (C)   Aerial devices.
      AERIAL SHELL KIT, RELOADABLE TUBE. A package kit containing a cardboard,
high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with multiple-
shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60 grams of
total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible
effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not exceed
one and three-quarter inches.
         (a)   The maximum quantity of lift charge in any shell shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in the
shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in a kit, including
lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user lowers a shell into the
launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse extending out of the top
of the tube.
         (b)   After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with another shell
for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of firing twice the
number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each package of
multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label requirements of
the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      HELICOPTER, AERIAL SPINNER. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached which, upon ignition,
lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible effect is
produced at the height of flight.
      MINE or SHELL. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a wood
or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical composition
(lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect composition). Upon
ignition, stars, or other devices, are propelled into the air. The term MINE
refers to a device with no internal components containing a bursting charge,
and the term SHELL refers to a device that propels a component that
subsequently bursts open in the air.
         (a)   A MINE or SHELL device may contain more than one tube provided
the tubes fire in sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a MINE or SHELL device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (b)   CAKE. A dense-packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total
chemical composition including lift charges of any multiple tube devices may
not exceed 200 grams.
         (c)   STARS. Pellets of pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with
bright color; components producing reports containing up to 130 milligrams of
explosive composition per report.   
      MISSILE-TYPE ROCKET. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
      ROMAN CANDLES. A heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars are individually
expelled at several-second intervals.
      SKY ROCKETS and BOTTLE ROCKETS. A cylindrical tube containing not more
than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. SKY ROCKETS contain a wooden stick
for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst of
color or noise, or both, is produced at the height of flight.
   (D)   Audible ground devices.
      CHASER. A small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the ground
upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced. The
explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50 milligrams.
      FIRECRACKERS and SALUTES. A small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
(KRS 227.702)
   (E)   Novelties and trick noisemakers. Items listed below are classified as
novelties and trick noisemakers and are not classified as common fireworks by
the United States Department of Transportation, and their transportation,
storage, retail sale, possession, sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the
state at all times.
      SMOKE DEVICE. A tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      SNAKE or GLOW WORM. A pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      TRICK NOISEMAKER. An item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include the devices described in divisions (a)
through (f) below.
         (a)   AUTO BURGLAR ALARM. A tube which contains pyrotechnic
composition that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A
small quantity of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams, may also be used to
produce a small report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
         (b)   BOOBY TRAP. A small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   CIGARETTE LOAD. A small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (d)   PARTY POPPER. A small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (e)   SNAPPER. A small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute
quantity of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped,
the device explodes, producing a small report.
         (f)   TRICK MATCH. A kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
      WIRE SPARKLER. A wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that produces a
shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain magnesium and must
not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices containing any chlorate
or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of composition per item.
(KRS 227.704)
§ 93.02 LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   Items described in division §
93.01(A) (see “consumer fireworks”) are legal for retail sale, provided all
applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
   (B)   Items described in division §
93.01(A) (see “display fireworks”) are not legal for retail sale, but are legal
under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes specified in
this subchapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as provided in
this subchapter.
   (C)   Items described in division §
93.01(E) are legal for retail sale; provided all applicable federal and state
requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
§ 93.03 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, copartnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, or keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode
any display fireworks, except as follows.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department, or other authorized city
official, may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
         (a)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator
to be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall
be of a character, and so located, discharged, or fired as in the opinion of
the official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or
endanger any person.
         (b)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR is also an employee
possessor.
      (2)   A permit under this division (A) shall be issued only to a
competent display operator holding an ATF license. At least one competent
display operator shall be on site during display set-up and firing. This
competent display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit application, as
signed by the local authority having jurisdiction as identified in this
section, on site and at all times the display is in place, and shall be
presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal or local Fire Chief.
      (3)   All public displays that require issuance of a permit shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) 1123, Code for Fireworks Display (2018 Edition). Permits
shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days in advance of the
date of the display. After the privilege is granted, sales, possession, use and
distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful for that purpose
only. No permit granted under this division shall be transferable. For the
purposes of this division (A), PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS shall include the
use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a proximate
audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (4)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of
Housing, Buildings, and Construction, with recommendation from the State Fire
Marshal, shall promulgate administrative regulations in accordance with KRS
Chapter 13A to administer the provisions of this division (A). The regulations
shall address the process by which permits are issued and any other procedures
that are reasonably necessary to effectuate this division (A).
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A) above. The permit holder shall present the permit
along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the United States Department of the Interior, or any equivalent
or local agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
93.03, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(A) may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the following requirements are met.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or business
intending to sell consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(A) shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal, who may assess a
fee of no more than $25 for each site at which fireworks shall be sold.
      (2)   The registration requirement under this division (A) shall not
apply to permanent business establishments which are open year round and in
which the sale of fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business.
Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate imposed
on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (B)   Permanent business establishments open year-round and in which the
sale of consumer fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business shall
only be permitted to sell those consumer fireworks described in §
93.01(A), or shall meet the criteria for seasonal retailer, as described in
division (C) below.
   (C)   SEASONAL RETAILERS shall be defined as any person, firm, co-
partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending to sell consumer fireworks
between June 10 and July 7, or December 26 and January 4, of each year, or
both, and shall include permanent businesses, temporary businesses, stores,
stands, or tents. A seasonal retailer shall register with the State Fire
Marshal, who may assess a fee of no more than $250 for each site at which
fireworks shall be sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at
the current rate imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (D)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit, or corporation intending
to sell consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(A), as the primary source of business, that is not a seasonal retailer as
defined in division (C) above, shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $500 for each site at which fireworks will be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (E)   (1)   The annual registration required by this section shall be
received by the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days prior to offering fireworks
for sale at the site for which the registration is intended. Evidence that a
sales and use tax permit has been obtained from the Department of Revenue shall
be presented to the State Fire Marshal as a condition of registration.
      (2)   If the registration is received less than 15 days prior to offering
fireworks for sale at the site for which registration is intended, an
additional assessment of $100 shall be added to the initial fee.
   (F)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have its
registration certificate displayed in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (G)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with state
amendments (2018 Edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection Association)
Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail Sales of
Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (2022 Edition).
   (H)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01(A) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (I)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under this section unless the individual is supervised by a parent
or guardian.
   (J)   The State Fire Marshal may revoke the registration of any site which
is in violation of a requirement of this section, or any other requirement
provided pursuant to this chapter. If the violation renders any property
especially susceptible to fire loss, and there is present such hazard to human
life or limb that the public safety imperatively requires emergency action, the
State Fire Marshal may take that action, as provided in KRS 227.330(6).
   (K)   A person lawfully possessing consumer fireworks, as defined in §
93.01(A) may use those items if:
      (1)   He or she is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   The fireworks are not ignited within 200 feet of any structure,
vehicle, or any other person; and
      (3)   The use of the fireworks does not place him or her in violation of
any lawfully enacted local ordinance.
(KRS 227.715) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.03 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if, in his or her judgment, the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees, or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of
explosives or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or
industry; gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or
chlorate; toy snakes which contain no mercury; smoke novelties and party
novelties, which contain less than twenty-five hundredths grain of explosive
mixture; shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms; blank cartridges
for a show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or
sports, or for use by military organizations; or the sale of any kind of
fireworks, provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of
the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.07 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “display”
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall
provide the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of
any fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) above shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 through 227.750 shall restrict a local
government from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks
within its jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application, in writing, beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting the permit, may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to, or exit from, any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 FIRES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   The following regulations and requirements are hereby adopted and set forth
in accordance with KRS 83A.060(5), and are made a part of the permanent records
of the city.
   (A)   The periods commencing on February 15 and ending on April 30, and
commencing on October 1 and ending on December 15, of each year are hereby
declared to be and established as the fire hazard seasons. During the fire
hazard seasons, even though the precautions required by KRS 149.375 shall have
been taken, it shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to, or to procure
another to set fire to, any flammable material capable of spreading fire,
located in or within 150 feet of any woodland or brushland, except between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. prevailing local time, or when the ground is
covered with snow.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to fires which may be set for the purpose
of burning plant beds.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to fires which may be set by competent
and qualified employees of railroad, utility, or pipeline companies in
connection with the construction, operation, or maintenance of railroads,
pipelines, power lines, or other projects in the public interest on rights-of-
way used for such railroads, pipelines, power lines, or other projects, and
such fires shall be attended at all times and be extinguished before the
employees of such railroad, utility, or pipeline companies leave the vicinity
of the fire.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to fires set by trained and qualified
employees of a state government agency on land owned by the state, or leased or
managed by the state under a written agreement with the landowner, and set for
the specific purpose of wildlife or plant habitat improvement, ecological site
restoration, site preparation for natural or artificial regeneration or fuel
reduction. Non-governmental organizations and other governmental agencies may
apply to the Division of Forestry for written approval to set fires under this
section. Fires set under this section shall be in accordance with KRS 149.375.
Persons who set such fires shall give written notification of the burn to the
local Division of Forestry district office at least 24 hours in advance and
obtain the approval of the district office.
(Ord. 01-2017, passed 2-22-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 149.400
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.35 DEFINITIONS; APPLICABILITY.
   The following regulations and requirements are hereby adopted and set forth,
in accordance with KRS 83A.060(5), and are made a part of the permanent records
of the city.
   (A)   Necessity, function, and conformity.
      (1)   KRS 224.10-100 requires the Environmental and Public Protection
Cabinet to promulgate administrative regulations for the prevention, abatement,
and control of air pollution.
      (2)   KRS 224.20-110 prohibits any person from, directly or indirectly,
emitting into or discharging into the air under the jurisdiction of the
commonwealth, or causing, permitting, or allowing to be emitted or discharged
into the air, any contaminants as provided for in subsection (1) of KRS 224.01-
010 that shall cause or contribute to the pollution of the air of the
commonwealth in contravention of any of the rules, administrative regulations,
or orders of the cabinet. This administrative regulation establishes
requirements for the control of open burning.
   (B)   Applicability. This administrative regulation shall apply to all open
burning that is not subject to another administrative regulation in 401 KAR
Chapters 50 through 65.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLEAN LUMBER. Wood or wood products that have been cut or shaped and
includes wet, air-dried, and kiln-dried wood products, and does not include
commercial or industrial waste or wood products that have been painted,
pigment-stained, or pressure-treated using any hazardous or toxic compounds.
      FIRE TRAINING. The instruction of industrial, public, and private
firefighters conducted in accordance with safety standards and procedures as
accepted by the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Commission, or the National
Wildfire Coordinating Group.
      GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable matter accumulated in the
course of ordinary day-to-day living.
      HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH. Waste material and trash normally accumulated by a
family in a residence in the course of ordinary day-to-day living, except for
garbage, cans, glass, plastic, or other potentially hazardous waste materials.
      LAND CLEARING. Clearing of land for agricultural, residential,
industrial, or commercial development purposes, including the construction of
roads.
      OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter without a burn chamber, or
without a stack or chimney with control devices, approved by the State Division
for Air Quality.
      PRIORITY I REGION. A region classified as Priority I in 401 KAR 50:020,
Appendix A.
      RECOGNIZED AGRICULTURAL, SILVICULTURAL, RANGE, ECOLOGICAL, or WILDLIFE
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Burning recognized by the State Department of
Agriculture, the United States Department of Agriculture, the State Division of
Forestry, the United States Forest Service, the State Department of Fish and
Wildlife, the State Nature Preserves Commission, or the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service as necessary to promote cultivation of crops, range, and
forest lands, weed and understory abatement, and pest control and prevention.
      WOOD WASTE. Untreated wood and untreated wood products, including free
stumps (whole or chipped), felled trees, tree limbs (whole or chipped), bark,
sawdust, chips, scraps, slabs, millings and shavings. WOOD WASTE does not
include: yard waste; construction, renovation, or demolition wastes; or clean
lumber.
      YARD WASTE. Grass, grass clippings, bushes, shrubs, and clippings from
bushes and shrubs, which come from residential, commercial, retail,
institutional, or industrial sources as part of maintaining yards or other
private or public lands. YARD WASTE does not include: construction, renovation,
and demolition wastes; or clean lumber.
(Ord. 01-2017, passed 2-22-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 149.400, 224.10-100, 224.20-100, 224.20-110,
224.20-120
§ 93.36 ALLOWABLE OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below and §
93.37, open burning shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Subject to the limitations contained in this section and the
restrictions contained in §
93.37, open burning shall be allowed for:
      (1)   Fires set for the cooking of food for human consumption;
      (2)   Fires set for recreational or ceremonial purposes;
      (3)   Small fires set by construction and other workers for comfort
heating purposes if:
         (a)   The ambient temperature is below 50ºF;
         (b)   Excessive or unusual smoke is not created;
         (c)   Only clean lumber or vegetative matter is burned; and
         (d)   The fire is burned in a container not exceeding 55 gallons in
size.
      (4)   Fires set for the purpose of weed abatement, disease, and pest
prevention;
      (5)   Fires set for prevention of a fire hazard, including the disposal
of dangerous materials if no safe alternative is available;
      (6)   Fires set for the purpose of instruction and training of public and
industrial employees in the methods of fighting fires, as sat forth in §
93.38:
      (7)   Fires set for recognized agricultural, silvicultural, range,
ecological, and wildlife management practices;
      (8)   Fires set by individual homeowners for burning of leaves, except in
cities greater than 8,000 in population located in a Priority I Region;
      (9)   Fires for disposal of household rubbish, which shall not include
garbage, originating at dwellings of five family units or less, if the fires
are maintained by an occupant of the dwelling at the dwelling, except in cities
greater than 8,000 in population located in a Priority I Region;
      (10)   Fires set for the purpose of disposing of accidental spills or
leeks of crude oil, petroleum products, or other organic materials, and the
disposal of absorbent material used in their removal, if no other economically
feasible means of disposal is available and practical. Permission shall be
obtained from the cabinet prior to burning;
      (11)   Fires set for disposal of natural growth for land clearing and
maintenance, and trees and tree limbs felled by storms if no extraneous
materials, such as tires or heavy oil, which tend to produce dense smoke, are
used to cause ignition or aid combustion, and the burning is done on days when
conditions do not pose a threat of igniting a forest fire. In regions
classified Priority I, with respect to particulate matter pursuant to 401 KAR
60:020, Appendix A, the emissions from these fires shall not be equal to or
greater than 40% opacity;
      (12)   Heating ropes that are set on fire to repair steel rails during
cold weather; and
      (13)   Fires set by county or municipal governments to dispose of wood
waste or clean lumber. This activity shall not be considered in violation of
401 KAR 47:030, § 10.
(Ord. 01-2017, passed 2-22-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 149.400, 224.10-100, 224.20-100, 224.20-110,
224.20-120
§ 93.37 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   For those counties, or portions of counties, which are, or were
previously, designated moderate non-attainment for the one-hour ozone or non-
attainment for the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NMQS) PM10
(particulate matter) or those counties, or portions of counties, which are, or
were designated non-attainment for the eight-hour ozone or PM2.5 national
ambient air quality standards, pursuant to 401 KAR 51:010, fires may be set in
accordance with this administrative regulation except during the months of May,
June, July, August, and September. During these months, the only open burning
activities allowed shall be:
      (1)   Fires set for the cooking of food for human consumption;
      (2)   Fires set for prevention of a fire hazard, including disposal of
dangerous materials, if no safe alternative is available;
      (3)   Fires set for the purpose of bona fide instruction and training of
public and industrial employees in the methods of fighting fires;
      (4)   Fires set for recognized agricultural, silvicultural, range,
ecological, and wildlife management practices;
      (5)   Fires set for the purpose of disposing of accidental spills or
leaks of crude oil, petroleum products, or other organic materials, and the
disposal of absorbent material used in their removal, if no other economically
feasible means of disposal be available and practical. Permission shall be
obtained from the cabinet prior to burning; and
      (6)   Fires set for recreational or ceremonial purposes.
   (B)   Open burning shall comply with the fire hazard season requirements of
KRS 149.400.
   (C)   Open burning for land clearing purposes associated with residential,
commercial, or industrial development shall be limited to a maximum of two
contiguous acres at any one time.
   (D) This subchapter shall not authorize open burning that is prohibited by
any local ordinance.
(Ord. 01-2017, passed 2-22-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 149.400, 224.10-100, 224.20-100, 224.20-110,
224.20-120
§ 93.38 PROCEDURES FOR FIRE TRAINING.
   Burning conducted in conjunction with training for public, private, and
industrial firefighters shall be subject to the following criteria.
   (A)   Excluding fire training that has been approved by the State Fire
Marshal, or which has been certified by the State Fire Commission, or which is
conducted in accordance with standards adopted by the National Wildfire
Coordinating Group, any entity intending to conduct fire training shall submit
written notification to the local Division for Air Quality regional office a
minimum of 15 days prior to the scheduled training. The written notification
shall state the location and the date of the proposed fire training, the name
and contact information for the on-site training coordinator, the number of
firefighters to be trained, the goals and the objectives of the training, and a
brief summary of what is to be taught.
   (B)   Any materials that contain asbestos shall not be burned.
   (C)   Materials likely to produce hazardous or toxic emissions shall be
removed prior to the fire training burning event, to the extent practicable,
and properly disposed.
   (D)   Excluding fire training approved by the State Division of Forestry or
the State Fire Marshal, or which has been certified by the State Fire
Commission, or which is conducted in accordance with standards adopted by the
National Wildfire Coordinating Group, entities conducting fire training shall
be limited to one burning event related to training per year for every ten
firefighters under their supervision.
   (E)   Excluding fire training approved by the State Division of Forestry or
the State Fire Marshal, or which has been certified by the State Fire
Commission, or which is conducted in accordance with standards adopted by the
National Wildfire Coordinating Group, between May 1 and September 30, fire
training shall not be conducted in any counties, or portions of counties, which
are, or were previously, designated moderate non-attainment for ozone, or
designated, or previously designated, non-attainment for the eight-hour ozone
or PM2.5 national ambient air quality standard, pursuant to 401 KAR 51:010.
(Ord. 01-2017, passed 2-22-2017) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see KRS 149.400, 224.10-100, 224.20-100, 224.20-110,
224.20-120
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
93.01 through
93.07 and/or
93.20 through
93.21 for which no specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not
more than $500.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.03 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder, or any order issued thereunder, or
who knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the
provisions of those sections, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a
fine of not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
   
94.06   Throwing trash in Pigeon Roost Creek
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling, or causing to be hauled, dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled, in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 THROWING TRASH IN PIGEON ROOST CREEK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or dispose of any tin cans,
trash, or rubbish in Pigeon Roost Creek within the city limits.
(Ord. passed 6-21-1948) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine of not more than $500. Each day the violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Establishment of city policy
   
95.02   Duties of Director of Community Development
§ 95.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY POLICY.
   It is the public policy of the city to promote fair treatment and equal
opportunity in housing for all persons regardless of race, color, religion,
national origin, handicap, or sex.
(Ord. 219, passed 10-8-1979)
§ 95.02 DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.
   The Director of Community Development shall have and perform the following
duties:
   (A)   Obtain information concerning discrimination in housing or in the
operation of the HUD community development grant program against any persons on
account of race, color, religion, national origin, handicap, or sex; and
   (B)   Assist any person alleging discrimination to prepare a complaint and
refer it to the State Commission on Human Rights for all necessary
investigation, conciliation, hearing, or enforcement, in accordance with state
and federal law.
(Ord. 219, passed 10-8-1979)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSING
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   PLACES OF ENTERTAINMENT
      
115.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required; fees
   
110.03   Payment of fee
   
110.04   Filing employer returns
   
110.05   Credits for license payments
   
110.06   Exemptions
   
110.07   Injunctive relief
   
110.08   Refund or overpayment application
   
110.09   Revocation of license
   
110.10   Authority of Finance Officer
   
110.11   Confidential information
   
110.12   Schedule of license fees
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A membership, limited partnership, or joint venture of any
other form of unincorporated enterprise, owned or engaged in by two or more
people.
   BUSINESS. An enterprise, activity, or undertaking of any nature conducted
for gain or profit, or conducted by an individual, partnership, association, or
any other entity, but shall not include:
      (1)   The usual activities of boards of trade, chambers of commerce,
trade associations, or unions (or other association performing the services
usually performed by trade associations or unions);
      (2)   Community chest funds or foundations; or
      (3)   Corporations or associations organized and operated exclusively for
religious, charitable, scientific, or cruelty to children or animals, or not-
for-profit 501(c)(3) agencies, or clubs or fraternal organizations operated
exclusively for social, literary, education, or fraternal purposes, where no
part of the earnings or income or receipts for such units, groups, or
association inures to the benefit of any private shareholders or individual.
   CITY CLERK/TREASURER. The Clerk/Treasurer of the city.
   COMPENSATION. The amount paid to any natural person for services rendered,
in money or money’s worth, regardless of the form or method of payment. It
includes the receipt (actual or constructive) by an individual of the earnings
of an individual business enterprise, or of a partnership.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the commonwealth of the state, or any other state,
territory, or foreign country or dependency.
   EMPLOYEE. Includes any person engaging in or following any trade,
occupation, profession, or activity as defined herein.
   EMPLOYER. Includes any individual, person, partnership, association,
corporation, governmental body, or unit, administration, or agency, or any
other activity or any other entity, who or that employs one or more person on a
salary, wage, commission, or other compensation basis.
   FINANCE OFFICER. The person appointed by the city to enforce rules and
regulations related to occupational and business licenses.
   LICENSEE. Includes any person required to file a return or to pay a license
fee under this chapter.
   NET PROFIT. The income from the operation of a business or enterprise after
providing for all costs and expenses incurred in the conduct thereof shall be
the same as reported for state income tax purposes, excluding items exempted
under this chapter, but without deduction of taxes based on income.
   NON-RESIDENT. An individual, corporation, fiduciary, or association, or
other entity domiciled outside the city.
   OCCUPATION, TRADE, PROFESSION, or OTHER ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Includes the doing of any kind of work, the rendering of any kind
of personal service, or the holding of any kind of position or job within the
city, by any clerk, laborer, tradesman, manager, official, or other employee,
including any non-resident of the city who is employed by an employer as
defined in this chapter, where the relationship between the individual
performing the services, and the person for whom such services are rendered,
is, as to those services, the legal relationship of employer and employees.
      (2)   Includes also a partner of the firm or officer who receives a
salary for his or her personal services rendered in the business of such firm
or corporation.
      (3)   Includes an officer or employee employed either by election or
appointment, by the federal, state, county, or city, where the services of such
official or employee are rendered within the city.
   PERSON. Any natural person, fiduciary, association, or corporation. Whenever
the word PERSON is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty in the
nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership or
other form or unincorporated enterprise, means the partners or members thereof,
and as applied to corporations, means the officers and directors thereof.
   RESIDENT. Any individual, association, corporation, or other entity
domiciled or having a business situs in the city.
   SALARIES, WAGES, COMMISSIONS, or OTHER COMPENSATIONS.
      (1)   Includes the total gross amount of all salaries, wages, tips,
gratuities, commissions, bonuses, share of net partnership receipts or
withdrawals, corporate dividend paid in lieu of salaries or wages, and any and
all other payments or other considerations which a person receives from, or is
entitled to, for any work done or personal services rendered, in any trade,
occupation or profession, or any other activity, including all deductions,
whether for tax, insurance, or other.
      (2)   Amounts paid to traveling salesperson or other workers as allowance
or reimbursement for travel or other expenses incurred in the business of the
employer, except to the extent of the excess of such amounts over such expenses
actually incurred and accounted for by the employee to his or her employer are
excluded from the foregoing definition.
   SALES. Net sales of merchandise or of services, or both, computed by
whatever method of accounting is authorized for federal income tax purposes.
   TAXPAYER. Any person or business made liable for taxation or for the payment
of amounts withheld from employees under the terms of this chapter.
   YEAR or TAX YEAR. The calendar year or the fiscal year (employed by a
business subject to the license tax imposed by this chapter) if the taxpayer
reports for federal income tax purposes on the basis of a period other than a
calendar year. If, under any of the provisions of this chapter, a period of
less than a full year is involved, the full-year basis of computation shall be
employed and the fraction of a year allocated by employing the ratio of the
number of full months of tax liability to 12 (the number of months in a year).
(Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   (A)   Annual license fee. Every person or other entity engaged in any
occupation, trade, profession, or other activity in the city shall pay to the
city an annual license fee for the privilege of engaging in such activities in
the city.
   (B)   License fee calculation. The license fee shall be measured by 1% of
all salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensations earned by every
person in the city for work done, or services performed or rendered, in the
city.
   (C)   Services rendered within and outside of the city. Where salaries,
wages, commissions, and other compensations and net profits are earned for work
performed, or service rendered, both within and outside the city, the license
fees shall be measured by the part of the salaries, wages, commissions, and
other compensations and net profits as is earned as a result of work performed
or services rendered in the city. The license fees shall be computed by
obtaining the percentage which the compensation or net profits for worked
performed, or services rendered within the city bears to the total compensation
earned or net profits generated.
   (D)   Income not subject to license fee.
      (1)   Pension, interest, and dividend income. Income from pensions,
interest, and dividends is not subject to this occupational license fee, within
the meaning of this chapter.
      (2)   Domestic servants. No license fee under this chapter shall be
required of domestic servants employed in private homes.
      (3)   Fiduciary. A fiduciary who holds in trust property, monies, or
properties to which another has a beneficial interest, or who receives or
controls income from another person is not subject to the license fee imposed
by this chapter, except where the fiduciary operates a business which is
subject to a license fee for doing business within the city. The remainder of
the trust is hereby exempt from any payment or annual occupational fees.
      (4)   Limited rental income. Income derived from rental of one apartment
or one house only shall be exempt from the license fee.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007)
§ 110.03 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   (A)   Quarterly payment of license fee.
      (1)   Each employer who employs one or more persons, but less than 50
persons, within the city shall deduct at least monthly (or when the employee is
paid, if more often than monthly), the license fee due from each employee
measured by the amount of salaries, wages, commissions, or compensations due by
the employer to the employee.
      (2)   The amount deducted shall be paid by the employer to the city on a
quarterly basis the periods ending on the last day of March, June, September,
and December of each year. Payment shall be due before the last day of the
month next following the quarter of the deduction.
   (B)   Monthly payment of license fee. Each employer who employs 50 or more
persons within the city shall deduct at least monthly (or when the employee is
paid, if more often than monthly), the license fee due from each employee
measured by the amount of salaries, wages, commission, or compensations due by
the employer to the employee. The amount deducted shall be paid to the city by
the employer on a monthly basis. Payment required shall be due on or before the
fifteenth day of the month next succeeding the deduction.
   (C)   License record requirements.
      (1)   Employer record requirement. During the month of January of each
year, the employer shall make a return to the Finance Officer which contains
the name and Social Security number (or other federal identification number) of
each employee of the employer during the preceding calendar year and sets forth
the amount of salaries, wages, commissions, or other compensations earned
during the preceding calendar year by each employee.
      (2)   Employee record requirement. Each employer who has deducted the
license fee from the wages, salaries, commissions, or other compensation
referred to above shall furnish to the employee a statement showing the amount
of salary earned and license fee deducted and paid by the employer during the
preceding calendar year on or before the last day of January of each year.
      (3)   Failure to withhold taxes. The failure or omission of any employer
to deduct the license fee shall not relieve the employee from the payment of
the license fee in compliance with this regulation. In which case, the filing
of returns and payment thereof may be fixed in this chapter or established by
the Finance Officer.
      (4)   Contract labor. Any employer who employs contract labor and does
not withhold license fees must furnish a copy of Form Schedule 1099-Misc
(miscellaneous income) to the Finance Officer by February 28 of each year.
   (D)   Withholding requirements of governmental employers.
      (1)   Fifty or more employees. Government agencies, postal service, and
forest service are not required to withhold license fees unless 50 or more
employees are employed.
      (2)   Payment required on quarterly basis. Employees of government
agencies within the city must pay the license fee on a quarterly basis. Failure
to receive a quarterly notice from the city does not relieve the employee from
the payment of the license fee. The forms can be obtained from the Finance
Officer.
   (E)   Contractors bond or deposit. Contractors not previously established
with the city and who are not city residents must furnish a bond or cash
deposit with the city of 1.5% of total expected payroll before any activity or
the issuance of any building permit.
   (F)   Failure to file penalty. An employer who deducts and withholds the
city occupational license fee from one or more persons under his or her employ
and who fails to file a return and make payment therewith shall, upon
conviction thereof, and in addition to the penalties prescribed herein, be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (G)   Lien. Any amount owed under the provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a lien against the property of the liable taxpayer.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 FILING EMPLOYER RETURNS.
   (A)   Designating fiscal year. Where the fiscal year of the business,
profession, or other activity differs from the calendar year (and licensee
files state income tax return for such other fiscal period), the license fee
shall be measured by the net profits of that fiscal year.
   (B)   Return due date. Where the return is made for a fiscal year or any
other period different from the calendar year, the return shall be made on or
before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end of this fiscal
year or other period. The license return shall also show the amount of license
fee imposed by this chapter. The first return shall show only compensation and
net profits earned to the close of the calendar or fiscal period.
   (C)   Deduction of license fee. At the time of filing, the person making the
return shall pay to the city the amount of license fees shown as due. Where any
portion of the license fee has been paid, credit for the amount shall be
deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the balance, if any, shall be
due and payable at the time of the filing of the return. Credit balance due to
the deduction of initial license fee is not refundable, nor can it be used for
any subsequent year.
   (D)   Filing extensions.
      (1)   The Finance Officer shall have the authority to extend the time of
filing the net profits license fee return. The extension shall be upon the
written request of the licensee and shall be received by the Finance Officer
prior to the due date of the net profit license fee return.
      (2)   When applying for an extension, a written request shall be
accompanied by a copy of the appropriate state and/or federal applications for
extension. Regardless of the number of extensions approved, all license fees
remaining unpaid after they have become due shall bear interest at the rate of
18% per annum until paid.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 CREDITS FOR LICENSE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Conflicts with former ordinances. Any licensee under former ordinances
who, because of the enactment of this chapter, is, or will be, prevented from
the use of the license for the term for which it was issued may apply in
writing for credit for that portion of the annual license fees to be paid which
is applicable proportionately to the unexpired portion of the license fee. He
or she may then credit the amount of money representative to the unexpired
portion of the license fee to any fees due under this section.
   (B)   Requirement to pay fee. Nothing in this section is intended to relieve
any licensee of any fee, or portion of a fee, which he or she may have accrued
under existing ordinances prior to their repeal. Nothing contained in this
chapter applies to or affects any franchise, permit, or contract which has been
granted by the city for a period of longer than one year.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Old age or retirement payment. Periodic payments, commonly recognized
as old age or retirement pensions, made to persons retired from service after
reaching a specified age or a stated period of employment are not subject to
the license fee.
   (B)   Disability and unemployment.
      (1)   Disability, sickness, and accident benefits and unemployment
compensation, and other insurance payments received for personal injuries or
property losses, are not subject to the license fee.
      (2)   Payments by an employer to employees under disability, sickness,
and accident benefit plans are not subject to the license fee. Payments
received for personal injuries and property losses are not subject to the
license fee.
      (3)   Unemployment compensation payments by the commonwealth, or any
other agent, are not subject to the license fee.
   (C)   Death benefits. Death benefits payable to the beneficiary of an
employee or to his or her estate, whether payable in a single sum or otherwise,
are not subject to the license fee.
   (D)   Worker’s compensation benefits. Benefits arising under the Worker’s
Compensation Act, being KRS Chapter 342, as compensation for disabilities
sustained during the course of employment, together with any amount of damages
received by suit or agreement, on account of such liability, are not subject to
the license fee.
   (E)   Employee contributions to § 401(K) plans. Employee contributions to §
401(K) plans which are properly qualified and approved by the United States
Internal Revenue Service.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007)
§ 110.07 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Failure to pay fee. In the event the person, firm, corporation,
partnership, or other entity fails or refuses for any reason to pay when due
any tax or fee imposed or required by this chapter, the city may, upon
application to a court of competent jurisdiction, seek injunctive or other
extraordinary relief to require said person, firm, corporation, partnership, or
other entity to cease and desist from operating or conducting in any respect
the business enterprise within the corporate limits of the city for which the
tax or fee is due, until the time as the tax or fee, plus appropriate penalties
and interest, has been paid in full.
   (B)   Liable for court cost. Should the city be required to pursue the
extraordinary relief, the person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other
entity liable for payment of the tax or fee shall be liable for all court costs
incurred by the city and, under appropriate circumstances, reasonable
attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 REFUND OR OVERPAYMENT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Requesting refund. Any person, employer, employee, or licensee who
believes that he or she has made or permitted an overpayment of his or her
liability for any occupational license fee required by this chapter may apply
for refund of the overpayment; provided he or she files an amended return. All
individuals shall set forth, in detail, the full explanation of the claimed
overpayment of his or her liability within one year of the date the overpayment
is made, or the date his or her occupational license fee payment was due,
whichever occurs first.
   (B)   Refund approval. If a refund has been properly claimed, the Finance
Officer shall refund the overpayment.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007)
§ 110.09 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A general business license issued by the city pursuant to this chapter
to any person, partnership, corporation, or other business entity may be
revoked for the violation of, or failure to comply with, any provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of information of a violation of, or noncompliance
with, the provisions of this chapter by a license holder, the Finance Officer
will notify the license holder in writing of the violation or non-compliance,
and the license holder will have 20 days thereafter to demonstrate that there
is no violation or non-compliance, or to remedy the violation or noncompliance.
      (2)   Upon the license holder’s failure to do so within 20 days, the
Mayor shall issue an order revoking the license holder’s general business
license.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 AUTHORITY OF FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   Power to prescribe regulations.
      (1)   The Finance Officer is hereby charged with the enforcement of
provisions of this chapter, and is hereby empowered to prescribe, adopt,
promulgate, and enforce rules and regulations relating to any matter pertaining
to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, provisions for the re-examination and correction
of returns to which an underpayment or overpayment is claimed or found to have
been made.
      (2)   The rules and regulations as promulgated by him or her shall be
binding upon the licensee and employers; provided, however, all such rules,
regulations, and decisions shall be subject to the consent and approval of the
Mayor.
   (B)   Authority to examine finance records. The Finance Officer, or any
agent or employee designated by the Finance Officer in writing, may examine the
books, papers, and records of any employer, or supposed employer or of any
licensee, or supposed licensee, in order to determine the accuracy of any
return made; or, if no return was made, to ascertain the amount of the license
fee imposed by the terms of this chapter as the Finance Officer may deem
reasonably necessary. The Finance Officer may enforce this right by application
to the appropriate court having jurisdiction over these matters.
   (C)   Other duties. In order to appropriately effect the provisions of this
chapter, the Finance Officer shall:
      (1)   Provide formal presentation not less than quarterly to the Mayor
and the City Council with information on budget performance, revenues,
projections, and any other information as requested by the Mayor or the City
Council;
      (2)   Prepare and distribute, at the second monthly City Council meeting
of each month, a performance spreadsheet as specified by the Mayor and City
Council; and
      (3)   On an annual basis, provide to the Finance Committee of the City
Council an action plan to secure appropriate revenue collections from license
fee payers.
   (D)   Annual audits. The Finance Officer shall, on an annual basis, perform
an audit of not less than 10% of all license fee payers.
   (E)   Collection and records. It shall be the duty of the Finance Officer to
collect license fees imposed by this chapter, and the Finance Officer shall
keep records showing the amount paid by each licensee and employer and the date
of the receipt.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007)
§ 110.11 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Confidentiality of information. Any information, including returns,
documents, or payments made pursuant thereto, and any other information gained
by the City Clerk/Treasurer, Finance Officer, or any other official, agent, or
employee of the city as a result of any return, investigation, hearing, or
verification required or authorized by this chapter, shall be confidential
except in accordance with proper judicial order.
   (B)   Requirements to disclose information. The Finance Officer may disclose
to the Commissioner of Revenue of the State, or his or her duly authorized
agent, or to the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, or his or her
duly authorized agent, all information, and extend the right to inspect any of
the books and records of the city to the Commissioner of the Revenue of the
state and to the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service, who must grant
to the city the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and
records of the Internal Revenue Service and maintain the privileged character
of the information furnished to them.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 SCHEDULE OF LICENSE FEES.
   An annual license fee of $25 is hereby imposed for all trades, professions,
and businesses in the city.
(Ord. 3-02, passed 9-30-2002; Ord. 04-23, passed 7-17-2023)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation engaging in any
business, profession, or manufacturing of goods and articles, or the doing of
anything for which a license is required, without such license, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500, or
imprisoned in jail not less than one, nor more than 30 days, or both, for each
violation and each day such business, occupation, profession, trade, or
manufacturing of goods and articles is engaged in, or the doing of anything for
which a license is required, without such license, shall constitute a separate
offense. No prosecution shall be a bar to a civil action for the recovery of
the required license fee or fees.
   (B)   Any employer who is found to be guilty of the misdemeanor described in
§
110.03(F) shall, upon conviction thereof and in addition to the criminal
penalties prescribed in §
110.03, be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $500, or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both, for each offense.
   (C)   All license fees described in §
110.04(D)(2) remaining unpaid for 30 days after the original due date or
approved extension date, whichever is later, shall be subject to a penalty of
10% of the amount of the unpaid license fees, or $10, whichever is greater.
   (D)   Any person or agent divulging confidential information, as described
in §
110.11(A), shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less
than $50, nor more than $200, or imprisonment not to exceed 60 days, or both,
at the discretion of the court, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
dismissed from employment by the city.
(Ord. 9-1982, passed 6-22-1982; Ord. 01-07, passed 1-31-2007)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to: wares; and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of that business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means
carrying goods for sale, making sales, or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (2)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking,
or attempting to take, orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future
or for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is
not a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in that activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk/Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
the applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample, as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom the goods are manufactured or grown,
and where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, the individual identified in division
(A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above, has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor, and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   Any applicant for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
his or her application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
whom the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as
the representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to said
applications, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has done or possesses any of
the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05. The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“licensed peddler” or “licensed solicitor,” the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during the time that he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500. Each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by PAWNBROKERS to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   (A)   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the
business of a pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good
and sufficient surety to be approved by the City Council, in the penal sum of
$1,000.
   (B)   This bond shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the
provisions of this chapter and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not
inconsistent with this chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The register shall:
      (1)   Be reported to an online, internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
      (2)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and:
         (a)   A driver’s license number;   
         (b)   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
         (c)   If the identification specified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)
(b) above is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted of all
persons who have left any property that has been pawned or sold.
      (3)   At all times be available to the inspection of any law enforcement
officer of the city when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
      (4)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public, or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division (A)(4), a full description includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Color;
         (d)   Size;
         (e)   Manufacturer;
         (f)   Vintage; and
         (g)   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
   (B)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the merchandise
shall be held for a minimum of 12 days before being resold.
   (C)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (D)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned, by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying the person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker, as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers, and for other expenses,
losses, and incidental costs associated with servicing these loans. Further,
this fee, when made and collected, shall not be deemed as interest for any
purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive, or
contract for any interest or consideration greater than that allowed by this
section.
(KRS 226.080) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for the payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter,
unless otherwise provided by KRS 226.100.
   (B)   However, county police, for the purpose of locating stolen goods, may
carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $50, nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited
to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(D) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of
not less than $20, nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   License fee imposed
   
113.02   Fee for companies issuing life insurance policies
   
113.03   Fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date and interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   There is imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the privilege
of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits of the
city on a calendar year basis.
(Ord. 3-1984, passed 9-18-1984)
§ 113.02 FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE POLICIES.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 10% of the first year’s premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Ord. 3-1984, passed 9-18-1984)
§ 113.03 FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 10% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policy holders.
   (B)   Any license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall not include
premiums are received for insuring employers against liability for personal
injuries to their employees, or death caused thereby, under the provisions of
the Worker’s Compensation Act, being KRS Chapter 342, and shall not include
premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228, or the premiums paid to any state
employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS Chapter 18A, for the purpose of
providing health benefits to state employees.
(Ord. 3-1984, passed 9-18-1984)
§ 113.04 DUE DATE AND INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 3-1984, passed 9-18-1984)
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 3-1984, passed 9-18-1984)
CHAPTER 114: PLACES OF ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   
114.01   Closing hours
§ 114.01 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   In accordance with KRS Chapter 83A, an entertainment business shall
not operate and shall be closed between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:30 a.m.,
meaning that no patrons of said business shall be inside the business between
the above-stated hours.
   (B)   ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS is defined, for the purpose of this section, as
any business that operates for recreational purposes only and not as a retail
business.
   (C)   This section shall not have any effect on any provisions relating to
the sale alcoholic beverages, specifically those in Chapter 115 of this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. 05-2020, passed 9-28-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross reference:
   Hours of sale for alcoholic beverages, see §
115.072
CHAPTER 115: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.001   Purpose
   
115.002   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
115.003   Appeals
License Application Process
   
115.015   License requirements
   
115.016   Certain special licenses; definitions
   
115.017   Application; intent
   
115.018   Conditions for license
   
115.019   Refusal of issue or renewal
   
115.020   Fees
   
115.021   Fees; payment process
License Maintenance
   
115.035   Form of license
   
115.036   Change of information
   
115.037   Renewal; reissue
   
115.038   Revocation and suspension
   
115.039   Revocation and suspension; proceedings
   
115.040   Transfer or assignment
   
115.041   Review; records
   
115.042   Dormancy
Other Registrations and Permits
   
115.055   Malt beverage keg; identification
   
115.056   Malt beverage keg registration and sale of
   
115.057   Sidewalk café permit
   
115.058   Sidewalk café permit; conditions
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages
   
115.070   Mandatory service training
   
115.071   License to be displayed
   
115.072   Hours of sale
   
115.073   Minors; restrictions
   
115.074   Legal transactions
   
115.075   Prizes and premiums
   
115.076   Depreciated prices
   
115.077   Selling to certain persons prohibited
Licensee Property Requirements and Restrictions
   
115.090   Signs
   
115.091   Advertising
   
115.092   Security
   
115.093   Employment restrictions
   
115.094   Lavatory facilities
   
115.095   Drive-through outlets
Other Restricted Activities and Violations
   
115.110   Radio receiving apparatus
   
115.111   Gambling; adult entertainment
   
115.112   Disorderly conduct
   
115.113   Consumption on premises
   
115.114   Violations; enforcement
 
   
115.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage manufacture
and sales pursuant to authorization under KRS Chapters 241 through 244.
   (B)   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
alcoholic beverage control laws (KRS Chapters 241 through 244) of the
commonwealth, and all amendments and supplements thereto.
   (C)   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture and
traffic in both malt beverages and distilled spirits and wine where the context
permits such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the
licensee, or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent, or person in charge of any
licensed premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions,
requirements, and penalties of any other ordinance of the city, or of any
statues of the state relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   The provisions of the alcoholic beverage control law of the
commonwealth (KRS Chapters 241 through 244) and all amendments and supplements
thereto, are adopted so far as applicable to this chapter except as otherwise
lawfully provided herein.
   (E)   The City Council may promulgate rules and regulations, and/or
amendments thereto, as is in its discretion in order to ensure the proper
implementation of this chapter. Such will be done as according to local, state,
and federal law.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.002 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160 and KRS 241.170, there is hereby created the
office of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator (City ABC
Administrator).
   (B)   The Mayor of the city appoints the Chief of Police, an employee of the
city, to serve as the City Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) Administrator,
pursuant to KRS 241.170.
   (C)   If the Chief of Police is not appointed by the Mayor to assume the
role of City ABC Administrator, then the Mayor shall request that the City
Council approve a new appointment or that it shall add the position of City ABC
Administrator, as well as any other additional personnel to assist the City ABC
Administrator, to the city’s Pay and Classification Plan, and a salary range
for each position.
   (D)   The City ABC Administrator may, from time to time, appoint such
additional personnel, such as alcoholic beverage control investigators, as is
necessary to assist him or her in the administration of this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   The City ABC Administrator shall have the same duties and
functions regarding local license applications and renewals as the State
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control with respect to state licenses.
      (2)   The City ABC Administrator shall have the same duties and functions
regarding local license penalization as the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board
with respect to state license penalization.
   (F)   To prevent potential conflicts of interests, no person shall be a City
ABC Administrator, an investigator, or an employee of the city under the
supervision of the City ABC Administrator, who would be disqualified to be a
member of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board under state law set forth in KRS
241.100.
   (G)   The City ABC Administrator shall have authority delegated by the
Mayor, and as authorized under KRS Chapter 241 through 244. The City ABC
Administrator, and his or her investigators, shall have jurisdiction
coextensive with the boundaries of the city.
   (H)   The City ABC Administrator, and his or her investigators, shall have
available at all reasonable times for their inspection all books and records
required to be maintained by licenses under KRS 244.150, and the City ABC
Administrator shall receive copies of all reports submitted by the licensee to
the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
   (I)   (1)   The City ABC Administrator, before entering upon his or her
duties, shall take the oath as prescribed in the State Constitution § 228.
      (2)   The City ABC Administrator, and any employee delegated or assigned
to the City ABC Administration, may also be asked to execute a bond in such
penal sum as the city deems necessary, unless said person is already covered
under the city’s active bonds as required under Kentucky Revised Statutes in
regards to officials and employees of the city.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.003 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Appeals from the orders of the City ABC Administrator may be
taken to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board by filing a notice of
appeal with the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board within 30 days after the
decision or order of the City ABC Administrator is mailed or delivered by
personal service.
      (2)   (a)   The notice of appeal shall specify the City ABC Administrator
by name and shall identify the decision or order, or part of the decision or
order, being appealed. The notice shall contain a certificate that a copy of
the notice has been served on the City ABC Administrator and shall be
accompanied by a copy of the decision or order being appealed.
         (b)   Matters at issue shall be heard by the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board as upon an original proceeding
         (c)    Appeals from decisions or orders of the City ABC Administrator
shall be governed by KRS Chapter 13B.
   (B)   (1)   As provided by law, no appealed City ABC Administrator order or
decision, or resulting State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board order, shall
become effective or final until all Alcoholic Beverage Control Board appeals,
court appeals, or appeal times shall have been exhausted.
      (2)   When an Alcoholic Beverage Control Board order becomes final and
effective, the City ABC Administrator shall enter such orders, and take such
action, as required by the final order of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
LICENSE APPLICATION PROCESS
§ 115.015 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall cause, permit, or engage in any of the actions,
business, or transactions authorized by such city and state licenses within the
city without both a valid city license and a valid state license.
   (B)   The fee for each of the first five supplemental bar licenses shall be
the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge for
each supplemental license issued in excess of five to the same licensee at the
same premises.
   (C)   The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license may
obtain a non-quota Type IV malt beverage drink license for a fee of $50. The
holder of a non-quota Type IV malt beverage drink license may obtain a non-
quota retail malt beverage package license for a fee of $50.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.016 CERTAIN SPECIAL LICENSES; DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIMITED GOLF COURSE LICENSE. May be issued pursuant to KRS Chapter 243 if an
establishment meets the following conditions: a golf course with nine or 18
holes that meets United States Golf Association criteria as a regulation golf
course. A LIMITED GOLF COURSE LICENSE shall authorize the licensee to purchase,
receive, possess, and sell distilled spirits, wine, and malt beverages at
retail by the drink for consumption on the licensed premises.
   LIMITED RESTAURANT LICENSE. Any be issued pursuant to KRS Chapter 243 if
said restaurant meets the definition, as set forth in KRS 241.010(37): a
facility where the usual and customary business is the serving of meals to
consumers, which has a bona fide kitchen facility, which receives at least 70%
of its gross income from the sale of food, and which maintains seating capacity
of either 100 or 50 persons for dining.
   NON-QUOTA TYPE I RETAIL DRINK LICENSE. May be issued to, and in, the
following as defined by the Kentucky Revised Statutes to: a convention center
or a convention hotel complex; a horse racetrack; an automobile racetrack; a
railroad system; a commercial airlines system or charter flight system; a
qualified historic site; and/or a state park.
   NON-QUOTA TYPE II RETAIL DRINK LICENSE. May be issued pursuant to, and as
defined by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the following: a hotel that contains
at least 50 sleeping units, and which maintains 50% of its gross food and
drinks sales from the sale of food; a restaurant that maintains 50% of its
gross food and drinks sales from the sale of food; an airport; a riverboat; a
distiller; or a business located within, or adjacent to, an entertainment
destination center licensed premises.
   NON-QUOTA TYPE III RETAIL DRINK LICENSE. May be issued pursuant to, and
defined by, the Kentucky Revised Statutes to the following: a private club in
existence for longer than one year prior to the license application and which
excludes the general public; a dining car; and/or a bed and breakfast.
   NON-QUOTA TYPE IV RETAIL MALT BEVERAGE DRINK LICENSE.
      (1)   May be issued pursuant to, and as defined in, the Kentucky Revised
Statutes to the following: a holder of a quota retail drink license; a holder
of a microbrewery license; a holder of a small farm winery license; and any
other business wishing to sell malt beverages by the drink for consumption on
the premises.
      (2)   A NON-QUOTA RETAIL MALT BEVERAGE DRINK LICENSE shall not be issued
to any premises from which gasoline and lubricating oil are sold, or from which
the servicing and repair of motor vehicles is conducted, unless there is
maintained in inventory for sale on the premises at retail not less than $5,000
of food, groceries, and related products valued at cost.
   SPECIAL TEMPORARY LICENSE.
      (1)   May be issued only as set forth in KRS 243.260 and 804 KAR 4:250;
such a license may be issued to any regularly organized fair, exposition,
racing association, organized civic or community-sponsored event, or charitable
event as defined by applicable law. This license shall authorize the licensee
to exercise the privileges of a quota retail drink licensee and a non-quota
Type IV malt beverage drink licensee at designated premises for a specified and
limited time, which shall not exceed 30 days and which shall expire when the
qualifying event ends.
      (2)   All restrictions and prohibitions applying to a distilled spirits
and wine quota retail drink license or a non-quota retail malt beverage drink
license shall apply also to a SPECIAL TEMPORARY LICENSE, as described in this
section.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.017 APPLICATION; INTENT.
   (A)   Before an application for a license shall be considered, the applicant
must publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcoholic beverage license
in the newspaper used by the city for legal notices under KRS 424.120. The
notice shall include the following:
      (1)   The advertisement shall state the name and address of the applicant
and the name and address of each principal owner, partner, member, officer, and
director if the applicant is a partnership, limited partnership, limited
liability company, corporation, governmental agency, or other business entity
recognized by law;
      (2)   All advertisements shall state the location of the proposed
premises for which the licenses sought, and the type of business, and type of
license for which application is made; and
      (3)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper clipping
of the advertisement.
   (B)   (1)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the
City ABC Administrator.
      (2)   Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for renewals of
existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the forms provided by the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board and/or the City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board, both of which may be amended and supplemented from time to time by each
respective agency.
   (C)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such
information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is
sought, as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the State Department, and
the city, including as follows:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date residence was established in the state, if a resident of the
state;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
limited liability company (LLC), corporation, partnership, or other business
organization holding a license under this chapter;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or LLC,
corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province.
   (D)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cashier
check, or money order in the amount of $50 to cover the administrative
processing fees and subsequent required background check.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to the above specified information, the applicant
shall file, with the application, responses to any additional questions as may
be posed or prescribed by the City ABC Administrator.
      (2)   In addition to the information contained in the application, the
City ABC Administrator may require such other information as the City ABC
Administrator may, in his or her discretion, deem desirable, reasonable, or
appropriate to the consideration of the application.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.018 CONDITIONS FOR LICENSE.
   In addition to any other inquiries, conditions, or considerations required
or permitted by law:
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage
license or approve a renewal of a license until the applicant and his or her
place of business shall have been approved by a licensed building inspector,
and any and all other inspections required by the State Building Code or other
applicable law with the exception of pending construction.
      (1)   Applications approved by the City ABC Administrator based on
pending construction or development shall be null and void after 90 days of the
commitment to issue a license if the applicant fails to proceed in an orderly
fashion to initiate construction or development on the premises involved.
      (2)   Extensions may be granted by the ABC Administrator if he or she
deems appropriate in exercise of sound discretion based on facts and
circumstances surrounding each request. Any license approved on a pending
construction basis shall be subject to final inspections as required by law.
   (B)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any property taxes,
both real and personal, any other taxes due to the city, fees of any type, or
charges due to any department of the city at the time of issuing the license,
nor may any license be granted or renewed to sell upon any premises or
property, owned and occupied by the licensee upon which there are any of the
above delinquent payments due and owing to the city. Further, if a licensee
becomes delinquent in the payment of any of the above at any time during the
license period, the license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages may be subject
to revocation or suspension.
   (C)   No person, whether on applicant for license, or a licensee, shall, in
any manner, attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly influence, or intimidate the
City ABC Administrator, or any member of the city’s staff, mayor, or any State
ABC Administrator or staff, in any matter in which an application or proposed
application for license, or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This division is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the ABC Administrators are
public officials charged with the administration and enforcement of the law,
both local and state.
      (1)   Any person applying for a license, or contesting the revocation or
suspension of a license, who engages in attempted bribes, threats, attempted
undue influence or intimidation of a City or State ABC Administrator or staff
shall be disqualified from receiving or retaining a license, in addition to
other penalties as provided by law.
      (2)   The procedures for appeals shall apply to disqualifications,
revocations, or suspensions under this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall
be interpreted to prohibit monetary settlements in lieu of revocation or
suspension of license after a final order or revocation or suspension, where
the ordinance and applicable statutes allow for such payments in settlement.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.019 REFUSAL OF ISSUE OR RENEWAL.
   (A)   The City ABC Administrator may refuse to issue a license for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state
licenses according to KRS 243.450, 243.490, and 243.500, as well as violation
of any city ordinance regarding alcoholic beverage licensing, sales, or the
administration thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized under local, state, or federal law; or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or
her application.
   (B)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the City ABC
Administrator may appeal the refusal to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board pursuant to KRS 241.200 and KRS 243.550.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.020 FEES.
   (A)   For the privilege of causing, permitting, and engaging in the actions,
business, and transactions authorized thereby in regard to traffic in alcoholic
beverages in the city, and pursuant to the authority of KRS 243.070, there is
hereby established a corresponding city license for each of the state licenses
described in KRS 243.070.
   (B)   The fee for each city license shall be as set out in the schedule set
forth below. In the event KRS 243.070 shall hereafter be amended to authorize
additional city licenses, the fee for each city license shall be the maximum
fee provided in the statute as amended.
Type of City License License Fee
Type of City License                                             License Fee
Bottling house or bottling house storage license (per annum)     $1,000
Brewer’s license (per annum)                                   $500
Caterer’s license (per annum)                                  $800
Distiller’s license (per annum)                                $500
Limited golf course license (per annum)                          $1,200
Limited restaurant license (per annum)                           $1,200
Malt beverage distributor’s license (per annum)                $400
Microbrewery license (per annum)                                 $500
Non-quota retail malt beverage package license (per annum)       $200
Non-quota Type I retail drink license (per annum)                $2,000
Non-quota Type II retail drink license (per annum)               $1,000
Non-quota Type III retail drink license (per annum)              $300
Non-quota Type IV retail malt beverage drink license (per annum) $200
Qualified historic site (per annum)                              $1,030
Quota retail drink license (per annum)                           $1,000
Quota retail package license (per annum)                         $1,000
Rectifier’s license Class A (per annum)                        $3,000
Rectifier’s license Class B, craft rectifier (per annum)       $960
Special Sunday retail drink license (per annum)                  $300
Special temporary alcohol auction license (per event)            $100
Special temporary license (per event)                            $166
Wholesaler’s license (per annum)                               $3,000
 
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.021 FEES; PAYMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   Expiration of license; proration of fees.
      (1)   All city licenses, except temporary licenses, shall begin on May 1
of any year and shall expire on April 30 of the following year, as set forth in
KRS 243.090 and 804 KAR 4:390.
      (2)   Upon final approval of a licensee’s application, he or she shall be
charged the full fee for the respective license if six months or more remain
before the license is due to be renewed, and one-half the fee if less than six
months remain before the license is due to be renewed.
      (3)   No abatement of license fees shall be permitted to any person who
held a license of the same kind for the same premises in the preceding license
and who was actually doing business under the license during the last month of
a preceding license period.
   (B)   Payment of license fees; delinquency.
      (1)   No licensee shall enter into, or begin operating, any business for
which a license is required by this chapter until the license fee has been paid
in full. The fee for renewal of any license shall be paid with the renewal
application.
      (2)   Failure to pay any license fee within ten days after it becomes due
shall result in a penalty. Any licensee failing to pay the fees, including
penalties, within ten days after such fees are due may be subject to revocation
of the license and to other penalties as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Refund of fees.
      (1)   Pro-ration of fees shall be as provided for state licenses in KRS
243.090. In the event any licensee shall cease doing business for any reasons,
no refund of the city license fee shall be granted to such licensee.
      (2)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that results in the
suspension or revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to
refund any portion of the license fee.
   (D)   Regulatory license fee.
      (1)   (a)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory
license fee on the gross receipts of sale of alcoholic beverages of each
licensee who has a local license issued by the City ABC Administrator.
         (b)   The city’s regulatory license fee shall be 5% of gross sales of
all alcoholic beverages sold by the drink. In the case of retail sales of
package distilled spirits and wine, the regulatory license fee shall be 5% of
gross sales. The regulatory license fee shall be 5% on gross retail sales of
package malt beverages.
      (2)   (a)   Payment of said regulatory fee shall be remitted to the City
ABC Administrator, who shall transmit all fees to the City Clerk/Treasurer, or
his or her designee, for deposit into the appropriate designated account. The
city may use said fees as permitted by law, including, but not limited to: any
cost of additional policing; or regulatory or administrative expenses related
to the sale of alcoholic beverages in the city.
         (b)   The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any other
fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a credit against a regulatory
license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any license fee
shall be based on paperwork required by the local and/or State ABC
Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to: tax returns; and
financial statements.
         (c)   Said paperwork and payment will be due according to the schedule
set forth by the Mayor, or his or her designee, which may be set at, but is not
limited to time periods consisting of a monthly or quarterly billing by the
local Alcoholic Beverage Control office and/or the city.
      (3)   Failure to pay such remittance within ten days of the due date
constitutes a violation and shall subject a licensee to suspension or
revocation.
      (4)   Interest at the rate of 10% per annum will apply to any late
payments.
   (E)   Disposition of fees and any other type of payment to the city. The
City ABC Administrator shall transmit all fees and any other types of payment
made to the city upon collection to the City Clerk/Treasurer, or his or her
designee, for deposit into the appropriate designated account.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
LICENSE MAINTENANCE
§ 115.035 FORM OF LICENSE.
   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be provided by the City ABC
Administrator, but at the least shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the licensee;
   (B)   The number of the license;
   (C)   The type of license;
   (D)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
   (E)   The expiration date of the license;
   (F)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located; and
   (G)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property or
vested right, and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.036 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   If, after a license to individuals or to a sole proprietor has been
issued, there is a change in any fact required to be set forth in the
application, a verified amendment, in writing, giving notice of the change
shall be filed with the City ABC Administrator within ten days of the change.
   (B)   Since a number of licenses issued by the city are in the name of
corporations or other business organizations, it is necessary that ownership
changes in such organizations be reported to the City ABC Administrator. The
City ABC Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person to whom the
ownership or management is transferred in order to ascertain whether that
person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an alcoholic
beverage license.
   (C)   As used with regard to a partnership, corporation, LLC, or other
business organization herein, the word CHANGE is construed to include any
change in managers, partners, or LLC members, directors, or officers of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person secures 10% of
the outstanding ownership or stock. Transfer of more than 10% of the total
ownership or stock shall require a new license.
   (D)   The following information shall be required concerning any new
manager, partner, or LLC member, new director, officer, or person securing any
interest in alcoholic beverage license:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date residence was established in the state, if a resident of the
state. If a resident, indicate when residence was established;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
in any LLC, corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a
license under this act;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in any
LLC, corporation, partnership, or other business organization holding a license
in any other state or province.
   (E)   This information shall be filed with the City ABC Administrator as a
verified amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was
granted. Filing shall be made within ten days of any change of required
information.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.037 RENEWAL; REISSUE.
   (A)   Renewal of license. Every year, except in the case of the temporary
licenses, each licensee shall renew his, her, or its license.
      (1)   All renewal licenses must be on file with the City ABC
Administrator no less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the license for
the preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except where the
licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises licensed during
the preceding license period as a result of construction, an act of God,
casualty, death, the acquisition, or threatened acquisition, of the premises by
any federal, state, city, or other governmental agency or private organization
possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew exiting
lease; provided that said licensee shall file a written verified statement no
less than 20 days from the expiration date of the license, setting forth these
facts, and the City ABC Administrator is hereby authorized to extend the time
for filing of a renewal of such license for a reasonable length of time within
the sound discretion of the City ABC Administrator; provided, however, such
licensee shall pay a license fee from the expiration date of the former license
or licenses.
      (2)   Said license fee shall not by payable until application is made for
the transfer of said license to a new location.
      (3)   The renewal by the City ABC Administrator of the license shall not
be construed to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior
to such renewal, and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the
licensee.
   (B)   Lost or destroyed license. When a license shall be lost or destroyed
without fault on the part of the licensee, or his or her agent or employee, a
duplicate in lieu of the original license shall be issued by the City ABC
Administrator after the City ABC Administrator shall have been satisfied as to
the facts; provided, however, that the applicant for said duplicate license
shall pay a fee of $25 for the duplicate license.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.038 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City ABC Administrator
if the licensee shall have violated any of other provisions of KRS Chapter 241
through 244, or any rule or regulation of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board, or of the State Department of Revenue, relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale, and transportation, or taxation, of alcoholic beverages, or
if such licensee shall have violated, or shall violate, any act of congress or
any rule or regulation of any federal board, agency, or commission, or this
chapter now, heretofore, or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of
the manufacture, sale, and transportation, or taxation, of intoxicating
liquors, or any rules or regulations of the city heretofore in existence or
authorized by the terms of KRS Chapters 241 through 244 to be created,
irrespective of whether the licensee knew of, or permitted, the violation or
whether the violation was committed is disobedience of his or her instructions.
   (B)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the City ABC
Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing stated causes, any license may be revoked
or suspended for the following causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or the licensee’s agent, servant, or
employee for selling any illegal alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises;
      (2)   Making any false material statements in an application or renewal
application for a license or supplemental license;
      (3)   Conviction of the licensee or any of the licensee’s agents,
servants, or employees of two violations of the terms and provisions of KRS
Chapters 241 through 244, or any act regulating the manufacture, sale, and
transportation of alcoholic beverages within two consecutive years; two
misdemeanors directly or indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic
beverages within two consecutive years; or any felony;
      (4)   Failure or default of a licensee to pay an excise tax or any part
of the tax or any penalties imposed by or under the provisions of any statutes,
ordinances, or acts of congress relative to taxation, or for a violation of any
related administrative regulations promulgated by the Department of Revenue;
      (5)   Revocation of any state license provided in KRS 243.030, 243.040,
or permit granted under any act of congress relative to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale, and transportation of alcoholic beverages;
      (6)   Setting up, conducting, operating, or keeping on the licensed
premises any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery, gift
enterprise, handbook, or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged in on
the licensed premises any gambling game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery,
gift enterprise, handbook, or facility. This division (C)(6) shall not apply
to:
         (a)   The sale of lottery tickets sold under the provisions of KRS
Chapter 154A;
         (b)   The operation of a pari-mutuel system for betting, where
authorized by law;
         (c)   The conduct of charitable gaming by a charitable organization
licensed or permitted under KRS Chapter 238; or
         (d)   Special temporary raffles of alcoholic beverages under KRS
243.036.
      (7)   Conviction of the licensee, or the licensee’s agents, servants, or
employees, for the trafficking or possession upon the licensed premises of
controlled or illegal substances described in KRS Chapter 218A, including
synthetic drugs; knowingly permitting the trafficking or possession by patrons
upon the licensed premises of controlled or illegal substances described in KRS
Chapter 218A, including synthetic drugs; or knowingly receiving stolen property
upon the licensed premises; and/or
      (8)   Failure to comply with the terms of the City ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.039 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION; PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the initiative of any
law enforcement officer, or of the City ABC Administrator, the City ABC
Administrator may institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license
granted under this chapter.
      (1)   A license may be revoked or suspended only after the licensee shall
have been given written notice, by certified or registered mail, of the
proposed revocation, including notice of the reasons for such proposed action.
      (2)   (a)   The licensee shall be given opportunity to be heard in
opposition to the proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed
action shall advise the licensee of the date, time, and place of the hearing.
         (b)   Notice shall be sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the
address shown in the last application for a license, or in the last statement
supplemental to, or in amendment of, the application, whether or not the
mailing is receipted for or claimed.
   (B)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions for
revocation or suspension shall provide constitutional due process rights to the
City Alcoholic Beverage Control license holder.
   (C)   A decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or suspending a
license may be appealed to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, as provided in
KRS 241.200 and KRS 243.550.
   (D)   (1)   Within three days after any order of revocation or suspension of
a license becomes final, notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee
and to the owner of the licensed premises.
      (2)   A notice mailed to the licensee and to the owner of the licensed
premises at the address shown in the last application for a license, or in the
last statement supplemental to the application, shall be deemed sufficient
compliance with this section.
      (3)   The licensee shall at once surrender his or her license to the City
ABC Administrator. If the revoked or suspended license is not forthwith
surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of Police, at the request of the City
ABC Administrator, shall immediately cause one of his or her officers to take
physical possession of the license and return it to the City ABC Administrator.
   (E)   When a license has been revoked or suspended, the former licensee may,
with prior approval of the City ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer his
or her stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
   (F)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator revoking or
suspending a license shall be to the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
The timely filing of an appeal shall stay further proceedings for revocation.
   (G)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City ABC
Administrator, and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall suspend all
operations authorized under his or her license upon finality and effectiveness
of the order. Upon finality of any final order of the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board sustaining or ordering revocation or suspension on appeal, the
licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized under this license.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.040 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned either
as to licensee or location, except with prior approval of the City ABC
Administrator, and not then until a payment of $100 shall be made to the City
ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.041 REVIEW; RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter
shall provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions
of any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant’s quarterly regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide
the form schedule to the licensee.
      (2)   (a)   The licensee’s acceptance of a license to manufacture or
traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the filing of the
quarterly report; in the case of caterer filing, the quarterly report shall
identify each catered event by type of event, date, and address of the event,
and shall provide a per event breakdown of sales and the ratio of food sales to
alcohol sales during the reporting period.
         (b)   This requirement for filing of reports notwithstanding, the city
may, at any time, come upon the premises of any licensee and examine the books
and records to determine whether the licensee is in compliance with all parts
of this chapter.
      (3)   (a)   In the event the conditions of any license requirement are
not met during any particular quarter, the City ABC Administrator shall have
discretion in determining whether revocation is appropriate or whether the
licensee may be allowed a reasonable period of time to reach compliance.
         (b)   If a good faith effort is demonstrated by the licensee, the City
ABC Administrator may apply an accounting period of at least one year in
determining whether or not the food sale percentage requirement has been met.
   (B)   (1)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain, upon
the licensed premises, adequate books and records of all transactions involved
in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
      (2)   Such books and records shall be available at all reasonable times
for inspection by the City ABC Administrator and such city employees who may
assist the City ABC Administrator in his or her review.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.042 DORMANCY.
   (A)   (1)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license, or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after 90 days; such is the intent of this section.
      (2)   Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her
business interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various
exceptions to the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
90 days shall be deemed inactive and, unless the conditions set forth in
division (C) below are proved to the satisfaction of the City ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the City ABC Administrator.
If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the City
ABC Administrator.
   (C)   (1)   The provisions of division (B) above shall not apply to any
licensee who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a
license is issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, the
acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city, or other governmental
agency under power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew the existing
lease.
      (2)   (a)   Prior to the expiration of 90 days of inactivity, such
licensee shall furnish to the City ABC Administrator a verified statement
setting forth the fact that the licensee is unable to continue in business, for
any of the specific reasons set forth in this section, and the City ABC
Administrator may grant an extension of the dormancy with the license
continuing to remain in effect during the license period or until same is
transferred to another premises, notwithstanding the fact that no business is
transacted during said period; provided, however, no such license shall be
considered valid unless business is conducted thereunder within 12 months from
the date of notice to the City ABC Administrator.
         (b)   Such extension may not extend beyond the renewal date, but may
be for such times as the City ABC Administrator deems appropriate in the
exercise of his or her sound discretion.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
OTHER REGISTRATIONS AND PERMITS
§ 115.055 MALT BEVERAGE KEG; IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   As used in this section, KEG is defined as a container designed and
capable of holding six or more gallons of malt beverage.
   (B)   All retail licensees (herein after referred to as “licensee”)
operating within the city who sell malt beverages in kegs for consumption off
the premises of the licensee shall attach a numbered identification tag, or
other device as provided by the city, to each keg at the time of sale, and
shall require the purchaser to complete and sign a keg registration form for
the keg stating the following:
      (1)   The purchaser is of legal age to purchase, possess, and use the
malt beverage;
      (2)   The purchaser is not purchasing the keg for resale and will not
allow any person under the age of 21 to consume the malt beverage;
      (3)   The purchaser will not remove, obliterate, or allow to be removed
or obliterated the identification tag;
      (4)   The purchaser will state the property address where the keg will be
consumed and physically located; and
      (5)   The purchaser is aware of his/her duty to maintain a copy of the
keg registration form visible and readily accessible from the location of the
keg.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.056 MALT BEVERAGE KEG REGISTRATION AND SALE OF.
   (A)   The licensee shall obtain the name, address, and telephone number of
the purchaser and shall require the purchaser to produce a valid driver’s
license number and, if that is not available, to produce at least one other
valid form of identification.
   (B)   The licensee shall retain copies of the keg registration forms for a
period of one year, and shall make the keg registration form available for
inspection by state and local alcoholic beverage control officers and other
enforcement officers.
   (C)   The keg registration form shall be forwarded to the city within five
working days in all situations when the keg is not returned or is returned with
the identification tag removed or obliterated.
   (D)   The city is authorized to develop appropriate rules and regulations
and to develop and make available forms for the identification tags and keg
registration forms.
   (E)   All licensees that sell, or offer for sale, kegs shall post on the
licensed premises a notice provided by the city concerning the provisions of
this section.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell, or offer for sale, kegs
without the identification tags attached and the keg registration form
completed. It shall also be unlawful for any person to remove or to obliterate
the identification tag or to fail to have the declaration form visible and
readily accessible from the location of the keg. The penalties for violation of
this section shall be the penalties as set out in this chapter. In addition,
licensees violating this section shall be subject to appropriate alcoholic
beverage control administrative remedies.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.057 SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMIT.
   (A)   Licensees in the downtown business district/area may request a permit
to use the sidewalk as an adjunct to the primary and adjacent licensed premises
to serve food and alcoholic beverages there. In the case of permitted sidewalk
cafés, they shall be deemed part of the licensed premises.
   (B)   Any licensee/restaurant that is licensed under this chapter, and the
provisions of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws, may, upon application
to the local ABC Administrator, ask permission to expand the operation of the
business/restaurant onto a part, and only that part, of the public sidewalk
which immediately adjoins the licensed premises (hereinafter referred to as
“sidewalk café”). Licensees who do not serve food shall not be eligible to
apply for a sidewalk café permit.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.058 SIDEWALK CAFÉ PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The issuance of a permit shall be subject to the following conditions
and restrictions; provided, however, that the City ABC Administrator may,
without adverse hearing procedures, impose additional reasonable restrictions
or withdraw approval upon the operation of any sidewalk café where necessary in
the judgment of the said City ABC Administrator to protect the public health,
safety, or welfare, or to prevent a nuisance from developing or continuing.
      (1)   No sidewalk café shall be permitted in any portion of the public
sidewalk where normal pedestrian traffic flow is obstructed. A minimum
clearance width of 36 inches must be maintained on the public sidewalk at all
times. The sidewalk café shall not be permitted, in any manner, to obstruct the
entrance/exit to the restaurant.
      (2)   No tables, chairs, or any other furnishings, except plant tubs,
shall be placed in the area used for the sidewalk café during any period when
the sidewalk café is not open and being operated. They shall be removed at the
end of each business day at the hour specified in the permit. Umbrellas,
tables, chairs, and other portable appurtenances shall be confined to the area
shown on the approved permit. While such café is in operation, all tables and
chairs shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition.
      (3)   The use of a portion of the public sidewalk as a sidewalk café
shall not be an exclusive use. All public improvements, including, but not
limited to: trees; light poles; traffic signals; pull boxes; manholes; or any
public-initiated maintenance procedures, shall take precedence over said use of
the public sidewalk at all times.
      (4)   The licensee shall, in addition to all other requirements of law,
take reasonable steps to ensure that alcoholic beverages are consumed only by
patrons of the establishment who are of age, and not by passersby, persons who
are not of age, or persons who are obviously or apparently intoxicated.
      (5)   No disposable cups or drinking vessels may be used and the licensee
shall not permit any alcoholic beverages to be taken off premises by patrons,
customers, or guests.
      (6)   No amplified sound shall be used within a sidewalk café. At no time
shall any music originating from any part of the premises create a nuisance.
      (7)   Dancing shall not be permitted or allowed in the sidewalk café.
      (8)   The licensee must, at all times, comply with all federal, state,
and local laws regarding the sale, service, and consumption of alcohol and the
operation of the premises.
      (9)   The permit for sidewalk café may not be assigned or transferred.
   (B)   No sidewalk café permit shall be effective unless the licensee has
filed with the City ABC Administrator evidence of insurance, insuring the
licensee against liability imposed by law arising out of the ownership,
maintenance, or operation of such sidewalk café, in an amount to be established
by the City Attorney and the City Safety Coordinator. The city shall be named
an additional insured in the policy required. Such insurance policy shall
further provide expressly that it may not be canceled except upon ten days’
written notice (or more) filed with the City ABC Administrator and the City
Attorney.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 115.070 MANDATORY SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and/or serving of alcoholic
beverages shall participate in and complete a responsible beverage serving
(RBS) program acceptable to the City ABC Administrator.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within 30 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business is
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages, all employees must be trained prior to
the opening of the business.
   (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain, for inspection by the City ABC Administrator,
a record or file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training
information. Each licensee must also submit new training records to the City
ABC Administration with each quarterly submission. Each premises licensed
hereunder must, at all times when alcoholic beverages are being served, have at
least one person currently certified in responsible beverage service training
on duty as described herein. All persons completing the training required by
this section shall be re-certified not less than once every three years
thereafter.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.071 LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements set forth in KRS 243.620, the licensee,
before commencing any business for which a license has been issued, shall post
and display, at all times, in a conspicuous place in the room or principal room
where the business is carried on so that all persons visiting the place may
readily see the license.
   (B)   The licensee shall not, at any time, post the license on premises
other than the licensed premises or upon premises where traffic in alcoholic
beverages is being carried on by any person other than the licensee, or
knowingly deface, destroy, or alter the license in any respect.
   (C)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least eight inches by 11 inches with gender-neutral language
supplied by the State Cabinet for Health and Family Services, which shall warn
that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to conception or during pregnancy can
cause birth defects.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.072 HOURS OF SALE.
    A licensee for distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages shall be
permitted to sell distilled spirits, wine and/or malt beverages on Sunday after
the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. Licensees must obtain a Sunday retail
drink license in order to sell distilled spirits or wine by the drink on
Sunday.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019; Ord. 01-2024, passed 3-18-2024)
§ 115.073 MINORS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The licensee shall not sell, give, or deliver any alcoholic beverages
to any person who is under 21 years of age, or permit same.
   (B)   Except as specifically authorized under KRS Chapter 241 through 244,
no person under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic beverages, or enter onto
any licensed premises for the purpose of acquiring alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   As provided in KRS 244.085 and 804 KAR 5:070, no person under the age
of 21, except in the company of a parent or guardian, may enter any premises
licensed for the package sale of alcoholic beverages. No person under the age
of 21 may enter any premises licensed for drink sales of alcoholic beverages
unless permitted by KRS 244.085(5) and 804 KAR 5:070. The prohibition contained
in division (C)(1) shall not apply to premises where the usual and customary
business of the establishment is a gas station, convenience store, grocery
store, drugstore, and other business types listed in KRS 244.085 and by the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board in 804 KAR 5:070.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly permit, aid, assist, induce, cause, or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use, or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licenses, as set out in this chapter, shall require proof of age
of all persons attempting to purchase or consume alcoholic beverages on the
licensee’s premises.
   (E)   No person being the owner or occupant, or otherwise in possession or
control, of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any
minor to remain on such property while in possession of, using, or consuming
alcoholic beverages.
   (F)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of said minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of, and cooperate with, law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individuals’ possession, consumption, or use of alcoholic
beverages, or that the minor individuals’ possession of alcoholic beverages was
exempted by KRS 244.090.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.074 LEGAL TRANSACTIONS.
   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration, except under cash terms of the
wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery. A wholesaler is
also permitted to extend credit for 30 days to a retailer for the purchase of
distilled spirits and wine.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.075 PRIZES AND PREMIUMS.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee to give away, or offer to give away,
anything tangible of value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in
direct connection with the sale of malt beverages, unless permitted by KRS
244.500.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.076 DEPRECIATED PRICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this chapter to give away
any alcoholic beverage to a consumer in any quantity for free or for less than
paid or current wholesale cost, unless the licensee holds a sampling license or
its license type permits limited free samples (e.g., small farm winery,
microbrewery, brewery), or a bona fide close-out sale approved by the State ABC
Administrators.
   (B)   Licensees shall not offer reduced drink specials (e.g., two-for-one,
happy hours, and the like) before 5:00 p.m., nor after the hour of 9:00 p.m.
until closing. No licensee shall sponsor, offer, or permit drinking contests,
all-you-can-drink specials, or free drinks on any licensed premises in the
city.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.077 SELLING TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The licensee shall not sell, give, or deliver any alcoholic beverages
to any person who appears to a reasonable person, to be actually or apparently
under the influence of alcoholic beverages, controlled substances, other
intoxicating substances, or any of these substances in combination, to the
degree that the person may endanger any person or property, or unreasonably
annoy persons in the vicinity.
   (B)   No retail licensee shall sell, give away, or deliver any alcoholic
beverages, or procure or permit any alcoholic beverages to be sold, given away,
or delivered to:
      (1)   A person actually or apparently under the influence of alcoholic
beverages. No licensee, or agent or employee of the licensee, shall permit any
person to become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee
sell alcoholic beverages to any person who is actually or apparently under the
influence of alcoholic beverages;
      (2)   A habitual drunkard, or any person known to the seller or server to
be a habitual drunkard, or any person known to the seller or server to have
been convicted of drunkenness as many as three times within the most recent 12-
month period;
      (3)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) above, anyone known to the
seller or server to have been convicted of D.U.I, or any other misdemeanor
attributable directly or indirectly to the use of alcoholic beverages, or for a
felony;
      (4)   No licensee shall sell, or agree to sell, any alcoholic beverages
or cause or permit any alcoholic beverage to be sold, to any person who has
been reported to the licensee by any court or by any officer acting at the
direction of a court as having failed to make proper provision for his or her
family; and
      (5)   No licensee shall permit any person who is actually or apparently
under the influence of alcoholic beverages to remain on the licensed premises.
As used herein, whether a person is actually or apparently under the influence
of alcoholic beverages shall be determined by the licensee or server with
specific reference to the principles and guidelines established in mandatory
alcohol server training as to the signs of alcohol intoxication.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
LICENSEE PROPERTY REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 115.090 SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   Per state law, the licensee shall display, at all times in a
prominent place, a sign at least eight inches by 11 inches in 30-point or
larger type font which states as follows:
      (2)   Any person(s) under the age of 21 are subject to a fine of up to
$100 if they:
         (a)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to him or her,
alcoholic beverages;
         (b)   Possess, purchase, or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase, alcoholic beverages; and/or
         (c)   Misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic beverages.
   (B) The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least 11 inches by 14 inches in size, with letters at least one
inch high, supplied by the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, and with
gender-neutral language supplied by the State Cabinet for Health and Family
Services, which shall warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to
conception or during pregnancy can cause birth defects.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.091 ADVERTISING.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all other existing
rules, regulations, and ordinances of the city, including, but not limited to,
the Planning and Zoning Ordinance as currently enacted, and/or as may be
amended in the future.
   (B)   No flashing lights shall be used to illuminate the exterior of any
premises licensed under this chapter.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (D)   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading; nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to;
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as “high test,” “high proof,” or “extra strong”) or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
   (E)   No licensee shall erect, or allow to be erected, any banner that
displays any particular brand of alcoholic beverage on the outside of the
building or on the property.
   (F)   (1)   Any off-premises signage advertising the sale of alcoholic
beverages is prohibited. It shall be unlawful to attach signage advertising
alcoholic beverages to the exterior of the building or the exterior premises of
the business.
      (2)   This prohibition shall include the use of outdoor umbrellas or
other outdoor or patio fixtures that feature the name or logo of an alcoholic
beverage or manufacturer of alcoholic beverages.
   (G)   (1)   Signage which refers directly or indirectly to alcoholic
beverages will be limited to one sign not over two square feet that must be
displayed from the inside of the window or interior of the business.
      (2)   No additional signs, banners, posters or other type of displaying
advertising which refers either directly or indirectly to alcoholic beverages
shall be displayed on, nor shall it be visible from the exterior of, any
premises licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages, except that reference to
such may be included in the name of the business.This restriction shall not
prevent any licensee from placing in the windows of the licensed premises
business cards not larger than two and one-half inches in size, setting forth
the price at which the licensee offers alcoholic beverages for sale.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to distribute,
or cause to be distributed, any handbills, circulars, or cards as a medium of
advertising alcoholic beverages.
   (I)   No licensee shall advertise alcoholic beverages on any municipally-
owned property or at any municipally-sponsored event.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.092 SECURITY.
   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or her
premises, including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers to
utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health, and welfare of the
general public utilizing the licensed premises. Security standards are further
necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed premises.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.093 EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS.
   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her business
any person who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two years, unless
permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
   (B) Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
years, unless permitted by KRS 244.090(2);
   (C)   Is under the age of 20 years who will be serving alcoholic beverages,
or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol, as
defined under state statute, unless said person is exempt or permitted by KRS
244.090; or
   (D)   Within two years prior to the date of his or her employment, has had
any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.094 LAVATORY FACILITIES.
   All retail beer and retail drink licensees shall be required to provide
indoor or outdoor lavatory facilities for their customers where such beverages
are consumed on the premises.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
§ 115.095 DRIVE-THROUGH OUTLETS.
   No license shall be issued for any premises to operate a vehicle drive-
through outlet for the sale of alcoholic beverages on a by-the-drink basis.
This prohibition shall not apply to a drive-up window at any premises licensed
for retail package liquor, wine, or malt beverage, including retail beer, where
the primary sales area is arranged for and utilized by persons entering the
premises on foot and manually carrying out the products purchased therein.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
OTHER RESTRICTED ACTIVITIES AND VIOLATIONS
§ 115.110 RADIO RECEIVING APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this chapter to have,
or maintain, any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is
intentionally adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from any law
enforcement agency in the city as it is now, or may hereafter, be operated. In
addition to other penalties provided for the violation of this section, the
Chief of Police or the City ABC Administrator, or his or her designated
investigator, shall have the authority to confiscate any and all such radio
receiving apparatus.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.111 GAMBLING; ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No gambling or game of chance, unless otherwise authorized by the
commonwealth of the state, shall be permitted in any form on such licensed
premises. Dice, slot machines, quarter pushers, prize redemption machines with
programmable payouts, electronic gambling devices, or any devices of chance are
prohibited and shall not be kept on such premises.
   (B)   (1)   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity or adult entertainment
activities, including: nude or nearly nude dancing; adult motion picture,
television, slide, or stage shows; cabarets; or sexual entertainment centers on
any licensed premises. No licensee shall permit explicit sexual activity,
whether actual or simulated, upon any licensed premises.
      (2)   No licensee shall sponsor or permit wet t-shirt or wet clothing
contests, lingerie fashion shows, mud wrestling, jello wrestling, or similar
activities, nor shall a licensee allow dancing with touching for compensation
(including, but not limited to: wages; tips; or gratuities), or any other
service, display, or contest requiring physical contact between patrons and/or
patrons and employees on any licensed premises; nor shall any licensee sponsor,
offer, or permit drinking contests, all-you-can-drink specials, or free drinks
on any licensed premises in the city.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.112 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person licensed to sell alcoholic beverages at retail shall cause,
suffer, or permit the licensed premises to be disorderly.
   (B)   Acts which constitute disorderly premises consist of, but are not
limited to, permitting patrons to cause public inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm, or wantonly creating risk through:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting or in violent, tumultuous, or threatening
behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise;
      (3)   Refusing to obey an official order to disperse issued to maintain
public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, hazard, or other emergency;
      (4)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any act
that serves no legitimate purpose;
      (5)   Creating a public nuisance;
      (6)   Engaging in criminal activity that would constitute a capital
offense, felony, or misdemeanor;
      (7)   Failing to maintain the minimum health, fire, safety, or sanitary
standards established by the state or a local government, or by state
administrative regulations; or
      (8)   Conducting promotional efforts that are not customary or usually
for a restaurant operation (e.g., wet t-shirt contests, and the like).
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.113 CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, in addition to the
definitions contained in KRS Chapters 241 through 244, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or required a
different meaning.
      HABITUAL. Consistent, that is, by frequent practice or use, but not
necessarily constant or exclusive.
      PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. A retail establishment selling distilled spirits,
wine, and malt beverages in package containers pursuant to licenses issued for
those purposes.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any activity that endangers or interferes with the
general use and enjoyment of neighboring property, passersby or the health,
safety, and welfare of the public.
      VACANT PROPERTY. A vacant lot on which no building or other structure
exists, or property on which any structure is unoccupied or unused, or which
otherwise reflects abandonment by the owner or person with the right of
occupancy.
   (B)   Consumption at package store.
      (1)   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled
spirits, wine, or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic
beverages on the premises unless it also holds the appropriate drink license.
      (2)   The licensee shall post a prominent notice on the premises stating
that consumption of alcoholic beverages on premises is prohibited.
      (3)   This restriction regarding on-premises consumption shall not
prohibit sampling, as allowed for microbreweries and wineries under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 243, or where sampling is permitted for a retail
distilled spirits and wine licensee under the provisions of KRS 244.050, or
beer tastings as permitted in 804 KAR 1:070.
   (C)   Licensed premises. No person or entity operating a package liquor
store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages,
including retail package beer licensees, shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of the licensed
premises so as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (D)   Vacant property. No person or entity being the owner or otherwise in
possession or control of any vacant property shall knowingly allow or permit
habitual congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of such property so
as to constitute a public nuisance.
   (E)   Signage. It shall be a defense to any prosecution under Article VIII,
if a licensed vendor or property owner shall permit the city of post and
maintain a legible painted or printed sign in at least two separate prominent
places in such area, in letters of not less than three inches in height,
stating that congregating of persons in prohibited and that violators shall be
prosecuted for trespass pursuant to KRS 511.080.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.114 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   City police officers and the City ABC Administrator, and his or her
investigator(s), are hereby authorized to enforce this chapter in full.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter shall subject the licensee to penalties
provided in this chapter, and shall be cause for revocation or suspension of
city licenses.
   (C)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in the county’s
District Court against an alleged violator, the City ABC Administrator may
assess civil fines in lieu of suspension, as authorized in KRS 243.480,
including the per diem assessments for ongoing violations. Payment of all fines
shall be remitted to the City ABC Administrator, who shall then transmit the
fines to the City Clerk/Treasurer for deposit in the appropriate designated
account.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no other penalty is hereby provided shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject to prosecution in the county court
system, as follows: for the first offense, be subject to a fine of not less
than one $100, nor more than $500; or imprisoned for not more than six months;
or both.
      (2)   The penalties provided for in division (A)(1) above shall be in
addition to the revocation or suspension of the offender’s license. If the
offender is a corporation, LLC, joint stock company, association, or other
business organization, or a fiduciary, the principal officer or officers
responsible for the violation may be imprisoned.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to pay any license fee described in §
115.021(B) within ten days after it becomes due shall result in a penalty equal
to 10% of the license fee.
      (2)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay remittance, as
described in §
115.021(D), by the due date is 5% of the regulatory fee for each 90 days, or
fraction thereof. The total late filing penalty shall not exceed 25% of the
regulatory fee; provided, however, that in no case shall the penalty be less
than $10.
   (C)   Per the signage described in §
115.090(A)(2), any person(s) under the age of 21 are subject to a fine of up to
$100 if found guilty of violating the provisions set forth in §
115.090(A)(2). Any person who violates any rule set forth in §
115.090 shall be subject to a fine of $50 per infraction.
(Ord. 05-2019, passed 12-30-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PLANNING
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Standard Codes
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code; Standards of Safety
   
150.02   Enforcement
Building Permits
   
150.15   Permit required
   
150.16   Fees
   
150.17   Application
   
150.18   Issuance
   
150.19   Duration
Electrical Installations
   
150.30   Wiring to meet certain standards
   
150.31   Electrical Inspector
   
150.32   Inspector to be notified when work ready for inspection
   
150.33   Inspection, certificate of approval required
   
150.34   City assumes no liability
 
   
150.99   Penalty
STANDARD CODES
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE; STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   (A)   The State Building Code, as contained in of the Kentucky
Administrative Regulations Title 815, Chapter 7; the State Plumbing Code, as
contained in the Kentucky Administrative Regulations Title 815, Chapter 20; the
State Standards of Safety, as contained in the Kentucky Administrative
Regulations Title 815, Chapter 10, together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full. Copies of
the above codes, and any amendments thereto, shall be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk/Treasurer, where they shall be available for public
inspection during normal business hours.
§ 150.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The enforcement of the State Building Code within the city limits
shall be the responsibility of the Building Official employed by the city, or
with whom the city contracts, pursuant to the requirements of KRS 198B.060.
   (B)   The Fire Department shall be designated as the local enforcement
agency for the State Standards of Safety.
   (C)   For provisions concerning the Electrical Inspector for the city, see §
150.31.
(Ord. 252, passed 8-4-1980)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or the construction of
any buildings, including outdoor advertising signs and accessory buildings, or
to commence the moving or exterior alteration of any building, including
accessory buildings, until a building permit for such work has been obtained
from the city.
(Ord. 221-C, passed 10-15-1979) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 FEES.
   (A)   The cost of a building permit shall be determined by the following
table:
Estimated Cost of Construction Building Permit Fee
Estimated Cost of Construction Building Permit Fee
$50 to $250                    $5
$251 to $500                   $10
$501 to $1,200                 $15
$1,201 to $3,000               $20
$3,001 to 15,000               $25 first $3,000,
                               and $2.50 per $1,000 over $3,000
$15,001 to $100,000            $60 first $15,000,
                               and $2 per $1,000 over $15,000
$100,001 to $500,000           $250 first $100,000,
                               and $l per $1,000 over $100,000
$500,001 to $1,000,000         $900 first $500,000,
                               and $0.15 per $1,000 over $500,000
 
   (B)   The value of new construction of homes is determined by the below
formula fee:
      (1)   Main living area cost per square footage: $20;
      (2)   Attached garage cost per square footage: $10;
      (3)   Second floor and up cost per square footage: $10; and
      (4)   Improved basement cost per square footage: $10.
   (C)   The estimated construction cost for building permits for commercial
buildings shall be based on $15 per square foot, or by contract price.
   (D)   For moving a building or structure, the building permit fee shall be
$25. The permit fee for demolition of any building up to 1,600 square feet in
size shall be $10; demolition of any structure over 1,600 square feet in size
shall be $50.
   (E)   The fee for variance in any building or structure shall be $10.
(Ord. 221-C, passed 10-15-1979)
§ 150.17 APPLICATION.
   (A)   In applying to the city for a building permit, the applicant shall
submit with the application a plan drawn to scale (if practical) showing the
dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the outside dimensions of all
structures to be constructed or altered, and all existing structures, yard
depths, and any other information necessary for determining conformance with
this subchapter. A County Health Officer’s certificate, approving the proposed
application, is required.
   (B)   The city shall keep a permanent file of all applications for building
permits, with accompanying plans, and all permits issued.
(Ord. 221-C, passed 10-15-1979)
§ 150.18 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   If the proposed construction or alteration conforms with all
applicable provisions of this subchapter and all other applicable ordinances,
regulations, and codes, the city shall issue a building permit authorizing such
construction or alteration no sooner than 72 hours, three working days, and no
later than 30 days from the date of the application. If the proposed alteration
fails to conform, the city shall refuse to issue a building permit and shall
deliver written notice to the applicant stating the reasons for the refusal.
   (B)   The issuance of a building permit by the city shall not waive any
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 221-C, passed 10-15-1979)
§ 150.19 DURATION.
   A building permit shall become void six months after the date of issuance if
construction has not begun, unless an extension is granted by the city upon
presentation of valid reasons for such extension.
(Ord. 221-C, passed 10-15-1979)
ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS
§ 150.30 WIRING TO MEET CERTAIN STANDARDS.
   All electrical wiring within the service area of county’s Rural Electric
Cooperative Corporation inside the city limits shall, when installed for the
purpose of being connected to a source of electrical energy, be sufficiently
insulated, supported, and protected to be reasonably free from hazards to life
and property caused by overloading, short-circuiting, and improper protection
of installation of electrical equipment. All electrical wiring shall be in full
compliance with the National Electric Code, as provided by the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) and the Standards of Safety, being 815 KAR
10:060, as adopted by §
150.01 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The County Rural Electric Cooperative Corporation is the Electrical
Inspector operating within its service area inside the city limits, and is
hereby designated and authorized to make the necessary inspections to ascertain
whether or not the provisions of this subchapter are fully complied with.
   (B)   The Electrical Inspector shall have the right to charge a reasonable
fee which shall constitute full and complete compensation for services rendered
by it in the making of any inspection, which services shall include the
rendering of a written report. The fee shall be paid by the owner, contractor,
or person installing the electrical wiring or equipment, and no part of the
service fee shall be paid by the city. The inspection fees to be charged and
paid, together with the issuing of the certificate of approval provided for in
§
150.33, shall be in accordance with the recognized scale of fees charged for
similar work and inspections by the Inspector and shall not be in excess
thereof.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1981)
§ 150.32 INSPECTOR TO BE NOTIFIED WHEN WORK READY FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   The person, firm, or corporation installing electrical wiring or
equipment, or repairing or rearranging same, shall notify the Electrical
Inspector prior to commencement of the work, and also when the work is ready
for inspection.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person, firm, or corporation to
conceal such electrical wiring or installation until after same has been
reported to the Electrical Inspector and has been inspected and approved by the
Electrical Inspector. Forms or blanks for the aforesaid purpose shall be made
available by the Electrical Inspector.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.33 INSPECTION, CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, including any
electric light or power company, to connect with or furnish current to any
electrical installation within the service area of County Rural Electric
Cooperative Corporation inside the city limits until after the electrical
installation has been inspected and approved by the Electrical Inspector and a
certificate of approval issued for it.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.34 CITY ASSUMES NO LIABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to relieve or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any person, firm, or corporation owning,
operating, controlling, maintaining, or installing any electrical wiring,
devices, appliances, or equipment for damages to persons or property caused by
any defect or failure therein; nor shall the city be held as assuming any such
liability or responsibility by reason of the inspection authorized herein, or
the certificate of approval issued as provided in §
150.33.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1981)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be fined no more than $500 for each offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(KRS 318.990)
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25, nor more than $1,000, imprisonment
for not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
      (3)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10, nor more than $1,000, for each offense. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Violations of state’s Building or Residential Code; penalty, see KRS 227.990
(1)
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING
Section
   
151.01   Comprehensive Development Plan
   
151.02   Community Development and Urban Renewal Plan
§ 151.01 COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The City Council approves the city’s Comprehensive Development Plan.
(Res. 232, passed 2-11-1980)
§ 151.02 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN RENEWAL PLAN.
   The City Council approves the Community Development and Urban Renewal Plan.
(Res. 233, passed 2-11-1980)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of flood damage regulations by reference
   
152.02   Water service to customers within the flood plain
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF FLOOD DAMAGE REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Flood damage regulations for the city, and any and all amendments, are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the city, as identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration, and mandates that no structure or land in those areas shall
hereafter be located, or extended, converted, or structurally altered without
compliance with its provisions; requires the obtaining of a permit from the
city as administrator; makes provision as to the anchoring of mobile homes
within the areas of special flood hazard; requires that all new construction
and substantial improvements be constructed with materials and utility
equipment resistant to flood damage; and provides that in all areas of special
flood hazard, the lowest floor of any residential structure constructed or
substantially improved shall have the lowest floor area elevated to or above
base flood elevation, and any nonresidential structure constructed or
substantially improved shall either have its lowest floor elevated to or above
base flood elevation or has that floor floodproofed.
   (C)   The full text of these regulations is on file in the office of the
City Clerk/Treasurer, where it may be inspected.
(Ord. 6-1991, passed 10-21-1991) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 WATER SERVICE TO CUSTOMERS WITHIN THE FLOOD PLAIN.
   (A)   The city resolves that through its waterworks and sewer system it will
not hook up or furnish water service to any new customers who may request the
services upon property which is located within the flood plain as that area is
designated on records of the city, unless the property, location requested to
be served, or the improvements located thereon have been elevated, or are
elevated, to where the living areas are located above the elevation of the
flood plain.
   (B)   Exceptions to this section will only be made by the city upon
individual application and upon individual basis.
(Res. 3-1996, passed 8-7-1996)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision described in §
152.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of $100, or
imprisonment of not more than 30 days, for each day a violation of said
provision(s) continues.
(Ord. 6-1991, passed 10-21-1991)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   CONDEMNATIONS
      
IV.   DEDICATIONS
      
V.   EASEMENTS
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
      
VII.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VIII.   VACATIONS
      
IX.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
X.   TEMPORARY EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date   Description
              Passed
179           4-3-   Approving a cooperation agreement between the city and the Housing Authority
              1978   for low rent public housing.
-             8-29-  Authorizing a water transmission agreement with the Jackson County Water
              1978   Association.
-             1-1-   Agreement between the city and the State Municipal League Unemployment
              1981   Compensation Reimbursement Trust.
-             11-19- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with Jackson County Rural
              1981   Electric Cooperative Corporation as electrical inspector.
Order 1-1982  1-4-   Authorizing an agreement between the city and the State Municipal League
              1982   Unemployment Compensation Reimbursement Trust.
6-1986        10-28- Authorizing agreement for the Pigeon Roost Creek Watershed.
              1986
2-1987        6-1-   Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-insurance among various
              1987   cities, urban-county governments, and other public agencies within the state.
2-1990        4-16-  Approving an extension of the Water Transmission Agreement with the Jackson
              1990   County Water Association.
1-1991        3-27-  Approving and authorizing an assistance agreement between the city and the
              1991   State Infrastructure Authority.
                     Approving and authorizing an assistance agreement between the city and the
4-1991        5-6-   State Infrastructure Authority, and such other agreements necessary to complete
              1991   the funding and construction of the addition to the waterworks and sewer
                     system.
-             5-20-  Inter-local agreement between the city and Jackson County for road maintenance.
              1991
3-1993        5-24-  Approving and authorizing the execution of the inter- local cooperation
              1993   agreement to establish the State Municipal Risk Management Association.
              2-21-  Approving plan for MP One (multi-purpose structure) for a water supply source
1-1995        1995   and reducing floodwaters and sediment damage in the city and appointing Mayor
                     as Contracting Officer.
              6-18-  Authorizing the Mayor to make application for and, upon approval thereof, enter
1-2012        2012   into an agreement with the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security (KOHS) for
                     funds for a project to be administered by KOHS.
              6-18-  Authorizing the Mayor to make application for and, upon approval thereof, enter
2-2012        2012   into an agreement with the Kentucky Office of Homeland Security (KOHS) for
                     funds for a project to be administered by KOHS.
4-12          10-3-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a settlement agreement on behalf of the city
              2012   with Kay and Kay Contracting 11c.
              2-20-  Approving an MOA and authorizing the amendment of the 2016-2018 local budget
-             2017   for infrastructure projects; authorizing the Mayor to sign all documents
                     related thereto.
                     A municipal road aid cooperative program agreement between the state’s
-             5-15-  commonwealth, the Transportation Cabinet, the Department of Rural and Municipal
              2017   Aid, and the City Council to aid in the city’s construction, reconstruction,
                     and maintenance of roads and bridges via shared funds.
                     Setting forth the terms and understanding between the county’s Fiscal Court,
Memorandum of - -    the city, and the county’s conservation district in jointly conducting proper
Understanding 2018   maintenance and operation of watershed structures MP One, FRS Two, and FRS
                     Three.
              4-18-  Approving an agreement between the city and the County Fiscal Court for the
03-2022       2022   joint participation in the construction and maintenance of the 89 Park Splash
                     Pad Project.
                    
 
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Annexing certain territory beginning at a point north
-             7-2-1971    on State Highway No. 89 then south eastward to United
                          States Highway 421.
                          Annexing certain territory beginning at a drain
-             6-4-1979    across United States Highway 421 at the United States
                          Forest Service Ranger Station.
                          Annexing certain territory, pursuant to KRS 81A.420
                          and KRS 81A.425, being approximately 800 feet west of
1-2012        3-28-2012   the junction of on United States Highway 421 and
                          State Highway 89, on the waters of Indian Creek and
                          Birch Lick Creek.
                          Annexing a parcel of land, pursuant to KRS Chapter
                          81A and KRS Chapter 83A, and in accordance with KRS
                          83A.060, KRS Chapter 81a, and KRS 83A; a tract of
02-2020       1-31-2020   land between United States Highway 421 and State
                          Highway 587; and also a tract of land between United
                          States Highway 421, approximately 0.45 mile north of
                          its junction with State Highway 89.
                          Annexing an area of two property tracts, pursuant to
                          KRS Chapter 81A and KRS Chapter 83A, and in
06-2023       10-16-2023  accordance with KRS Chapter 81A, KRS 83A.060 and KAR
                          831, located at the current city boundary on North
                          Highway 421, formerly known as the Hamilton Bottom.
                         
 
TABLE III: CONDEMNATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
2-1982        2-1-1982    Authorizing condemnation of real property of Randie
                          Marcum.
                         
 
TABLE IV: DEDICATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                         
                         
 
TABLE V: EASEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 228      12-3-1979   Granting an easement to the City Industrial Site for
                          maintenance of sewer and water lines.
Res. 260      6-1-1981    Accepting a deed of easement from Sam and Margaret
                          Tyra for constructing a city street.
                         
 
TABLE VI: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             12-19-1956  Creating a telephone franchise.
-             3-6-1978    Granting a cable television franchise to McKee
                          Television Enterprises, Inc.
4-1989        9-25-1989   Granting a gas franchise to APC of the state.
4-1995        12-1-1995   Granting a 20-year franchise for a cable television
                          system to McKee Television Enterprises, Inc.
                         
 
TABLE VII: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
4-    5-7-   Authorizing a general warranty deed for a 0.16-acre tract for Bill’s Branch
1992  1992   Neighborhood Rehabilitation Project.
      8-8-   Authorizing the purchase of an approximately 50-acre tract of real property
01-08 2008   from Ralph W. Marcum, Jeffery H. Marcum, and Jennifer Lake for constructing a
             sewer treatment plant.
            
 
TABLE VIII: VACATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Order         8-18-1986   The section of city street which lies between Hughes
                          Street and United States Highway 421.
                         
 
TABLE IX: STREET NAME CHANGES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
3-    9-21-  Renaming Morris Street to McKee Manor Drive.
1992  1992
1-    1-18-  (1) Renaming Wall Street (presently United States Highway 421) to Main Street.
1993  1993
           (2) Godfrey Street (presently State Route 290 toward Annville and the street up
             the hill to the McKee Cemetery) to First Street.
           (3) Renaming David Street (which is presently State Route 89 from city hall
             toward Irvine) to Second Street.
           (4) Water Street (which is sometimes called Jockey Street) will remain the same.
           (5) Renaming Yellow Dog Street to Indian Springs Drive and Cherokee Drive
             (officially named on September 8, 1980) will remain the same.
           (6) Renaming Maple Street (which presently is the one lane street from United
             States Highway 421 to the McKee Baptist Church) to Third Street.
             (7) Bill’s Branch (presently the street from State Route 89 near the mouth of
           Bill’s Branch Creek to the McKee Elementary School) will remain Bill’s Branch
             Road.
           (8) Renaming Old McKee-Manchest er Road (which presently runs from United States
             Highway 421 in downtown McKee to the Bond Memorial Park) to High Street.
           (9) Renaming Hughes Street (which runs through the CCC Bottom area to the McKee
             Manor) to CCC Bottom Street.
            (10) McCammon Creek Road (which runs from United States Highway 421 at the
             entrance to Bond Memorial Park to Jackson County landfill) will remain the same.
           (11) Naming West Ridgeview (will be the street running from McCammon Creek Road
             to the junction with Bradshaw Road).
           (12) Naming East Ridgeview (will be the street east of West Ridgeview running
             from McCammon Road to dead end).
             (13) Naming Buggy Lane shall be the road running from Main Street (United States
           Highway 421) 200 feet north of the bridge over Indian Creek and north along Old
             McKee-Richmond Road a distance of 0.2 of a mile).
           (14) Naming Airport Access Road (which runs from State Route 89 at McKee
             Elementary School to the proposed airport site).
           (15) Naming Cox Hollow Road (which runs from United States Highway 421 0.3 mile
             north of SCL of McKee and up Cox Hollow approximately 0.1 of a mile).
             (16) Naming Hemlock Lane (which runs from United States Highway 421 0.1 of a mile
           north of the SCL of McKee to Wallace Lake home a distance of approximately 0.1 of
             a mile).
             (17) Naming White Pine Lane (which runs from United States Highway 421 0.12 of a
           mile north of the SCL of McKee to Dwight Bishop’s, a distance of approximately
             0.06 of a mile).
           (18) Naming Shady Lane (which runs from United States Highway 421 0.15 of a mile
             north of the SCL of McKee to Belle Lakes, a distance of 0.1 of a mile).
           (19) Old School Road (which runs from State Route 290 at the Reformed Church to
             old block school on hill).
             
 
TABLE X: TEMPORARY EMERGENCY DECLARATIONS
 
 
Ord./Res. No.           Date Passed Description
                                    Operations plan in response to the state of
                                    emergency described in executive order 01-
-                       - -         2020 below; describing how city departments
                                    and city hall itself will function due to
                                    restrictions imposed by the effects of
                                    COVID-19.
                                    Declaring a state of emergency based on the
                                    effects of a flood that occurred on
Declaration of Disaster 3-18-2019   February 23, 2019; executing the spending
                                    emergency funds, invoking mutual aid
                                    agreements, and requesting assistance from
                                    the state.
                                    Declaring a state of emergency in response
                                    to the first documented case of COVID-19 to
Order 01-2020           3-16-2020   protect public health, safety, and welfare
                                    of the citizens, pursuant to KRS 39A.100(2)
                                    and KRS 39B.070.
                                    Altering the leave policy for employees in
Order 02-2020           3-20-2020   response to COVID-19 in accordance to the
                                    Families First Coronavirus Response Act.
                                    Extending the deadline for which net profit
                                    taxes are to be paid, and waiving any
Order 03-2020           4-6-2020    interest or penalties therefor, in response
                                    to the state of emergency declared in
                                    response to COVID-19.
                                   
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
References to Orders and Miscellaneous
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cite Code Section
KRS Cite                      Code Section
6.050                         32.43
6.955 to 6.975                33.04
Chapter 13A                   93.03
Chapter 13B                   93.07;
                              115.003
15.409                        34.26
Chapter 18A                   113.03
18A.225(2)                    113.03
18A.228                       113.03
Chapter 31                    34.26
39A.100(2)                    TSO Table X
39B.070                       TSO Table X
41.240(4)                     33.05
42.450 to 42.495              33.04
43.050                        33.04
Chapter 45A or 56             34.26
45A.005 et seq.               33.40
Chapter 61                    32.17
61.168                        34.26
61.823(2) to (4)              91.20
                              34.15;
61.870 to 61.884              34.26;
                              34.27
61.870(1)                     34.01
61.870(2)                     34.01
61.870(3)                     34.01
61.870(4)                     34.01
61.870(5)                     34.01
61.870(6)                     34.01
61.870(7)                     34.01
61.870(8)                     34.01
61.870(9)                     34.01
61.872(1) to (3)              34.15
61.872(4)                     34.16
61.872(5)                     34.17
61.872(6)                     34.18
61.874(1)                     34.22
61.874(2)                     34.22
61.874(3)                     34.23
61.874(4)                     34.23
61.874(5)                     34.24
61.874(6)                     34.25
61.878                        34.01
61.878(1)                     34.26
61.878(2)                     34.26
61.878(3)                     34.26
61.878(4)                     34.26
61.878(5)                     34.26
61.880(1)                     34.19;
                              34.26
61.884                        34.21
62.060                        31.01
Chapter 64                    31.04
65.067                        31.01
65.120                        Chapter 72
65.8840(1)(b)                 92.01
65.8840(1)(e)                 92.01
65.8840(1)(h)                 92.01
65.8840(1)(j)                 92.01
65.8840(3) to (14)            92.04
66.660                        91.06
Chapter 78                    31.04
Chapter 81A                   TSO Table II
81A.420                       TSO Table II
81A.425                       TSO Table II
                              31.04;
Chapter 83A                   114.01;
                              TSO Table II
Chapter 83a                   TSO Table II
83A.010 to 83A.120            30.01
83A.010(5)                    10.02
83A.010(6)                    10.02
83A.010(8)                    10.02
83A.030(1)                    30.02
83A.040(1)                    31.16
83A.040(2)(a)                 31.16
83A.040(2)(c)                 31.16
83A.040(2)(d)                 31.16
83A.040(3)                    31.16
83A.040(4)                    32.01
83A.040(5)                    32.02
83A.040(6)                    31.16;
                              32.02
83A.040(7)                    31.16;
                              32.02
83A.040(8)                    31.16;
                              32.02
83A.040(9)                    31.03
83A.050                       31.15;
                              32.01
83A.060                       51.30;
                              TSO Table II
83A.060(1)                    32.30
83A.060(3)                    32.32
83A.060(4)                    32.33
                              32.35;
83A.060(5)                    33.40;
                              93.22;
                              93.35
83A.060(6)                    32.18
83A.060(7)                    32.33
83A.060(8)                    32.36
83A.060(8)(a)                 32.37
83A.060(8)(b)                 32.37
83A.060(9)                    32.38
83A.060(10)                   32.39
83A.060(11)                   32.40
83A.060(12)                   32.41
83A.060(13)                   32.41
83A.060(14)                   32.42
83A.060(15)                   32.43
83A.065                       10.99
83A.070                       31.02
83A.070(1)                    31.02
83A.070(2)                    31.02
83A.070(3)                    31.02
83A.075                       31.02
83A.075(1)                    31.16
83A.080                       35.31
83A.080(1)                    31.30
83A.080(2)                    31.30
83A.080(3)                    31.03;
                              31.15
83A.080(4)                    31.15
83A.090                       10.18
83A.130 to 83A.150            31.16
83A.130(1)                    30.01
83A.130(2)                    30.02
83A.130(3)                    31.16
83A.130(4)                    31.16
83A.130(5)                    32.16
83A.130(6)                    32.34
83A.130(7)                    31.16
83A.130(8)                    31.16
83A.130(9)                    31.16
83A.130(10)                   31.16
83A.130(11)                   32.03;
                              32.17
83A.130(12)                   32.03
83A.130(13)                   32.03
83A.170                       31.15
83A.175                       32.02
91A.010                       33.01
91A.010(4)                    10.02
91A.010(8)                    10.02
91A.020                       33.02
91A.030                       33.03
91A.030(7)                    33.03
91A.040                       33.04
91A.050                       33.04
91A.060                       33.05
91A.200                       33.21
91A.210                       33.20
91A.220                       33.21
91A.230                       33.22
91A.240                       33.23
91A.250                       33.24
91A.260                       33.25
91A.270                       33.26
91A.280                       33.27
91A.290                       33.28
Chapter 95                    35.16;
                              35.17
96.020                        54.20
Chapter 107                   33.21
118.305(7)                    32.02
131.010(6)                    113.04
132.285                       36.01
Chapter 136                   36.06
136.500 through 136.575       36.06
136.500(10)                   36.06
139.200                       93.04
149.375                       93.22
                              93.22;
149.400                       93.35 -
                              93.38
Chapter 154                   34.26
154.50-301 through 154.50-346 35.02
154.50-316                    35.01
154.50-326                    35.02
Chapter 154A                  115.038
174.100                       91.20
174.100(1)                    91.21
174.100(2)                    91.22
174.100(3)                    91.23
174.100(4)                    91.24
174.100(5)                    91.25
178.290                       91.06
186.560                       71.30
186A.145                      72.26
186A.190                      72.26
189.020                       71.32
189.285                       73.02
189.287                       73.01
189.290                       71.30
189.330(8)                    71.02
189.338                       70.20
189.450(5)                    72.03
189.450(6)                    72.03
189.580                       71.15
189.725                       72.08
189.930                       71.31
189.990(1)                    72.99
189.993(8)                    71.99
190.010(6)                    92.04
190.010(8)                    92.04
190.010(11)                   92.04
196.099                       34.01
198B.060                      150.02
Chapter 218A                  115.037
224.1-410                     92.04
224.10-100                    93.35 -
                              93.38
224.20-100                    93.35 -
                              93.38
224.20-110                    93.35 -
                              93.38
224.20-120                    93.35 -
                              93.38
226.010                       112.01
226.020                       112.02
226.030                       112.07
226.040                       112.03
226.050                       112.04
226.060                       112.08
226.070                       112.03
226.080                       112.05
226.090                       112.06
226.100                       112.08
226.990(1)                    112.99
226.990(3)                    112.99
227.330(6)                    93.04
227.550                       92.04
227.700                       93.01
227.700 to 227.750            93.01;
                              93.07
227.702                       93.01;
                              93.03
227.704                       93.01
227.706                       93.01
227.708                       93.02
227.710                       93.03
227.715                       93.03;
                              93.04
227.720                       93.05
227.730                       93.06
227.750                       93.07
227.990(1)                    150.99
227.990(4)                    93.99
Chapter 238                   115.038
                              115.001;
                              115.002;
Chapter 241 to 244            115.038;
                              115.073;
                              115.113
241.010(37)                   115.016
241.100                       115.002
241.160                       115.002
241.170                       115.002
241.200                       115.019;
                              115.039
Chapter 243                   115.016;
                              115.113
243.030                       115.038
243.040                       115.038
243.036                       115.038
243.070                       115.020
243.075                       115.021
243.090                       115.021
243.260                       115.016
243.450                       115.019
243.480                       115.114
243.490                       115.019
243.500                       115.019
243.550                       115.019;
                              115.039
243.620                       115.071
244.050                       115.113
244.085                       115.073
244.085(5)                    115.073
244.090                       115.073;
                              115.093
244.090(2)                    115.093
244.130                       115.091
244.150                       115.002
244.500                       115.075
257.010                       90.01
281.010                       92.04
281.920 through 281.936       72.26
281.926                       72.26
281.928                       72.26
281.928(1)                    72.26
291.932                       72.26
318.990                       150.99
Chapter 337                   31.04
Chapter 342                   110.06;
                              113.03
359.230                       72.26
376.275                       72.26
376.275(1)                    72.26
376.275(2)                    72.26
411.500 to 411.570            Chapter 92
                              32.38;
                              33.04;
Chapter 424                   33.24;
                              33.25;
                              54.20
424.120                       33.04,
                              115.017
424.220                       33.04
424.220(6)(b)                 33.04
446.010(1)                    10.02
446.010(2)                    10.02
446.010(9)                    10.02
446.010(10)                   10.02
446.010(12)                   10.02
446.010(13)                   10.02
446.010(14)                   10.02
446.010(15)                   10.02
446.010(17)                   10.02
446.010(18)                   10.02
446.010(23)                   10.02
446.010(25)                   10.02
446.010(26)                   10.02
446.010(27)                   10.02
446.010(28)                   10.02
446.010(30)                   10.02
446.010(31)                   10.02
446.010(33)                   10.02
446.010(37)                   10.02
446.010(39)                   10.02
446.010(43)                   10.02
446.010(46)                   10.02
446.010(47)                   10.02
446.010(49)                   10.02
446.010(55)                   10.02
446.020(1)                    10.03
446.020(2)                    10.03
446.030                       10.04
446.050                       10.05
446.060                       10.06
446.080(1)                    10.03
446.080(3)                    10.03
446.080(4)                    10.03
446.090                       10.07
446.100                       10.08
446.110                       10.09
446.140                       10.01
511.080                       115.113
520.010                       34.01
534.040(2)(c)                 10.99
                              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     73.99;
-        3-15-1948   Chapter 75, Schedules I and
                     II
-        6-21-1948   94.06
-        9-9-1957    91.55
10       5-13-1960   10.18
-        3-19-1964   51.03 -
                     51.12
-        3-19-1964   51.14 -
                     51.16
15       1-1-1970    10.18
-        7-2-1971    TSO Table II
102      7-1-1974    36.01 -
                     36.05
-        8-1-1976    51.02
                     51.02;
-        10-20-1977  51.08;
                     51.15
179      4-3-1978    TSO Table I
184      4-3-1978    72.14
185      4-3-1978    72.14
197      4-3-1978    91.42
-        8-29-1978   TSO Table I
-        6-4-1979    TSO Table II
219      10-8-1979   95.01;
                     95.02
-        8-6-1979    51.02
221-C    10-15-1979  150.15 -
                     150.19
226      12-6-1979   35.33
-        3-28-1980   72.25
20       1-1-1980    10.18
-        2-11-1980   51.02;
                     51.12
235      3-28-1980   TSO Table III
252      8-4-1980    150.02
-        1-1-1981    TSO Table I
261      6-1-1981    TSO Table IV
263      6-1-1981    33.03
264      6-1-1981    33.06
                     150.30 -
-        11-19-1981  150.34;
                     TSO Table I
269      12-7-1981   TSO Table VII
2-1982   2-1-1982    TSO Table III
9-1982   6-22-1982   110.99
-        7-1-1984    51.13 -
                     51.15
3-1984   9-18-1984   113.01 -
                     113.05
4-1984   11-19-1984  Chapter 74, Schedule I
5-1984   11-19-1984  Chapter 74, Schedule I
6-1984   11-19-1984  Chapter 74, Schedule II
7-1984   11-19-1984  72.13;
                     72.99
8-1984   11-19-1984  38.01 -
                     38.04
25       1-1-1985    10.18
1-1986   4-28-1986   52.01;
                     52.99
6-1986   10-28-1986  TSO Table I
2-1987   6-1-1987    TSO Table I
4-1979   9-28-1987   31.15
2-1988   5-16-1988   51.02;
                     51.08
5-1988   6-20-1988   91.56
7-1988   8-15-1988   52.02
                     53.01 -
                     53.03;
8-1988   7-20-1988   53.05 -
                     53.10;
                     53.99
1-1989   1-30-1989   31.15
2-1990   4-16-1990   TSO Table I
3A-1990  7-25-1990   52.15 -
                     52.20
3-1991   3-11-1991   51.15
1-1991   3-27-1991   TSO Table I
4-1991   5-6-1991    TSO Table I
6-1991   10-21-1991  152.01;
                     152.99
4-1992   5-7-1992    TSO Table VII
3-1992   9-21-1992   TSO Table IX
1-1993   1-18-1993   TSO Table IX
-        5-20-1993   TSO Table I
3-1993   5-24-1993   TSO Table I
1-1995   2-21-1995   TSO Table I
3-1995   11-20-1995  32.16
5-1996   - -1996     36.06
-2000    2-21-2000   54.15 -
                     54.20
04-00    4-17-2000   70.06
3-02     9-30-2002   110.12
1-05     5-6-2005    33.40
                     110.01 -
01-07    1-31-2007   110.11;
                     110.99
04-07    9-17-2007   71.01
01-08    8-8-2008    TSO Table VII
                     51.01;
5-09     11-9-2009   51.14;
                     51.15
1-2012   3-28-2012   TSO Table II
03-2014  2-24-2014   31.30
5-14     4-23-2014   Chapter 74, Schedule II
7-2014   4-26-2014   31.16
-        12-21-2015  50.04
4-2016   9-26-2016   51.08;
                     51.13
                     93.22;
01-2017  2-22-2017   93.35 -
                     93.38
-        5-15-2017   TSO Table I
2-2019   6-5-2019    31.02
                     115.001 -
                     115.003;
                     115.015 -
                     115.021;
                     115.035 -
                     115.042;
                     115.055 -
05-2019  12-30-2019  115.058;
                     115.070 -
                     115.077;
                     115.090 -
                     115.095;
                     115.110 -
                     115.114;
                     115.999
02-2020  1-31-2020   TSO Table II
04-2020  9-28-2020   51.30 -
                     51.32
05-2020  9-28-2020   114.01
01-2022  1-31-2022   11.01
02-2022  3-21-2022   Ch. 74, Schd. II
03-2022  4-18-2022   TSO Table I
04-2022  6-20-2022   11.01
07-2022  10-17-2022  31.16
01-2023  1-23-2023   31.04
2-2023   2-27-2023   31.02
03-23    7-17-2023   Adopting Ordinance
04-23    7-17-2023   110.12
06-2023  10-16-2023  TSO Table II
01-2024  3-18-2024   115.072
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
228      12-3-1979   TSO Table V
227      12-6-1979   35.32
232      2-11-1980   151.01;
                     151.02
260      6-1-1981    TSO Table V
6-1985   11-18-1985  35.01;
                     35.02
3-1996   8-7-1996    51.17
3-1996   8-7-1996    152.02
-        1-17-2005   38.30
1-2012   6-18-2012   TSO Table I
2-2012   6-18-2012   TSO Table I
4-12     10-3-2012   TSO Table I
01       2-18-2013   38.30
-        2-20-2017   TSO Table I
3-2017   8-21-2017   54.01
-        2-23-2023   11.01;
                     11.02
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDERS AND MISCELLANEOUS
 
Legislation Date Passed Code Section
Legislation  Date Passed Code Section
-            - -         TSO Table X
1-1982       1-4-1982    TSO Table I
-            8-18-1986   TSO Table VIII
01-2014      2-24-2014   35.16
Proclamation 4-3-2014    38.15
-            5-15-2017   TSO Table I
Memorandum   - -2018     TSO Table I
-            3-18-2019   TSO Table X
01-2019      6-5-2019    37.01
1-2019       6-6-2019    31.31
2-2019       6-6-2019    35.60
4-2019       6-6-2019    35.16
5-2019       6-6-2019    35.17
6-2019       6-6-2019    35.45
7-2019       6-6-2019    50.02
8-2019       6-6-2019    50.06
9-2019       6-6-2019    50.03
10-2019      6-6-2019    50.04
11-2019      6-6-2019    50.05
12-2019      6-6-2019    50.07
13-2019      6-6-2019    50.10
14-2019      6-6-2019    50.08
15-2019      6-6-2019    50.09
16-2019      6-6-2019    50.01
17-2019      6-6-2019    35.61
1-2020       1-20-2020   32.17
01-2020      3-16-2020   TSO Table X
02-2020      3-20-2020   TSO Table X
03-2020      4-6-2020    TSO Table X
01-2023      1-23-2023   37.01
02-2023      1-23-2023   37.01
03-2023      2-27-2023   37.01
06-2023      10-16-2023  TSO Table II
                        
                        
 
