CITY OF MIDDLETOWN, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Municipal Ordinance 11-09-2023-B passed 12-
14-2023
State legislation current through KRS 2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
      
12.   CORPORATE LIMITS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Middletown Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code, unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CATTLE. Includes horse, mule, ass, cow, ox, sheep, hog or goat of any age or
sex.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Middletown irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission.
(KRS 83A.010(3))
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(11))
   COUNTY. Jefferson County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(16))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Commission. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(19))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(24))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Commission.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Commissioner.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Middletown, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited PARTNERSHIPS.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
(Ord. 2, Series 1982, passed 1-22-1982)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of the
City Commission.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases, and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of City Commission in enacting
any ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that City
Commission would not have enacted the remaining parts without the
unconstitutional part; or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are
incomplete and incapable of being executed in accordance with the intent of
City Commission.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of City Commission.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of City Commission as long as it takes effect prior to the
effective date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
City Commission which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of City Commission, as long as
the repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the
original amendment.
   (E)   No other action of City Commission repealing a repealer or an
amendment shall have the effect of reviving the original language of the
repealer or amendment, as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Commission, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional
ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the
ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the
purpose effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall
remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until City Commission shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or
division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City flag
§ 11.01 CITY FLAG.
   (A)   The flag shown as reproduced below is hereby adopted as the official
flag of the city.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-929.jpg]
 
   (B)   (1)   The City Historic Museum is hereby granted the permission and
license to use the official city flag as its logo on letterhead, business
cards, postcards, wearable items and any fliers or brochures, which right,
permission, privilege or license is revocable for cause or without any cause by
the City Commission at any time.
      (2)   The use of the logo by the City Historic Museum shall not imply any
association of the Museum with the city, each being a separate entity.
      (3)   The use of the official city flag by the City Historic Museum shall
be in accordance with division (B)(1) above, and used in good taste at all
times.
(Ord. 91-03, passed 6-6-1991; Mun. Order 99-13, passed 7-1-1999)
CHAPTER 12: CORPORATE LIMITS
Section
   
12.01   Anchorage/Middletown border
   
12.02   Douglass Hills/Middletown border
§ 12.01 ANCHORAGE/MIDDLETOWN BORDER.
   (A)   The map attached to Municipal Order 89-04 and adopted by reference
accurately reflects the city boundary line of the City of Anchorage, Kentucky
in the area just north of Old Henry Road from Evergreen Road and going in an
easterly direction.
   (B)   Upon adoption of a similar municipal order by the City of Anchorage, a
copy hereof shall be furnished to the Jefferson County Property Valuation
Administrator.
(Mun. Order 89-04, passed 5-4-1989)
§ 12.02 DOUGLASS HILLS/MIDDLETOWN BORDER.
   (A)   The map attached to Municipal Order 90-05, adopted by reference,
showing the line between the City of Middletown and the City of Douglass Hills
shall be recognized as the true boundary between the respective cities;
however, for purposes of taxation, municipal services, franchise fees, permits
and licenses and the like, Lots 83 and 115 shall be considered in the City of
Middletown and Lots 82 and 116 shall be considered in the City of Douglass
Hills.
   (B)   A copy of this municipal order shall be furnished to the Jefferson
County Property Valuation Administrator, Louisville Gas and Electric Company,
South Central Bell Telephone Company, Storer Cable Television Company,
Jefferson County Planning Commission, Jefferson County Building Department and
the Louisville and Jefferson County Metropolitan Sewer District, as evidence of
the agreement between the respective cities to recognize jurisdiction over the
lots above referenced.
   (C)   This municipal order shall become effective upon its adoption by the
city and the adoption of a similar municipal order by the City of Douglass
Hills.
(Mun. Order 90-05, passed 11-1-1990)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMISSION PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COMMISSION
      
33.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
38.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
39.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
      
40.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30: COMMISSION PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided in this chapter shall be known as the
“Commission Plan.”
(KRS 83A.140(1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected officer who shall be called
Mayor and by elected legislative body members who shall be called City
Commissioners and which together shall be known as the City Commission, and by
other officers and employees as may be provided for by statute or city
ordinance.
   (B)   The City Commission shall be composed of the Mayor and four
Commissioners.
(KRS 83A.030(2))
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.140 and 83A.040, the legislative body of this city
shall be made up of four Commissioners elected at large by the voters of the
city at a regular election. Their terms of office shall begin on the first
Monday of January following their election and shall be for two years and until
their successor qualifies, except as provided by KRS 83A.050. A Commissioner
shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a qualified voter in the city and
shall reside in the city throughout his or her term of office.
   (D)   All other provisions of KRS Chapter 83A where applicable are adopted
as if specifically incorporated herein.
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Bond
Elected Officials
   
31.20   Election procedure
   
31.21   Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.22   Commissioners
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36   City Clerk
   
31.37   City Treasurer
   
31.38   Citation Officer
   
31.39   Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
   
31.40   City Attorney
   
31.41   Administrative Assistant
   
31.42   Director of Operations
   
31.43   Police Administrator
Policies for Officials and Employees
   31.55   Social media usage policy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH.
   Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the discharge of duties
of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do solemnly swear (or affirm,
as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of this Commonwealth,
and the Constitution of the United States, and be faithful and true to the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a citizen thereof, and that I
will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the office of           ,
according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the
adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of this United States,
have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this state, nor out of it,
nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons,
nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any
person thus offending, so help me God,” as established by § 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every
elected city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in
which the officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be
changed after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.070(1))
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and Commissioners
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor and Commissioners shall be paid at a rate no greater
than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Commission shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
(KRS 83A.075)
   (B)   The Commission shall establish the compensation of city employees and
nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
(KRS 83A.070(2))
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
incapacity or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
Commission exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the Circuit Court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Commission at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory references:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers and employees of the city who handle public funds in the
execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the city for
the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as security for all
money coming into the officer’s hands or under the officer’s control. The
amount of the bond shall be based on the maximum amount of public funds the
officer handles at any given time during a fiscal year cycle. The cost of the
bond shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with division (A) above.
(KRS 65.067)
(Ord. 3, Series 1979, passed 8-22-1979; Ord. 5, Series 1979, passed 8-22-1979)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless the Commission prescribes by
ordinance that election of city officers shall be under nonpartisan city
election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. The ordinance shall become
effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by the election
law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with the County
Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which any city
office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any ordinance
prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city election
laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of the
county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
(KRS 83A.050)
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing upon adoption of this
chapter shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of
Mayor and Commissioners may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
(KRS 83A.080(4))
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E) and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(KRS 83A.080(5))
§ 31.21 MAYOR; MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election.
His or her term of office shall begin on the first Monday of January following
his or her election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor
qualifies. If a person is selected or appointed as Mayor in response to a
vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that period of service
shall not be considered for purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Commission
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a), 83A.040(6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Commission may vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(b))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be submitted
through electronic mail if it originates from the official's electronic mail
address and includes also the official's handwritten signature. The resignation
shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City
Commission occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the City Commission occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Commission shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Commission shall elect from among its members an
individual to preside over meetings of the City Commission during any vacancy
in the office of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to
83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
   (E)   Mayor Pro Tem.
      (1)   The Mayor Pro Tem of the city, with the duties proscribed by KRS
83A.140(4), shall be the senior member (in terms years of service) of the city
then available to serve as Mayor Pro Tem.
      (2)   If the disability of the Mayor to attend to his or her duties
continues for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared vacant
by a majority vote of the Commission membership, and the provisions of division
(C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
(Ord. 6, Series 1981, passed 5-21-1981; Mun. Order 08-10, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 31.22 COMMISSIONERS.
   For provisions concerning the City Commission, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
(KRS 83A.080)
   (B)   All nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Commission.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Commission at will
unless otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Supervisor;
      (2)   City Clerk;
      (3)   City Attorney;
      (4)   City Treasurer;
(Ord. 01-10-19-A, passed 2-14-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(2), (3)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK.
    (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk may, by ordinance, be combined with any other
nonelected city office by inclusion of the title and duties of the office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian in accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the mayor, legislative body members, and the correct name, telephone number,
and electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who
are serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January
1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief;
            8.   Public Works Director;
            9.   Risk Manager;
            10.   Information Technology Manager;
            11.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            12.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person who may be reached during normal business
hours of 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance;
(KRS 83A.085)
      (6)   The City Clerk shall keep a true and complete record of all
proceedings of the legislative body and those other records as he or she may be
directed by the legislative body to keep and shall perform those duties as may
be required;
      (7)   The City Clerk shall maintain a composite index of all general
ordinances of the city:
         (a)   The ordinances shall be listed by date, title and Kentucky
Ordinance Code number in chronological order;
         (b)   The contents of each ordinance shall be typed on eight and one-
half inch by 11 inch paper, assigned an appropriate KOC number and placed in a
binder; and
         (c)   The contents of the ordinance shall be described by one or more
appropriate words arranged in alphabetical order and indicating the KOC number.
      (8)   The City Clerk shall keep and index all public records of the city,
including all grants, contracts, title to property owned by the city and
special ordinances; and shall make copies of any documents, records and papers
of the city as may be required by any person, and charge, collect and pay into
the city treasury the fee as will pay for the cost of those copies.
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City
Commission from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless the
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if required, with corporate
surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the
performance of the duties specified herein.
(Ord. 11, Series 1984, passed 9-6-1984)
§ 31.37 CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.085, there is hereby created a nonelective city
office to be known as the office of City Treasurer.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Commission at the January
meeting of even numbered years for a term of two years, expiring on December 31
of odd numbered years, or until a successor is appointed and qualified.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall be at least 21 years of age and of good moral
character, and shall possess professional training and experience to ensure
competent performance of the duties of the office. Residency within the city
shall not be required, although residents shall be preferred.
   (D)   The duties and responsibilities of the City Treasurer shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Receive and safely keep all city funds belonging to the city. These
funds shall be kept in an official depository designated by the City
Commission;
      (2)   Keep an accurate and complete account of all the receipts and
expenditures of the city, showing amounts, when, from whom, to whom, and for
what purpose all city funds were received or paid out;
      (3)   Disburse city funds by written authorization approved by the City
Commission, which shall state the name of the person to whom funds are payable,
the purpose of the payment, the fund out of which the funds are payable;
      (4)   Make quarterly settlements with the City Clerk, and prepare a
statement showing the receipts and expenditures of the city for the preceding
quarter and the amount remaining in each fund in the treasury which, when
approved by the City Commission, shall be spread at large upon the record;
      (5)   Make monthly reports to the City Commission showing the state of
the finances of the city, and the amounts received and spent during the month,
which reports shall be filed;
      (6)   Make an annual report at the close of the fiscal year with the
total amount of all receipts and expenditures of the city and the transactions
during the preceding year; and
      (7)   Perform any other duties as may be required by the City Commission.
   (E)   The salary of the City Treasurer is hereby fixed by the City
Commission at not less than the federal minimum wage, payable weekly, or as
otherwise directed by the Commission.
   (F)   Before entering upon the duties of office, the City Treasurer shall
execute bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties,
including the duties of all offices of which he or she is ex officio incumbent.
The amount and sufficiency of the bond shall be approved by the City
Commission. The bond of the City Treasurer shall be filed with the Commission.
   (G)   Before entering upon the duties of office, the City Treasurer shall
take the oath prescribed by Kentucky Constitution, § 228, for city officials.
(Ord. 11, Series 1984, passed 9-6-1984; Ord. 90-02, passed 1-4-1990)
§ 31.38 CITATION OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created a nonelected city office to be known as
Citation Officer.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be appointed as a Citation Officer unless he or
she is:
         (a)   At least 21 years of age;
         (b)   A high school graduate or has received a General Equivalency
Diploma (GED); and
         (c)   Sober, moral and sagacious.
      (2)   No person who has been convicted of a felony is eligible for
appointment.
   (C)   Before entering upon his or her duties of office, a Citation Officer
shall take the oath as prescribed by Kentucky Constitution, § 228.
   (D)   If required by the City Commission, a bond in an amount as may be
fixed by the City Commission, shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (E)   The office or position shall be deemed a part-time employment, and the
compensation shall be not less than $10 per hour nor more than $80 per hour and
other benefits, if any, as the city elects to provide.
   (F)   The appointment shall be made by the Mayor with the approval of the
City Commission. The Citation Officer shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor
and City Commission. The Citation Officer shall file a monthly report with the
Mayor on the first day of each month reporting on activities for the previous
month. The Mayor may delegate to the Chief of Police or other officer or
employee of the city the superintendence over the Citation Officer.
   (G)   The Citation Officer shall not have the powers of peace officers to
make arrests or to carry deadly weapons, but may issue citations unless
otherwise restricted by the City Commission upon observance of:
      (1)   Non-moving motor vehicle offenses;
      (2)   Violations of ordinances except for moving motor vehicle offenses
and except for offenses which constitute a violation of the State Penal Code;
and
      (3)   Any other duties prescribed by the City Commission and not contrary
to law.
   (H)   The procedure for citations issued by a Citation Officer shall be as
provided in KRS 431.015.
   (I)   The Citation Officer may also be referred to as the Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (J)   Nothing contained herein shall limit the power of a Citation Officer
to make an arrest as a private person as provided in KRS 431.005.
   (K)   Acting under an Interlocal Cooperation Act Agreement, the city may
jointly appoint a Citation Officer with another party to the agreement.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 1-5-2006)
§ 31.39 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator pursuant to KRS 241.160.
   (B)   The City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall be appointed
by the City Commission and is removable at the pleasure of the City Commission.
   (C)   The City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall possess and
exercise all duties and functions as specified in KRS Chapter 241, and those
other functions as may be assigned to the office by the City Commission.
   (D)   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the City
Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall take the oath prescribed by §
228 of the Kentucky Constitution and shall execute a bond with good corporate
surety in the penal sum of not less than $1,000, the cost of which bond shall
be borne by the city.
   (E)   The compensation of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
is hereby fixed at the sum of $1 per annum.
   (F)   The term of office of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator shall be the same as that of the City Commissioners; provided,
however, the term shall be automatically extended until the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator is removed, or until his or her successor is appointed
and qualifies.
   (G)   Pursuant to KRS 241.160, the statutory duties of City Alcoholic
Beverage Control Administrator are hereby assigned to the duly appointed and
qualified City Treasurer.
   (H)   The officer referred to in division (G) above shall perform those
duties required of City Alcoholic Beverage Administrator as specified in KRS
Chapters 241 through 244 and perform other duties as are required by law or by
ordinance of the City Commission. The officer is hereby authorized to issue
those licenses authorized by law or ordinance.
(Ord. 89-05, passed 5-22-1989; Ord. 89-06, passed 5-22-1989)
§ 31.40 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The office of City Attorney is created to be filled by a licensed
attorney selected by legislative body to serve for a term of two years subject
to removal at the pleasure of the legislative body, or as otherwise specified
in any contractual agreement between the legislative body and the attorney.
   (B)   The duties of the City Attorney shall be as follows:
      (1)   The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or
actions at law or equity to which the city may be a party, or in which it may
be interested, or which may be brought against or by, any officer of the city
on behalf of the city or in the capacity of that person as an officer of the
city;
      (2)   To see to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered
or entered in favor of the city, and all similar interlocutory orders;
      (3)   He or she shall be the legal advisor to city officials and the City
Commission and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the city,
whenever requested to do so by any city official. Upon request by the Mayor or
Commission, he or she shall reduce any opinion to writing;
      (4)   He or she shall see to the completion of all special assessments
proceedings and condemnation proceedings;
      (5)   He or she shall draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract,
lease or other documents or instruments, to which the city may be a party; and
upon request of the Commission, to draft ordinances covering any subjects
within authority of the city; and
      (6)   He or she shall perform other duties as are prescribed by
ordinance.
   (C)   The City Attorney so retained shall provide legal services as set out
above to the city, and shall receive for his or her services compensation
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the contractual agreement entered into
between himself or herself and the City Commission.
(Ord. 3, Series 1982, passed 2-4-1982)
§ 31.41 ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT.
   The Administrative Assistant shall be involved supporting and helping the
Mayor and Commissioners perform their functions, as well as performing certain
office management duties on a daily basis, or weekly basis to help the
functioning of the City administration in general. The Assistant shall
additionally help and support other city employees see to the efficient working
of the office.
(Ord. 14-14, passed 6-12-2014)
§ 31.42 DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONS.
   The Director of Operations shall be involved supporting and helping the City
of Middletown maintain daily, weekly tasks, and special event to help maintain
the city’s works and, whenever possible, enrich and beautify the city. The
Director of Operations is responsible for the regular supervision and
management of all the physical assets of the city, including, but not limited
to, all buildings, roads and park. The Director of Operations shall also be the
Citation officer for the City and also support the City Mayor and Commissions
in communication with the citizenry.
(Ord. 14-14, passed 6-12-2014)
§ 31.43 POLICE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Police Administrator shall support the City of Middletown Police
Department in performance of necessary daily administrative tasks, in
accordance with the approved job description.
(Ord. 01-10-19-A, passed 2-14-2019)
POLICIES FOR OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.55 SOCIAL MEDIA USAGE POLICY.
   (A)   The City of Middletown does hereby adopt a policy regarding the use of
social media for communication of city information. The purpose of this policy
is to establish general standards and responsibilities when city employees and
elected officials are communicating about the city using social media. The
policy governs the use, administration, management, monitoring and retention of
the city's social media content. This policy is also applicable to any city
website.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city to use social media to provide
information and resources to the residents of the city and to provide another
convenient point of contact between the city and its citizens. It is not the
policy of the city to create a public forum on any social media platforms, or
city websites, for political discussions or debate.
   (C)   The city recognizes the role that these tools play in the lives of
city government and the individuals that serve the city and acknowledges that
its employees have the right under the state and federal constitutions to speak
out on matters of public concern not related to their official duties. This
policy is not intended to interfere with any city employee or official's right
to freedom of speech. However, the city does have the right to establish
minimal and reasonable restrictions on the use of social media by city
officials and employees to encourage constructive and positive use of social
media for city government communications.
   (D)   All uses of social media on behalf of the city, or in any manner that
represents the city or constitute communication by the city, must comply with
the following standards:
      (1)   No employee or city official may establish, use, or terminate an
official City of Middletown social media identity, account, profile, page, or
site without the approval of the City Commission.
      (2)   The City Commission shall designate persons who are authorized to
post social media content on the city’s social media accounts and no other
person(s) shall post content without prior authorization from the City
Commission.
      (3)   No information, link, or other materials or communications may be
posted on a departmental social media account that is not related to the
mission, services, and business objectives of the City of Middletown.
      (4)   Social media accounts established by the city are to be used for
city business or informational purposes only. Communications and postings that
are not related to a city or department business purpose are prohibited.
      (5)   Any posts dealing with political or legislative initiatives or
issues must be specifically approved by the City Commission prior to posting.
   (E)   The City of Middletown considers the activities and uses of social
media listed below to be unacceptable. This list is not exhaustive. Questions
about particular uses of social media or particular social media content should
be directed to the City Clerk who will forward the question to the City
Commission for a decision. Unacceptable uses of social media include:
      (1)   Using social media in a manner that does not comply with federal,
state, and local laws and regulations, and with city policies.
      (2)   Using social media in a manner that violates the copyright, trade
or other intellectual property rights of any person or entity, or otherwise
violates their legal ownership interests.
      (3)   Ethnic slurs, profanity, personal insults, material that is
harassing, defamatory, fraudulent, or discriminatory or other content or
communications that would not be acceptable in the city workplace under city or
department policy or practice.
      (4)   Obscene, indecent, or profane language, pictures, or videos.
      (5)   Fraudulent, deceptive, or misleading information.
      (6)   Comments not related to the posted topic for the city social media
page or post.
      (7)   Multiple, successive, off-topic posts by a single user or
repetitive posts copied and pasted by multiple users or spam.
      (8)   Promotion or endorsement of commercial services and products.
      (9)   Violates the terms of contracts governing the use of any social
media content, including, but not limited to, software and other intellectual
property licenses.
      (10)   Displays sexually explicit images, cartoons, jokes, messages, or
other material in violation of the city's sexual harassment policy.
      (11)   Expressions of support, or in opposition to, a political party or
candidate before or during an election period.
      (12)   Contains confidential or “for official use only” information or
information that compromises the security of city networks or information
systems. Such “for official use only” or confidential information includes, but
is not limited to, information that is protected under the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), being Pub. Law No. 104-191,
or other federal, state, or local laws and regulations (except as permitted
under such laws and regulations) as well as Social Security numbers and other
personally identifiable information.
   (F)   Submittals or posts to an official city site are allowed if the
content does not violate the social media policy. Users may only post their
own, original content. Reproduced or borrowed content that violates third party
rights will be hidden. Users should have no expectation of privacy when posting
to a city site. Comments made to these sites are reviewed and while city
employees will not edit comments, a comment may be hidden if it violates the
city’s social media policy.
   (G)   The City Clerk shall maintain a list of all official city social media
accounts including, at a minimum, the following information:
      (1)   The name, hosting site, Internet address, date of inception for the
account and a statement of the purpose and scope of the department's use of the
account.
      (2)   All usernames, passwords, and other log-in credentials for the
account.
      (3)   All authorized persons having access to and/or responsibility for
the account.
      (4)   The administrative contacts and contact information for the
account.
      (5)   The city shall ensure that all city social media accounts and
social media content are periodically reviewed for compliance with this policy
and that the information is kept secure.
      (6)   Social media content is subject to the records retention and
destruction schedule established by the state law whether or not the social
media is currently posted on the department's site(s).
   (H)   City officials, including members of boards and commissions can
maintain a personal presence on social media. However, to be considered
personal, there can be no mention and discussion of City of Middletown
business. Any mention or discussion of city business potentially changes the
nature of the page, required record keeping in accordance with the Kentucky
Department of Library and Archives retention schedule and subjecting the entire
page to open records requests.
      (1)   Elected or appointed city officials who want to interact with the
community on social media in their role as a city official are required to
maintain a separate account. City officials will notify the City Clerk of any
official pages utilized. The City Clerk will maintain an updated list of
official pages of city officials.
      (2)   City officials shall conduct themselves professionally and as a
representative of the city.
      (3)   Elected city official's pages shall clearly indicate that any
content posted or submitted for posting is subject to public disclosure.
Additionally, guidelines, if any, shall be posted conspicuously on the page.
      (4)   No comments shall be deleted unless in violation of posted
guidelines. Deleted comments shall be provided to the City Clerk and must be
saved for one year.
      (5)   City officials shall not conduct city business through their social
media sites. If receiving a specific request from a citizen, the city official
shall state: “Thank you for your question. Please email me at (official city
email address, not a personal email) or contact me at (phone number). I look
forward to speaking with you.”
      (6)   City officials shall maintain an official email address and shall
provide the email address to the City Clerk. This must be a separate account
from their personal email account.
      (7)   Officials should refrain from using personal e-mail to conduct any
city business.
      (8)   The city shall retain emails according to the Kentucky Department
of Library and Archives schedule for email. City Officials shall direct any
record keeping questions to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 02-09-2023-B, passed 3-9-2023)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Each Commissioner to superintend specific city departments
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   City meetings
   
32.17   Agenda for City Commission meetings
   
32.18   Conduct of City Council meetings
   
32.19   Open records
   
32.20   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.40   Official city records
   
32.41   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.42   Publication requirements
   
32.43   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.44   Periodic review required
   
32.45   Municipal orders
   
32.46   Proved by City Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.47   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Commissioner shall be elected at large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Commission
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first Monday in January following the
election and shall be for two years, except as provided by KRS 83A.050.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
(Ord. 6, Series 1981, passed 5-21-1981)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Commission occur in a way that
one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days
fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice
of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the
remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Commission shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Commission. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official's
electronic mail address and includes also the official's handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the City Commission occurring on or after the date specified in the written
letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written
resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special
meeting of the City Commission occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   Pursuant to KRS 118.305(7), if a vacancy occurs on the City
Commission which is required by law to be filled temporarily by appointment,
the City Commission shall immediately notify in writing both the County Clerk
and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If, for any reason, any vacancy on
Commission is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All legislative, executive and administrative authority of the city is
hereby vested in and exercised by the Commission. The Commission shall enforce
the Commission Plan, ordinances and orders of the city, and all applicable
statutes.
      (1)   The Commission shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (2)   The Commission shall supervise all departments of city government
and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and
may require each department to make reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (3)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
(KRS 83A.140(3))
   (B)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties.
(KRS 83A.140(5))
   (C)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices and
the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and
regulations for the public health, safety and welfare.
   (D)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate these funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city’s resources.
   (E)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to ensure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance or order.
(KRS 83A.140(8))
§ 32.04 EACH COMMISSIONER TO SUPERINTEND SPECIFIC CITY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   All administrative and service functions of the city shall be
classified under departments created by ordinance which shall prescribe the
functions of the department and the duties and responsibilities of the
department head and his or her employees.
   (B)   The Commission shall at its first regular meeting in each year
designate the Commission member to have superintendence over each department
established under this section; however, the Commission may delegate
responsibility for overall supervision of any or all departments to a City
Administrative Officer established pursuant to KRS 83A.090.
(KRS 83A.140(6))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may vote in
all proceedings.
(KRS 83A.140(4))
Cross-reference:
   Vacancy in office of Mayor; Mayor Pro Tem, see §
31.21
§ 32.16 CITY MEETINGS.
   (A)   The legislative body shall hold regular monthly meetings at 6:00 p.m.
on the second Thursday of each month at the City Hall, 11803 Old Shelbyville
Road, Middletown, Jefferson County, Kentucky 40243.
   (B)   In the event a regular meeting date falls on a legal holiday as
defined by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the regular meeting shall be held on
the next following Thursday which is not a legal holiday.
   (C)   Special meetings and public hearings may be called at any time by the
Mayor or any three members of the legislative body upon written notice
delivered personally or by mail to each member of the legislative body, and to
each local newspaper of general circulation, each news service and each local
radio or television station which has on file with the legislative body a
written request to be notified of special meetings. The notice of special
meetings must be delivered personally or by mail at least 24 hours prior to the
time of each meeting as specified in the notice. If time does not permit giving
a 24-hour notice, then notice that is reasonable under existing circumstances
and is calculated to inform the public shall be given to the news media and the
public.
   (D)   The notice provided for in division (C) above is not required in the
event that a special meeting is called to deal with an emergency involving
injury or damage to personal property or financial loss to the city or the
likelihood of injury or damage or financial loss, when the time requirements of
the notice of the special meeting will make the notice impractical and increase
the likelihood of injury or damage or financial loss.
   (E)   With the exception of special meetings called pursuant to division (D)
above, no special meeting shall be held except in full compliance with the
provision of division (C) above.
(Ord. 2, Series 1982, passed 1-22-1982; Ord. 14, Series 1984, passed 9-17-1984;
Ord. 91-02, passed 6-6-1991; Ord. 06-04, passed 3-2-2006; Ord. 08-01, passed 2-
7-2008; Ord. 03-10-16-B, passed 4-14-2016)
§ 32.17 AGENDA FOR CITY COMMISSION MEETINGS.
   (A)   All items to be placed on the agenda for a regular Commission meeting
shall be placed on the agenda by the Mayor, the respective City Commissioners
or the City Clerk upon authorization by the Mayor or a City Commissioner, not
later than noon on the Monday next preceding the regular Commission meeting.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall prepare a written agenda for the meeting and
shall cause it to be delivered to the Mayor, each City Commissioner and the
Attorney for the city no later than noon on the Tuesday next preceding a
regular Commission meeting, or may place same in the United States mail,
postage prepaid, to those individuals so as to be picked up by the post office
on the Monday next prior to the meeting.
   (C)   At the time the agenda is mailed or delivered to the City Commission,
it shall become a public record and shall be posted at a conspicuous location
at or in City Hall.
   (D)   After the closing time for the agenda, no item shall be added thereto
unless done so at the meeting by a vote of the majority of the members of the
City Commission voting on the question of whether or not to add the item to the
agenda.
   (E)   Any item placed on the agenda shall be sufficiently specific to
reasonably inform the City Commission and the public of the nature thereof.
   (F)   No zoning case be placed on the agenda for a regular meeting unless it
reasonably appears to the City Clerk that the Mayor and each Commissioner have
had in their possession, for not less than seven days prior to the meeting, a
copy of the recommendations of the Louisville and Jefferson County Planning
Commission and that a copy of the proposed development plan, if any, is on file
with the city for a like period of time.
   (G)   Unless received by the City Commissioners an earlier date, the minutes
of all previous meetings to be approved at the next scheduled meeting shall be
attached to the agenda.
(Mun. Order 89-05, passed 5-4-1989)
§ 32.18 CONDUCT OF CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Anyone wishing to address the City Commission at a regular meeting
should (but shall not be required) to secure a position on the agenda by
contacting the Mayor, City Clerk or a Commissioner.
   (B)   Anyone speaking at a public meeting of the City Commission shall
address all remarks to the City Commission (and not to others in attendance).
   (C)   It is recognized that the duly elected City Commissioners and Mayor
represent the total population of the city and to that end, have a duty to
fairly represent the views of all citizens. Individuals in attendance at a
meeting do not necessarily have the right to be heard (or cast a vote) on each
item coming before the Commission. Discussion shall freely take place among the
City Commissioners and the Mayor (and other city officials); however, a City
Commission meeting shall not be a public hearing for citizen input.
   (D)   Any citizen speaking at a public hearing, shall first be recognized by
the presiding officer, and shall then state his or her name and address (even
if known to the entire City Commission so as to produce an accurate tape
recording). The citizen shall then concisely direct his or her remarks to the
entire City Commission.
   (E)   No matter shall be brought before the City Commission by any citizen
if the matter could be handled administratively, unless the matter is being
brought before the Commission as an appeal from an administrative
determination.
(Mun. Order 89-06, passed 5-4-1989)
§ 32.19 OPEN RECORDS.
   All records of the city shall be open to the public in accordance with the
regulations approved by the legislative body and a copy of the regulations and
application forms shall be kept by the City Clerk and made available to the
public on request.
(Ord. 2, Series 1982, passed 1-22-1982)
§ 32.20 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Commission
constitutes a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take
action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause, styled: “Be it ordained by the City of Middletown.”
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
(KRS 83A.060(4))
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Commission may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.42 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(7))
§ 32.39 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.40 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Commission is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Commission shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Commission has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.41, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.41 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years; and
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
Commission. If the Commission elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the
summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law
in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.43 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.44 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years, all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another, and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.45 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall
be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be
amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted
shall be maintained in an official order book.
(KRS 83A.060(12))
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the Commission has control.
(KRS 83A.060(13))
§ 32.46 PROVED BY CITY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of the ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 32.47 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, the Commissioners shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Historic Preservation Commission
   
33.001   Purpose
   
33.002   Definitions
   
33.003   Historic Preservation Commission
   
33.004   Designation of Historic Districts and landmarks
   
33.005   Recognition of designated structures of merit
   
33.006   Application to Commission for certificate of appropriateness
   
33.007   Consent of the Commission
   
33.008   Maintenance and repair of improvements
   
33.009   Time limits
Planning Commission
   
33.020   Definitions
   
33.021   Enforcement of binding elements
   
33.022   Authority of Planning Commission
   
33.023   Form citations and issuance
   
33.024   Hearings before the Planning Commission
   
33.025   Appeal of Planning Commission orders
   
33.026   Payment of fines
   
33.027   Civil action by city
Board of Exceptions
   
33.040   Creation
   
33.041   Composition
   
33.042   Session
   
33.043   Quorum
   
33.044   Adoption of bylaws
   
33.045   Powers and duties
Investment Committee
   
33.060   Creation
   
33.061   Membership
   
33.062   Adoption of investment policy
 
   
33.999   Penalty
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 33.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to effect the goals of preserving the
heritage and character of the early town of Middletown by promoting the
educational, cultural and general welfare of the public through preservation
and protection of historic buildings, places and areas, which have
architectural or historic value and specifically, but not exclusively, to:
   (A)   Effect and accomplish the preservation, protection, perpetuation and
use of historic landmarks, landmark sites and neighborhoods, areas, places,
structures and improvements having a special or distinctive character or a
special historic, aesthetic, architectural, archaeological or cultural interest
or value;
   (B)   Promote the educational, cultural, economic and general welfare of the
people and safeguard the city’s history and heritage as embodied and reflected
in landmarks, sites and districts;
   (C)   Stabilize and improve property values in those districts and in the
city as a whole;
   (D)   Foster civic pride in the value of notable accomplishments of the
past;
   (E)   Strengthen the economy of the city;
   (F)   Protect and enhance the city’s attractions to residents and visitors
and serve as a support and stimulus to business and industry; and
   (G)   Enhance the visual and aesthetic character, diversity and
distinctiveness of the city.
(Ord. 21, Series 1984, passed 1-3-1985; Ord. 94-06, passed 9-1-1994)
§ 33.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. Those areas or neighborhoods of the city where there are
sufficient landmarks and landmark sites to warrant a district designation to
protect those features in a uniform manner.
   LANDMARK. Historic structure or improvement which meets the criteria for
placement on the United States Interior Department’s National Register of
Historic Places.
   LANDMARK SITE. The site on which each landmark is located, with the
boundaries of each site conforming to the deed records of the Clerk of the
county.
   STRUCTURE OF MERIT. A structure of historical, architectural or aesthetic
merit which has not been designated as a landmark.
(Ord. 21, Series 1984, passed 1-3-1985; Ord. 94-06, passed 9-1-1994)
§ 33.003 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the City Historic Preservation Commission
(hereinafter referred to as the Commission). It is to consist of six members
appointed by the City Commission, at least four of whom should be residents or
property owners of the city and all of whom shall be persons with significant
ties to the city. Further, the City Commission should attempt to appoint
members who are qualified by special interest, knowledge or training in those
fields as history, architecture, law, real estate and construction.
   (B)   The term of office of the members shall be three year terms set by the
City Commission and shall be staggered so that no more than two of the member’s
terms shall expire in the same year--two members for three years, two members
or two years and two members for one year. The Chairman shall not vote except
in case of a tie.
   (C)   All meetings shall comply with the State Open Meeting Statute, KRS
61.805-61.850.
   (D)   Action shall be by a majority of all members, and a quorum shall
consist of a majority. A lesser number of a quorum may meet for discussions,
but no action pursuant to this subchapter can be taken by the Commission except
on a favorable vote of the members totaling a quorum.
   (E)   The meeting place shall be such as may be determined by the Commission
and shall be within the city.
   (F)   The Commission shall keep minutes and records of all proceedings,
including the number of votes for and against each question and the record of
the vote of each member. The Commission shall have the power to establish
committees as it deems necessary, from both within and without its membership,
and to give special recognition to outside groups and organizations.
   (G)   The Commission shall have those powers and duties as shall be
prescribed herein with respect to the establishment, regulation and promotion
of historic places, areas and sites and all necessary and applied powers to
perform those duties; including referring any failure to maintain historic
properties to the City Commission for enforcement action. The Commission, in
addition to the appropriations made by the city, shall have the right to
receive, hold and spend funds which it may legally receive from any other
source, both in and out of the state and for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (H)   The Commission shall have the authority to adopt all bylaws, rules and
regulations necessary to carry out its functions under the provisions of this
subchapter. Further the Commission shall have those powers and duties as will
enable it to qualify as a certified local government under the National
Historic Preservation Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 470 et seq. Every bylaw, rule and
regulation shall be submitted to the City Commission for approval or rejection.
(Ord. 21, Series 1984, passed 1-3-1985; Mun. Order 88-05, passed 9-1-1988; Ord.
94-06, passed 9-1-1994; Ord. 06-18-17-A, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 33.004 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND LANDMARKS.
   (A)   The Commission shall approve a list of historic structures which have
not been designated as landmarks and which are eligible according to the
Commission for the National Register. The list may be added to from time to
time. The purpose of this list shall be to recognize and encourage the
protection, enhancement, perpetuation and use of those structures. The
Commission shall maintain a record of historic structures in the city which
have officially been designated by agencies of the state or federal government,
and shall cause the structures to be added to the aforesaid list.
   (B)   The Commission may authorize those steps as it deems desirable to
recognize the merit of, and to encourage the protection, enhancement,
perpetuation and use of any designated landmark or any structure of merit in a
designated historic district, including, but not limited to, the issuance of a
certificate of recognition and the authorization of a plaque to be affixed to
the exterior or near the structure; and the Commission shall cooperate with the
appropriate state and federal agencies in those efforts.
   (C)   The Commission may make recommendations to the City Commission and to
any other body or agency responsible to encourage giving names pertaining to
city history to streets, squares, walks, plazas and other public places.
   (D)   The Commission shall, after the effective date of this subchapter,
undertake to establish and maintain a list of landmarks, landmark sites,
structures of merit and areas having a special historical, architectural or
aesthetic interest or value. This list may include single structures or sites,
portions of structures, or integrated combinations thereof. After public
hearings, the Commission may designate landmarks, landmark sites and historic
districts from the list. In the establishment of the foregoing list, the
Commission shall notify and solicit the views of property owners and residents
of structures, sites and areas proposed by the Commission to be included in
those lists.
   (E)   In considering the designation of any landmark, landmark site or
historic district, the Commission shall apply the following criteria with
respect to that property; provided, however, that no neighborhood, area, site,
place, structure or improvement shall be required to satisfy more than one of
these criteria to qualify for the description:
      (1)   Its character, interest or value as part of the development of the
heritage of the city, county, the state or the United States;
      (2)   Its exemplification of historic, aesthetic, architectural,
archaeological, educational, economic or cultural heritage of the city, the
county, the state or the nation;
      (3)   Its location as a site of a significant historic event;
      (4)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the culture and development of the city, the county, the state
or the nation;
      (5)   Its embodiment of distinguishing architectural characteristics;
      (6)   Its identification as the work of a locally or nationally
recognized architect or master builder;
      (7)   Its embodiment of elements of architectural design, detail,
materials or craftsmanship which represent a significant architectural
innovation; or
      (8)   Its unique location, significance, physical characteristics,
significant architectural historic characteristics, representing a neighborhood
or district within the city or representing an established or familiar visual
feature within a neighborhood or district in the city.
   (F)   A notice of the public hearing required hereinabove prior to the
designation of any landmark, landmark site, structure of merit or historic
district shall be mailed via certified mail return receipt requested by the
Commission or its designate not less than ten days prior to the date of the
hearing to all property owners having property affected by the designation as a
landmark, landmark site, structure of merit or historic district, including
adjoining property owners; provided, however, that failure of any property
owner or resident to receive the notice shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings.
   (G)   Whenever the Commission is considering the designation of an area or
building as a landmark, landmark site, structure of merit or historic district,
the Commission may proceed to list the designation if the owner or owners of
the land consent(s) in writing to the designation without complying with the
public meeting and notice requirements set out hereinabove.
   (H)   Each designated landmark, landmark site, structure of merit or
historic district may be marked as such by an appropriate plaque carrying a
brief description and account of the historic significance of the property.
   (I)   Nothing contained herein shall supersede the powers of other local
legislative or regulatory bodies or relieve any property owner of complying
with the requirements of any other statute or municipal ordinance or
regulation.
   (J)   The use permitted by the zoning applicable to the area included in the
historic district shall be permitted without restriction by the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (K)   Within five days after making any designation as provided for herein,
of a landmark, landmark site, structure of merit or historic district, the
Commission shall file a copy of same with the Clerk of the county, the
Department of Building and Housing Inspection, the County Works Department,
County Office of Historic Preservation and Archives, the City Volunteer Fire
Protection District, the Louisville and County Board of Health, the Louisville
and County Planning Commission, the Urban Renewal Agency and the Metropolitan
Sewer District.
   (L)   The Commission may effect the amendment or rescission of any
designation of an area, place, building or structure in the same manner and
procedure as was followed in the original designation.
(Ord. 21, Series 1984, passed 1-3-1985; Ord. 94-06, passed 9-1-1994)
§ 33.005 RECOGNITION OF DESIGNATED STRUCTURES OF MERIT.
   (A)   The Commission may approve a list of structures of historical,
architectural or aesthetic merit which have not been designated as landmarks
and are not situated in designated historic districts. The list may be added to
from time to time. The purpose of this list shall be to recognize and encourage
the protection, enhancement, perpetuation and use of these structures. The
Commission shall maintain a record of historic structures in the city which
have been officially designated by agencies of the state or federal government,
and shall cause the structures to be added to the aforesaid list.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to impose any
regulations or controls upon the structures of merit included on the list and
neither designated as landmarks nor situated in historic districts.
   (C)   The Commission may authorize those steps as it deems desirable to
recognize the merit of, and to encourage the protection, enhancement,
perpetuation and use of any listed structure, including, but not limited to,
the issuance of a certification of recognition and the authorization of a
plaque to be affixed to the exterior or near the structure; and the Commission
shall cooperate with appropriate state and federal agencies in those efforts.
   (D)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to impose any
regulations or controls upon the structures of merit as discussed herein not
included or designated as landmarks nor situated in historic districts.
(Ord. 21, Series 1984, passed 1-3-1985; Ord. 94-06, passed 9-1-1994)
§ 33.006 APPLICATION TO COMMISSION FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   No person shall cause, permit or suffer on a landmark, landmark site
or in an historic district, any construction, alteration or demolition without
a permit issued by the County Code Enforcement. All requests to the County Code
Enforcement for a permit involving landmarks or landmark sites or properties
within an historic district, shall be forwarded immediately to the Commission
for the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness. A certificate of
appropriateness issued by the Commission shall be required before a permit is
issued for demolition or alteration of a landmark, landmark site or in an
historic district.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALTERATION. Any act defined as an ALTERATION by the Kentucky Building
Code.
      CONSTRUCTION. Any act defined as CONSTRUCTION by the Kentucky Building
Code.
      DEMOLITION. Any act defined as DEMOLITION by the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The Commission shall promulgate and publish those standards as are a
necessary supplement to the provisions of this subchapter to inform residents
and property owners and the general public of those criteria by which the
applications for a certificate of appropriateness are to be measured.
   (D)   Before the commencement of any work in the erection of any new
building, or in the alteration or in the demolition of any existing building,
any portion of which is within an historic district or designated as a landmark
or landmark site, an application by the owner for a certificate of
appropriateness therefor shall be made to the Commission accompanied by the
full plans and specifications thereof so far as they relate to the proposed
alteration, construction or demolition. This application for a certificate of
appropriateness shall be considered at the next regular meeting of the
Commission provided the application is filed at least four days before the
meeting.
   (E)   All findings of the Commission on an application either granting or
refusing a certificate of appropriateness shall be in writing, a copy thereof
shall be sent to the applicant by certified mail with return receipt requested
and a copy filed with the City Clerk.
   (F)   If no action on an application for a certificate submitted to the
Commission has been taken at the expiration of 45 days from the date of
application and the submission of plans, the application shall be deemed to
have been approved and, if all other requirements of the city have been met,
the County Code Enforcement office may issue a permit for the proposed
building.
   (G)   All work performed pursuant to the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness shall conform to the requirements of the certificate. In the
event work is performed not in accordance with the certificate, the city or
county government through its designated representative shall issue a stop work
order and all work shall cease. No person, firm or corporation shall undertake
any work on the project as long as the stop work order shall continue in
effect.
(Ord. 21, Series 1984, passed 1-3-1985; Ord. 94-06, passed 9-1-1994) Penalty,
see §
33.999
§ 33.007 CONSENT OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet upon the call of the Mayor or a majority of
the Commission. The Commission shall hold regular and special meetings as it
deems necessary.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this subchapter to limit new construction to
any one period of architectural style, but to preserve the integrity of
historic structures and to ensure the compatibility of any new work constructed
in the vicinity.
   (C)   (1)   Upon application for a building (alteration, construction or
demolition) permit, the Commission shall determine whether the proposed work
would be appropriate for and consistent with the effectuation of the purposes
of this subchapter. In making this determination, the Commission shall
consider:
         (a)   The effect of the proposed work in creating, changing,
destroying or affecting in any manner the external architectural features of
the improvement upon which the work is to be done;
         (b)   The relationship between the results in the work and the
external architectural features of other improvements on the site or in the
historic district;
         (c)   The effect of the proposed work upon the distinctive character
or special historic, aesthetic, architectural, archaeological or cultural
interest or value of the landmark, landmark site or historic district; and
         (d)   The effect of the work upon the preservation, protection,
perpetuation and use of the landmark, landmark site or historic district.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
authorizing the Commission to regulate or limit, as such, the height and bulk
of buildings, the area of yards, courts and other open spaces, the density of
population, the location of trades and industries, the location of buildings
designed for specific uses or to create districts for those purposes; provided,
however, that the Commission may in performing its powers, duties or functions
under this subchapter apply regulations which are more restrictive than those
pursuant to other provisions of applicable law.
   (D)   (1)   Within 45 days after the filing of an application for a permit,
the Commission shall either:
         (a)   Give its consent;
         (b)   Approve a permit with modification;
         (c)   Disapprove the permit; or
         (d)   Serve notice on the applicant of the need for a public hearing.
      (2)   The applicant may request a public hearing, which shall be granted
by the Commission.
   (E)   (1)   Within 30 days after service of notice of a public hearing, the
Commission shall conduct a public hearing upon the permit and serve notice, by
certified mail return receipt requested, to the applicant of its decision
within 15 days after the hearing.
      (2)   This decision may be:
         (a)   A consent;
         (b)   An approval of permit with modification;
         (c)   Disapproval; or
         (d)   Call for additional public hearing with the consent of the
applicant.
      (3)   An applicant may request suspension or withdrawal of the
application at any time.
   (F)   If the Commission refuses to give consent to a proposed alteration,
construction or demolition change to a landmark or landmark site anywhere in
the city or to a non-landmark or non-landmark site within a designated historic
district, the applicant shall have the right to appeal the decision of the
Commission to the City Commission. This appeal shall be perfected by notifying
the City Clerk in writing within 30 days of any denial of an application by the
Commission, with a statement of the reasons the applicant feels that the
Commission erred. The decision of the City Commission shall be final unless
appealed to the County Circuit Court within 30 days from the date of the
decision in the same manner as an appeal of a zoning decision.
   (G)   If the Commission refuses to give consent to a proposed change to a
landmark or landmark site, the Commission shall have the power to impose and
enforce a waiting period of three months from the date of its notice of denial
or from the date of its first public hearing whichever is earlier, during which
period negotiations shall be conducted between the Commission and the applicant
or his or her delegated representative. During the negotiations, the Commission
may take into consideration ideas expressed by other concerned parties in an
effort to find a means of preserving the property as follows:
      (1)   The Commission shall also investigate the feasibility of all
available ways and means of preserving the historic landmark or landmark site,
including without limitation, inducing by contract or other consideration the
creation of covenants restricting the use of property, leasing and subleasing
the property for the purpose of preservation and acquiring by eminent domain or
contract or conveyance, all or any part of interest in the property; and
      (2)   The Commission shall request other government agencies to aid in
its investigations, and the other agencies shall prepare reports to the
Commission.
   (H)   The Commission may at its discretion extend the original waiting
period for alteration, construction or demolition relating to landmark or
landmark sites, or to landmark or non-landmark sites within a designated
historic district, of six months by up to an additional three months. During
this period and any extension thereof, the Commission and the applicant shall
undergo meaningful and continuous discussions for the purpose of finding a
method of saving the improvement. If the Commission refuses to give consent to
a proposed alteration, construction or demolition to a landmark or landmark
site within a designated historical district, the applicant shall have the
right to appeal the decision of the Commission to the City Commission. The
appeal shall be perfected by notifying the City Clerk in writing within 30 days
of any denial of an application by the Commission, with a statement of the
reasons the applicant feels that the Commission erred. The decision of the City
Commission shall be final unless appealed to the County Circuit Court within 30
days from the date of the decision in the same manner as an appeal of a zoning
decision.
(Ord. 21, Series 1984, passed 1-3-1985; Ord. 94-06, passed 9-1-1994)
§ 33.008 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Every person in charge of a landmark, landmark site or building in an
historic district shall keep in good repair:
      (1)   All of the exterior portions of the improvements; and
      (2)   All interior portions thereof which, if not so maintained, may
cause or tend to cause the exterior portions of the improvements to
deteriorate, decay or become damaged or otherwise to fall into a state of
disrepair.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall be in addition to all other
provisions of law requiring any improvements to be kept in good repair.
(Ord. 21, Series 1984, passed 1-3-1985; Mun. Order 88-04, passed 9-1-1988; Ord.
94-06, passed 9-1-1994)
§ 33.009 TIME LIMITS.
   Whenever, under the provisions of this subchapter, the Commission is
required or authorized within a prescribed period of time to make any
determination or perform any act in relation to any request for a permit, the
applicant may extend the period of time by his or her written consent filed
with the Commission.
(Ord. 21, Series 1984, passed 1-3-1985; Ord. 94-06, passed 9-1-1994)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BINDING ELEMENT. A binding requirement, provision, restriction or condition
imposed by the Planning Commission or its designee, or a promise or agreement
made by an applicant in writing, in connection with the approval of a land use
development plan or subdivision plan.
   LAND USE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A zoning enforcement officer employed by the
Planning Commission.
   LAND USE ORDINANCE. An official action of the city which is a regulation of
a general and permanent nature relating to the use and development of land
within the city. It is enforceable as a local law and includes any provision of
the city code of ordinances which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Louisville and Jefferson County Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 3-1-2001)
§ 33.021 ENFORCEMENT OF BINDING ELEMENTS.
   The violation of any binding element, as defined in §
33.020, shall constitute a civil offense which may subject the violator to a
civil fine and/or other remedial orders of the Planning Commission in
accordance with procedures set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 3-1-2001) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.022 AUTHORITY OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Commission may issue remedial orders and impose
civil fines as a method of enforcing a binding element when a violation of that
binding element has occurred.
      (2)   If the violation of a binding element would also constitute an
offense under any provision of the Kentucky Revised Statutes, including
specifically, and without limitation, any provision of the State Penal Code and
any moving motor vehicle offense, this violation of a binding element shall not
be a civil offense under this subchapter but a criminal offense which may be
prosecuted in the court of appropriate jurisdiction.
   (B)   In the exercise of its authority under this subchapter, the Planning
Commission shall have the power to:
      (1)   Adopt rules and regulations to govern its operation and conduct of
its hearing that are consistent with requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   Conduct hearings to determine whether there has been a violation of
a binding element;
      (3)   Subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings
and all subpoenas issued by the Planning Commission may be served by any Land
Use Enforcement Officer;
      (4)   Take testimony under oath and the Chairperson of the Planning
Commission may administer those oaths to witnesses prior to their testimony
before the Planning Commission on any matter;
      (5)   Make findings and issue orders that are necessary to remedy any
violation of a binding element; and
      (6)   Impose civil fines as authorized in this subchapter on any person
found to have violated any binding element that the Planning Commission is
authorized to enforce.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 3-1-2001) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.023 FORM CITATIONS AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings for the violation of a binding element shall
be initiated by the issuance of a citation by a Land Use Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   When a Land Use Enforcement Officer, based upon personal observation
or investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a violation of a binding
element has occurred, the officer may issue a warning notice and citation to
the offender. Prior to issuing a citation, however, the officer shall issue a
warning notice giving the offender ten days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
excluded, in which to remedy the violation. If the person to whom the notice is
given fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the specified time, the
Land Use Enforcement Officer may issue a citation. However, if the violation is
a threat to the public safety, the Land Use Enforcement Officer immediately
shall issue a citation without a prior warning notice.
   (C)   The citation issued by the Land Use Enforcement Officer shall be in a
form prescribed by the Planning Commission and shall contain, in addition to
any other information required by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the violation of the binding element was
committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the violation of the binding element;
      (5)   A specific description of the binding element violated;
      (6)   The name of the Land Use Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation;
      (8)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (9)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or to contest the citation within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the
Planning Commission to contest the citation, and that the determination that a
violation was committed shall be final.
   (D)   All citations issued shall be hand-delivered to the alleged violator.
After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Land Use Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Planning Commission by delivering the citation to the
administrative official designated by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   When a citation is issued, the person to whom the citation is issued
shall respond to the citation within 14 days of the date the citation is issued
by either paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or requesting, in
writing, a hearing before the Planning Commission to contest the citation. If
the person fails to respond to the citation within 14 days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this
event, the Planning Commission shall enter a final order determining that the
violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set forth in the citation.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 3-1-2001) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.024 HEARINGS BEFORE THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   When a hearing before the Planning Commission has been requested, the
Planning Commission, through its clerical and administrative staff, shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted within 30 days of the date
of the request, unless the person who requested the hearing requests or agrees
to a continuance not to exceed 30 days. All continuances must receive the
approval of the Planning Commission. Not less than seven days before the date
set for the hearing, the Planning Commission shall notify the person who
requested the hearing of the date, time and place of the hearing. The notice
may be given by certified mail, return-receipt requested; by personal delivery;
or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence with an
individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed
of the contents of the notice. Any person requesting a hearing before the
Planning Commission who fails to appear at the time and place set for the
hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to contest the
citation and the determination that a violation was committed shall be final.
In this event, the Planning Commission shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set forth in the
citation.
   (B)   Each case before a Planning Commission shall be presented by an
attorney who shall be counsel to the Planning Commission.
   (C)   All testimony before the Planning Commission shall be under oath and
shall be recorded. The Planning Commission shall take testimony from the Land
Use Enforcement Officer, the alleged offender and any witnesses to the alleged
violation offered by the Land Use Enforcement Officer or the alleged offender.
Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process shall be
observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (D)   After the hearing, the Planning Commission shall determine, based on
the evidence presented, whether a violation was committed. When the Planning
Commission determines that no violation was committed, an order dismissing the
citation shall be entered. When the Planning Commission determines that a
violation has been committed, it shall issue an order upholding the citation
and may order the offender to pay a civil fine in an amount up to the maximum
authorized by this subchapter, or may order the offender to remedy a continuing
violation within a specified time to avoid the imposition of a fine, or both,
as authorized herein.
   (E)   Every final order of the Planning Commission shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the date the order was issued, and a copy of the
order shall be furnished to the person named in the citation. If the person
named in the citation is not present at the time a final order of the Planning
Commission is issued, the order shall be delivered to that person by certified
mail, return-receipt requested, by personal delivery, or by leaving a copy of
the order at that person’s usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the order.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 3-1-2001) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.025 APPEAL OF PLANNING COMMISSION ORDERS.
   Any final order issued by the Planning Commission with respect to a citation
for the violation of a binding element may be appealed in conformity with KRS
100.413.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 3-1-2001)
§ 33.026 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   The person or entity found to have committed a violation of a binding
element shall be responsible for the amount of all fines assessed for the
violation. The Planning Commission may file a civil action in its name against
the person or entity and shall have the remedies provided in KRS 100.415.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 3-1-2001)
§ 33.027 CIVIL ACTION BY CITY.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking
immediate action in the court of appropriate jurisdiction to remedy a violation
of a binding element when there is reason to believe that the existence of the
binding element violation presents a serious threat to the public health,
safety and welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of
the binding element violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 3-1-2001)
BOARD OF EXCEPTIONS
§ 33.040 CREATION.
   There is hereby created by the city a Board of Exceptions.
(Ord. 90-04, passed 4-5-1990)
§ 33.041 COMPOSITION.
   The Board of Exceptions shall consist of the Mayor and the elected City
Commissioners who, together, shall constitute the entire Board of Exceptions.
The Mayor shall act as Chairperson of the Board of Exceptions.
(Ord. 90-04, passed 4-5-1990)
§ 33.042 SESSION.
   The Board of Exceptions shall be deemed to be in session at any time during
a regular Commission meeting or special Commission meeting called for that
purpose.
(Ord. 90-04, passed 4-5-1990)
§ 33.043 QUORUM.
   (A)   A simple majority of the City Commission shall constitute a quorum.
   (B)   Any member who has a direct or indirect financial interest in the
outcome of any question before the body shall disclose the nature of the
interest and shall disqualify himself or herself from voting on the question.
(Ord. 90-04, passed 4-5-1990)
§ 33.044 ADOPTION OF BYLAWS.
   The Board of Exceptions may adopt bylaws for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 90-04, passed 4-5-1990)
§ 33.045 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Exceptions shall have the power to hear and decide
on applications for exceptions to the sign regulations of the city.
      (2)   The Board may impose any reasonable condition or restriction on any
exception it decides to grant; provided, however, the Board shall have no
authority to grant a variance or exception to a zoning regulation of the
Louisville and County Planning Commission as adopted by the city, its
jurisdiction being limited to the granting of an exception to its own adopted
sign ordinance or regulation which would not conflict with county zoning
regulations.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Exceptions shall have the power to hear and decide
cases where it is alleged by the applicant that there is an error in any order,
requirement, decision, grant or refusal made by an administrative official in
the enforcement of the sign regulations.
      (2)   This appeal shall be taken within 30 days by the filing of a
written statement with the City Clerk styled “Appeal” and specifying the nature
of the appeal. The pendency of an appeal shall not stay or delay any
prosecution of any offense under the sign regulations and shall not constitute
a defense to the prosecution of any charge.
(Ord. 90-04, passed 4-5-1990)
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
§ 33.060 CREATION.
    The city hereby establishes the membership of the Investment Committee
(Mun. Order 94-12, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 33.061 MEMBERSHIP.
   The members of the Investment Committee of the city shall be:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Treasurer; and
   (C)   The City Commissioner who is in charge of finance.
(Mun. Order 94-12, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 33.062 ADOPTION OF INVESTMENT POLICY.
   The investment policy of the city attached to the order that enacted this
section is hereby adopted by the city, effective January 1, 1995.
(Mun. Order 94-11, passed 12-5-1994)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
33.001 through
33.009 shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100 for each offense.
Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates a binding element, as regulated in §§
33.020 through
33.027, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 and shall comply with
all remedial orders as may be issued by the Planning Commission. Each day
during which the binding element violation exists after the period granted by §
33.023 to remedy the violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 21, Series 1984, passed 1-3-1985; Ord. 94-06, passed 9-1-1994; Ord. 01-
03, passed 3-1-2001)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
34.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
34.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
34.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
34.06   Fiscal year
Improvements
   
34.20   Definitions
   
34.21   Financing of improvements
   
34.22   Apportionment of cost
   
34.23   Comprehensive report required
   
34.24   Public hearing required
   
34.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
34.26   Affected owner may contest
   
34.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
34.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Competitive Bidding
   
34.40   Competitive bidding and federal funding
Investment and Financial Management Policy
   
34.60   General investment policy and scope
   
34.61   Investment objectives
   
34.62   Investment authority
   
34.63   Standards of care
   
34.64   Authorized financial institutions, depositories, and brokers/dealers
   
34.65   Safekeeping and custody
   
34.66   Suitable and authorized investments
   
34.67   Investment parameters and performance standards
   
34.68   Reporting/disclosure
   
34.69   General provisions
   
34.70   Financial management policy
Cross-references:
   City Clerk, see §
31.36
   City Treasurer, see §
31.37
   Taxation, see
Chapter 36
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 34.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 34.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No monies shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Commission.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the Commission not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal
year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Commission shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations
for the fiscal year in those sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether
greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget
ordinance may take any form that the Commission finds most efficient in
enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Commission may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Commission. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to the Commission of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
34.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements and obligations, express or implied, beyond the existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate
or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent,
beyond the unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 34.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in KRS 91A.040(2) through (4), each city shall,
after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited
by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audit
shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) of this
section, a city with a population equal to or less than 1,000 based upon the
most recent federal decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every
other fiscal year in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
for that odd-numbered year cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall
be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (C)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A) of this
section, a city with a population of more than 1,000 but less than 2,000 based
upon the most recent federal decennial census may elect to have an audit
performed every other fiscal year to cover the two fiscal years occurring since
the prior audit in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
cause each fund of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or
a certified public accountant. The audit shall include both fiscal years since
the prior audit and shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the
fiscal years to be audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the
audit report to the Department for Local Government for information purposes by
no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal years being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (D)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with this division shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward one electronic copy to the Department for Local Government
for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this section for more than four consecutive
fiscal years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement
covering the fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption
under this section. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this
section shall be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as one
electronic copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than six
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this division shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement under KRS
424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an attestation
engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (E)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (F)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under divisions (A) to (D) of this section to the Legislative
Research Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the
Auditor of Public Accounts.
   (G)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the Commission at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (H)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (I)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules - Major Funds,” which shall
include the General Fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (J)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than $500, in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once, in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a
reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident bringing the action, shall be
assessed against the unsuccessful party.
   (K)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in divisions (A) to (D) of this section, the city
may submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for
Local Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government.
The Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is
submitted on or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the
Department for Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating
circumstances beyond the control of the city. Extensions granted under this
division shall not exceed nine months from the original due date of the audit
or financial statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an
extension for a city and the city fails to complete and submit the required
audit or financial statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then
the provisions of division (L) of this section shall apply.
   (L)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) to (D)
and (K) of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the
Finance and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the
audit requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) to (D) and (K) of this section for all prior
fiscal years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this
section, and the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the
reinstatement of payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld
due to the noncompliance.
   (M)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to state law, the auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 34.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Commission shall designate as the city’s official depositories one
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Commission which
states the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 34.06 FISCAL YEAR.
   July 1 to June 30 is hereby established as the fiscal year for the operation
of the city.
(Ord. 9, Series 1981, passed 6-30-1981)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 34.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all the properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the Commission of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received,
and other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to the front footage of all the properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by the facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefitted by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all the property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 34.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 34.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government or any educational, religious or charitable organization. The
Commission may assess the property in the same manner as for privately owned
property or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 34.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 34.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
34.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 34.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
34.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage, the city
shall publish the ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by
certified mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to
proceed with the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the
estimated cost to the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property
owner bears to the total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 34.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
34.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the Circuit Court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution shall be final and binding with respect to the
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 34.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
34.23, or after favorable final judgment in the action, whichever comes later,
the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Commission shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 34.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
34.23 through
34.27 apply if additional property is included in the improvement or if change
is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without this compliance, if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
COMPETITIVE BIDDING
§ 34.40 COMPETITIVE BIDDING AND FEDERAL FUNDING.
   Whenever federal funding is to be used in any city project, the city shall
use the Construction Contract Letting and Contract Award Procedures set forth
in 23 C.F.R. part 635.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 5-12-2011)
INVESTMENT AND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT POLICY
§ 34.60 GENERAL INVESTMENT POLICY  AND SCOPE.
   (A)   General investment policy. It is the policy of the City of Middletown
to invest public funds in a manner which will provide the maximum security and
highest investment of principle while meeting the daily cash flow demands on
the City of Middletown and conforming to both KRS 91A.060 and KRS 66.480. This
investment policy applies to all financial assets held directly by the City of
Middletown. These financial assets are accounted for in the City of Middletown
annual financial report and include all moneys in investment fund accounts.
   (B)   Scope. 
      (1)   This investment policy applies to all financial assets held
directly by the city. These financial assets are accounted for in the city's
annual financial report and include all moneys in the following funds:
         (a)   General Fund;
         (b)   Special Revenue Fund;
         (c)   Capital Projects Fund;
         (d)   Enterprise Fund;
         (e)   Utility Depreciation Fund;
         (f)   Agency Fund; and
         (g)   Any new fund created by the governing body.
      (2)   Financial assets of the city held and invested by trustees or
fiscal agents are excluded from these policies; however, such assets shall be
invested in accordance with state laws applicable to the investment of local
government funds and in accordance with the City of Middletown's primary
investment objectives.
(Ord. 08-08-19-B, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 34.61 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVES.
   The City of Middletown primary investment objectives, in order of priority,
are the following:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principle is the foremost objective of the City of
Middletown's investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner
that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. The
goal is to mitigate credit risk and interest rate risk.
   (B)   Liquidity. The City of Middletown's investment portfolio shall remain
sufficiently liquid to enable the City of Middletown to meet all operating
requirements which might be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Return on investment. The City of Middletown investment portfolio
shall be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return
throughout the budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the City of
Middletown's investment risk constraints and the cash flow characteristics of
the portfolio.
(Ord. 08-08-19-B, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 34.62 INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   Management's responsibility for the City of Middletown investment program is
the joint responsibility of the Designated Officials which shall be the City
Treasurer, Mayor and/or his or her designees. The Designated Officials shall
share the authority, subject to the final approval of the governing body, to
recommend additional specific written procedures for the operation of the
investment program that are consistent with this investment policy. No person
may engage in an investment transaction except as provided under the terms of
this policy and the procedures recommended by the Designated Officials, which
procedures have been approved by the City Commission. These Designated
Officials, along with the City Commission, shall be ultimately responsible for
all transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of controls to
regulate the activities of subordinate officials and employees. The controls
shall be designed to prevent and control losses of public funds arising from
fraud, employee error, misrepresentation by third parties, unanticipated
changes in financial markets or imprudent actions by officers and employees.
The Designated Officials shall maintain all records related to the entity's
investment program.
(Ord. 08-08-19-B, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 34.63 STANDARDS OF CARE.
   (A)   Prudence. The actions of the Designated Officials in the performance
of their duties as manager of the City of Middletown's funds shall be evaluated
using the "prudent person" standard. Investments shall be made with judgment
and care under prevailing circumstances which persons of prudence, discretion,
and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the probable income to be derived. The Designated Officials,
acting in accordance with written procedures, this investment policy, and
exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an
individual security's performance, provided that deviations from expectations
are reported in a timely fashion to the governing body and appropriate action
is taken to control adverse developments.
   (B)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal activity that could conflict
with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or that
could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose any material interests in financial
institutions with which they conduct business. Disclosure shall be made to the
governing body. They shall further disclose any personal financial/investment
positions that could be related to the performance of the investment portfolio.
Employees and officers shall refrain from undertaking any personal investment
transactions with the same individual with whom business is conducted on behalf
of the city.
   (C)   Delegation of authority.
      (1)   Governing Body. The governing body will retain ultimate fiduciary
responsibility for the portfolios. The governing body will receive monthly
reports, designate Designated Officials and review the investment policy making
any changes necessary by adoption.
      (2)   Designated Officials. Authority to manage the investment program is
granted to the Mayor and the City Treasurer, hereinafter referred to as
Designated Officials as designated by this subchapter. Responsibility for the
operation of the investment program is hereby delegated to the Designated
Officials who shall act in accordance with established written procedures and
internal controls for the operation of the investment program consistent with
this investment policy. Officers will prepare monthly investment reports and
other special reports as may be deemed necessary. All participants in the
investment process shall seek to act responsibly as custodians of the public
trust. No officer or designee may engage in an investment transaction except as
provided under the terms of this policy and supporting procedures.
   (3)   Investment Adviser. The city may engage the services of one or more
external investment managers to assist in the management of the entity's
investment portfolio in a manner consistent with the city's objectives. Such
external managers may be granted discretion to purchase and sell investment
securities in accordance with this investment policy. Such managers must be
registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(Ord. 08-08-19-B, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 34.64 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, DEPOSITORIES, AND BROKERS/DEALERS.
   A list will be maintained of financial institutions and depositories
authorized to provide investment services. In addition, a list will be
maintained of approved security brokers/dealers selected by conducting a
process of due diligence. These may include "primary" dealers or regional
dealers that qualify under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15C3-
1 (uniform net capital rule).
   (A)   The Designated Officials shall determine which financial institutions
are authorized to provide investment services to city. Institutions eligible to
transact investment business with city include:
      (1)   Primary government dealers as designated by the Federal Reserve
Bank;
      (2)   Nationally or state-chartered banks;
      (3)   The Federal Reserve Bank;
      (4)   Direct issuers of securities eligible for purchase; and
      (5)   Kentucky League of Cities Investment Pool Plus.
   (B)   Selection of financial institutions and brokers/dealers authorized to
engage in transactions with the City of Middletown shall be at the sole
discretion of the city.
   (C)   All brokers/dealers who desire to become qualified for investment
transactions must supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration;
      (3)   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire (not applicable to
Certificate of Deposit counterparties); and
      (4)   Certification of having read and understood and agreeing to comply
with the entity's investment policy. Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
   (D)   All financial institutions who desire to become depositories must
supply the following (as appropriate):
      (1)   Audited financial statements demonstrating compliance with state
and federal capital adequacy guidelines;
      (2)   Proof of state registration;
      (3)   Evidence of adequate insurance coverage.
   (E)   A periodic review of the financial condition and registration of all
qualified financial institutions and brokers/dealers will be conducted by the
Designated Officials.
      (1)   Minority, emerging and community financial institutions. From time
to time, the Designated Officials may choose to invest in instruments offered
by minority, emerging, and community financial institutions. All terms and
relationships will be fully disclosed prior to purchase and will be reported to
the appropriate entity on a consistent basis and should be consistent with
Kentucky law and city ordinance.
      (2)   Competitive transactions.
         (a)   The Designated Officials shall obtain competitive bid
information on all purchases of investment instruments purchased on the
secondary market. A competitive bid can be executed through a bidding process
involving at least three separate brokers/financial institutions or through the
use of a nationally recognized trading platform.
         (b)   If the city is offered a security for which there is no readily
available competitive offering on the same specific issue, then the Designated
Officials shall document quotations for comparable or alternative securities.
When purchasing original issue instrumentality securities, no competitive
offerings will be required as all dealers in the selling group offer those
securities as the same original issue price.
         (c)   If the city hires an investment adviser to provide investment
management services, the adviser must provide documentation of competitive
pricing execution on each transaction. The investment adviser will retain
documentation and provide upon request.
(Ord. 08-08-19-B, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 34.65 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   (A)   Delivery vs. payment. All trades of marketable securities will be
executed (cleared and settled) on a delivery vs. payment (DVP) basis to ensure
that securities are deposited in the entity's safekeeping institution prior to
the release of funds.
   (B)   Third-party safekeeping. Securities will be held by an independent
third-party safekeeping institution selected by the City of Middletown. All
securities will be evidenced by safekeeping receipts in the name of the City of
Middletown. The safekeeping
institution shall annually provide a copy of its most recent report on internal
controls, Service Organization Control Reports (formerly 70, or SAS 70)
prepared in accordance with the Statement on Standards for Attestation
Engagements (SSAE) No. 16 (effective June 15, 2011).
   (C)   Internal controls. Management shall establish a system of internal
controls, which shall be documented in writing. The internal controls shall be
reviewed by the investment committee, where present, and with the independent
auditor. The controls shall be designed to prevent the loss of public funds
arising from fraud, employee error, and misrepresentation by third parties,
unanticipated changes in financial markets, or imprudent actions by employees
and officers of the city.
(Ord. 08-08-19-B, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 34.66 SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Investment types and credit guidelines. Consistent with the GFOA
Policy Statement and Kentucky laws and city ordinances concerning investment
practices, the investments as defined by KRS 66.480, are allowed. KRS 66.480(1)
restricts overall investment in (e), (f), (g), (k), and (l) of the following
types of securities to 20% of total local government investments:
      (1)   U.S. government obligations and instrumentalities including
obligations subject to repurchase, if delivery of these obligations is taken
directly or through an authorized custodian (see KRS 66.480(l)(a)).
      (2)   U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government obligations that carry the
full faith and credit guarantee of the United States for the payment of
principal and interest (see KRS 66.480(1)(b)).
      (3)   Federal Agency or U.S. government-sponsored enterprises (GSE),
obligations, participations or other instruments (see KRS 66.480(1)(c)).
      (4)   CDs issued by or other interest-bearing accounts of any bank or
savings and loan institution having a physical presence in Kentucky and that
are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or similar entity or
that are collateralized by any obligations, including surety bonds, permitted
by KRS 41.240 (see KRS 66.480(1)(d)).
      (5)   Uncollateralized CDs issued by any bank or savings and loan having
a physical presence in Kentucky rated in one of three highest categories by a
competent rating agency (see KRS 66.480(l)(e)).
      (6)   Bankers' acceptances, which must be rated in one of the three
highest categories by a competent rating agency (see KRS 66.480(1)(f)).
      (7)   Commercial paper, rated in the highest tier (e.g., A-1, P-l, F-l,
or D-l or higher) by a competent rating organization (see KRS 66.480(1)(g)).
      (8)   Bonds or certificates of indebtedness of this state and of its
agencies and instrumentalities (see KRS 66.480(1)(h)).
      (9)   Investment-grade obligations of state or local governments or
instrumentality thereof rated one of three highest categories by a competent
rating agency (see KRS 66.480(1)(i)).
      (10)   Shares of mutual funds and exchange traded funds as identified by
KRS 66.480(1)(j).
      (11)   Individual equity securities if the funds are managed by a
professional investment manager regulated by a federal regulatory agency and
are included within the S&P 500 pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(k).
      (12)   Individual high-quality corporate bonds managed by a professional
investment manager pursuant to KRS 66.480(1)(l).
   (B)   Important note. If the credit rating of a security is subsequently
downgraded below the minimum rating level for a new investment of that
security, the Designated Officials shall evaluate the downgrade on a case-by-
case basis in order to determine if the security should be held or sold. The
Designated Officials will apply the general objectives of safety, liquidity,
yield and legality to make the decision.
   (C)   Collateralization. Where allowed or required by Kentucky law full
collateralization will be required on all demand deposit accounts, including
checking accounts and negotiable (as authorized by respective state statutes)
and non-negotiable certificates of deposit.
      (1)   Authorized collateral. Acceptable collateral for bank deposits and
repurchase agreements shall include only:
         (a)   Obligations of the U.S. government, its agencies and GSEs,
including mortgage-backed securities;
         (b)   Obligations of any state, city, county or authority rated at
least AA by two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.
(Ord. 08-08-19-B, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 34.67 INVESTMENT PARAMETERS AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   Investment parameters. Credit risk is the risk that a security
or a portfolio will lose some or all of its value due to a real or perceived
change in the ability of the issuer to repay its debt. The city shall mitigate
credit risk by adopting the following:
      (2)   Diversification. It is the policy of the City of Middletown to
diversify its investment portfolios within the restrictions of state and
federal law. KRS 66.480(2)(a) limits local government investment in securities
to 20% of total investment with no more than 5% of total investment in a single
issuer absent exceptions in KRS 66.480(2)(d)(1) through (2)(d)(4). Furthermore,
local governments are restricted from investing 40% of allowed securities
investment total in mutual funds and exchange traded funds, individual equity
securities, and individual high-quality corporate bonds by KRS 66.480(2)(b).
   (B)   Performance standards/evaluation. The city's investment management
portfolio shall be designed with the levels of risk appropriate to conform to
performance benchmarks while meeting cash flow demands and comply with state
law.
(Ord. 08-08-19-B, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 34.68 REPORTING/DISCLOSURE.
   The Designated Officials shall submit, at least, quarterly an investment
report that summarizes recent market conditions, economic developments and
anticipated investment conditions. The report shall summarize the investment
strategies employed in the most recent quarter, and describe the portfolio in
terms of investment securities, maturities, risk characteristics and other
features. The report shall explain the quarter's total investment return and
compare the return with budgetary expectations. The report shall include an
appendix that discloses all transactions during the past quarter. The report
shall be in compliance with Kentucky law and shall be distributed to the
investment committee and others as required by law. Each quarterly report shall
indicate any areas of policy concern and suggested or planned revision of
investment strategies. Copies shall be transmitted to the independent auditor.
Within 40 days of the end of the fiscal year, the Designated Officials shall
present a comprehensive annual report on the investment program and investment
activity. The annual report shall include both 12-month and quarterly
comparisons of return and shall suggest policies and improvements that might be
made in the investment program. Alternatively, this report may be included
within the [entity] annual comprehensive annual financial report.
(Ord. 08-08-19-B, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 34.69 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Policy considerations.
      (1)   Exemption. Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy.
      (2)   Amendments. This policy shall be reviewed on an annual basis. Any
changes must be approved by the Designated Officials and any other appropriate
authority, as well as the individuals charged with maintaining internal
controls.
   (B)   Approval of investment policy. The investment policy and any
modifications to that policy shall be formally approved and adopted by the
governing body of the City of Middletown.
   (C)   Miscellaneous. The following documents, as applicable, are attached to
this policy. This will be city-specific and many cities will not have some of
the below documents:
      (1)   Listing of authorized personnel;
      (2)   Relevant investment statutes and ordinances;
      (3)   Listing of authorized brokers/dealers and financial institutions;
      (4)   Internal controls;
      (5)   Investment Guidelines Manual.
(Ord. 08-08-19-B, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 34.70 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT POLICY.
   The city hereby establishes that all city officials shall apply the
following policies and internal financial controls when dealing with the day to
day financial affairs of the city:
   (A)   Purpose. The City Commission, Mayor and all officials and employees
are responsible to manage the funds of the city effectively and to ensure the
financial management of these funds is properly controlled. All city officials
have a duty to care for and protect the funds and assets of the city and may
use those funds and assets only for the good of the city and for properly
authorized purposes.
   (B)   Internal controls. Oversight of the day-to-day expenditures are the
responsibility of the Mayor, Clerk and Treasurer and shall be subject to the
following internal controls:
      (1)   The city officials authorized to make purchases or request payments
are; the City Clerk, City Treasurer, Director of Operations, Police Chief,
Commissioners and Mayor.
      (2)   The Treasurer is responsible to intake and review any request for a
purchase or payment to determine that funds are currently available in current
budget and the affected expense account. No purchase or payment of any amount
may proceed unless and until the treasurer determines that funds are budgeted
and available. Thereafter:
         (a)   Any purchase or payment under $1,000 may be processed and paid.
         (b)   Any purchase or payment $1,000 and above may only be made after
a purchase order has be drafted, reviewed by the Treasurer for completeness,
correctness and signed by the Mayor.
         (c)   Any purchase or payment request $1,000 and above must
additionally be accompanied by two written quotes. If the difference between
the quote is over 25% difference, a third quote must be obtained. Any request
for quotes must contain a specific description of the product or services
requested. Quotes must be addressed to city of Middletown and must have a
detailed description of the product or service and a clearly defined price.
         (d)   Any purchase or payment request $10,000 and above must
additionally be approved through the City Commission.
         (e)   Insurance certificates are to be collected from contractors by
the employee making the purchase or service, and accompany purchase orders.
         (f)   Any purchase or payment $20,000 and above must be sent out for
public bid and advertised per KRS 424.260. Projects cannot be phased, in order
to be approved under a smaller amount and requirement. The Mayor may determine
that a certain purchase or payment meets exceptions listed in KRS 424.260 (such
as for professional services contracts) and therefore exempt a certain purchase
or payment from the public bidding requirements.
         (g)   Certain budgeted, normal and recurring expenses shall be exempt
from the procedures set out in divisions (A) - (D) of this section. The exempt
expenses are, monthly utility bills, all payroll expenses and taxes,
sanitation, legal fees & litigation, mowing, insurance, museum expenses, pre-
existing contracts for the community center, sidewalks and park expansion.
   (C)   Monitoring. Monitoring of city finances is an ongoing process. The
Mayor, Clerk, Treasurer and Police Chief will work closely to monitor the
finances. A comprehensive monthly report will be presented to the City
Commission for review and approval, which includes reports of actual income and
expenditure and comparison with budget, along with commentary on any material
variance.
      (1)   It is the intent of the city to separate specific work items
relating to finances, so that the same person is not able to make deposits,
record deposits and expenditures and make out checks.
      (2)   Any member of the City Commission may demand detailed accounting
for all receipts and payments.
      (3)   Salaries and wages shall be paid to non-elected staff in accordance
with a pay scale, which shall be adopted by the City Commission as part of its
annual budget. There shall be no changes or deviations from the adopted pay
scale for the year without the specific approval of the City Commission.
      (4)   It is the responsibility of the Mayor, Clerk, Treasurer and Police
Chief to establish an inventory of all the equipment, goods and personal
property owned by the city and to safeguard those assets. The inventory must be
provided to the city’s insurance earner so that risk of loss may be mitigated.
Any item (of any kind) surplus to the needs of the city, must be disposed of in
a way that complies with Kentucky Revised Statutes. This includes selling the
item if the item has resale value.
      (5)   Whenever possible, any and all persons who are handling or have
primary access to the money of the city should be bonded and/or insurance
coverage for theft loss obtained in the city’s insurance package.
      (6)   Request for reimbursement for any personal expenditure must be
accompanied by adequate documentation and explanation and must be approved as a
purchase order as set out above. When possible, reimbursement to a city
employee should be avoided in favor of direct payment by the city to the
vendor, based on an approved invoice.
   (D)   Debit/credit cards are to be monitored carefully and used sparingly.
Whenever possible, the maximum credit limit for each debit card or credit card
should be reduced to its lowest possible amount. In the event that a pre-
approved charge requires a temporary increase in the credit card limit, only
the treasurer or city clerk has authority to do a temporary credit limit
increase.
      (1)   Officials approved to have a city issued visa card are: Director of
Operations, City Clerk, and Police Chief.
      (2)   Credit card expenses must have a receipt from the merchant where
the expense was charged. No hand written receipts will be accepted. Credit card
purchases made on-line must have a printed receipt. Charges made via phone must
request a receipt emailed or faxed. All receipts must have purpose of charge
written on receipt and location (if applicable) of where expense is to be
charged. All receipts must be initialed by employee that charged expense.
Receipts are to be turned in to treasurer as often as you prefer, but at least
by every Friday. Credit card charges over $500 must be pre-approved by Mayor
and purchases over $2,500 must be done through also have a purchase ordered and
a purchase order should be used instead of charging to credit card. Lost or
stolen cards are to be reported to the company and the Treasurer immediately.
      (3)   Cash advances or withdraws are prohibited. When applicable, please
inform merchant the city is tax exempt.
      (4)   Lost receipts will need to be replaced by calling merchant to have
a duplicate receipt sent to Treasurer by e-mail or fax. Lost receipts that
cannot be recovered will be the personal financial responsibility of the person
that made the charge. Payment must be made to Treasurer as soon as the credit
card statement arrives in office (Treasurer will inform cardholders when the
statement arrives). If payment is not made when the statement arrives, charge
(s) will be deducted from employee’s payroll.
      (5)   The city may issue employees a fuel card for all city purchases or
fuel. If the city does go to a fleet fuel card, the card may only be used for
fuel purchases for city vehicles used for city purposes and no other. Each
employee is required to log in and record their individual usage of the fleet
fuel card, as instructed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 12-14-17-B, passed 12-20-2017)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
35.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
35.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
35.17   Public records not immediately available
   
35.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
35.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
35.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
35.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
35.22   Format of copies
   
35.23   Fees for copies
   
35.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
35.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
35.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
35.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local
authority funds. However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in
compensation for goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained
through a public competitive procurement process shall not be included in the
determination of whether a body is a public agency under this subsection;
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this definition; by a member or employee of the
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this definition; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of two or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this definition.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency discussed in division (8) of
the definition of PUBLIC AGENCY, above that are not related to functions,
activities, programs or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
(Ord. 08-12-21-A, passed 9-9-2021)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 35.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any Resident of the Commonwealth of Kentucky defined by KRS 61.870(10)
desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city shall make a
request for inspection by email to the City Clerk, at the office of the City
Clerk during regular office hours, except during legal holidays, or send Form
OAG-01 “Request to Inspect Public Record” to the City Clerk at the city’s
address. Form OAG-01 is available on the city website along with Ordinance 08-
12-21-A. The official custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of
the official custodian, may require Form OAG-01 with the applicant’s name
printed legibly on the application. Form OAG-01 to inspect public records may
be presented by hand delivery, mail or via email.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with this chapter and the Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870 to 61.884, and the
requested public records are immediately available, the custodian shall deliver
the records for inspection. A person may inspect public records at the
designated office of the city during the regular office hours, or in
appropriate cases, by receiving copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk or
in another office of the city as determined by the official custodian or
custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original copies of public
records from the offices of the city without the written permission of the
official custodian of the record. When public records are inspected at the city
offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the right to make
abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require
advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(Ord. 08-12-21-A, passed 9-9-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) through (3)
§ 35.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 35.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the Form OAG-01, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
(Ord. 08-12-21-A, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 35.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 35.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute
final agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
(Ord. 08-12-21-A, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 35.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
§ 35.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
35.26 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 35.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
35.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
§ 35.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes. The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may at its discretion provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
35.25
§ 35.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
35.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
35.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 35.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until a time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law;
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190;
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems;
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics, maps
or specifications of structural elements, floor plans and operating, utility or
security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased or
maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)    On the same day that a public agency denies a request to
inspect a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the Executive Director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General.
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health and safety programs.
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law, being KRS61.870 to
61.884.
      (14)    Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a public
university, museum or government depository from a donor or depositor other
than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of those
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited;
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31; and
      (17)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and make the
nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the possible
applicability of §
35.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. These records
shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
§ 35.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in Circuit Court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
   
36.01   County assessment adopted
   
36.02   Reserved
   
36.03   Reserved
   
36.04   Reserved
   
36.05   Reserved
   
36.06   Bank franchise and local deposit tax
§ 36.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the Jefferson County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Commission.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall mail tax bills, sequentially numbered, for the
assessment rolls as certified. Payment, penalty and interest shall be as set
out by the city’s yearly ad valorem taxing ordinance.
   (D)   The proceeds of the taxes shall be used for general operating expenses
of the city and payment of all expenses incurred in the necessary and proper
municipal functions.
(Ord. 21, Series 1980, passed 12-18-1980; Ord. 11, Series 1981, passed 8-21-
1981; Ord. 12, Series 1981, passed 9-8-1981; Ord. 14, Series 1983, passed 12-1-
1983; Ord. 7, Series 1986, passed 8-7-1986; Ord. 10, Series 1986, passed 9-4-
1986; Ord. 4, Series 1987, passed 8-6-1987; Ord. 10, Series 1988, passed 6-2-
1988; Ord. 89-03, passed 7-6-1989; Ord. 90-09, passed 6-14-1990; Ord. 91-06,
passed 6-6-1991; Ord.92-02, passed 6-4-1992; Ord. 93-02, passed 6-3-1993; Ord.
94-02, passed 6-2-1994; Ord. 95-01, passed 6-1-1995; Ord. 96-07, passed 6-6-
1996; Ord. 97-05, passed 6-5-1997; Ord. 98-02, passed 6-4-1998; Ord. 99-04,
passed 6-3-1999; Ord. 00-03, passed 6-1-2000; Ord. 01-07, passed 6-7-2001; Ord.
02-02, passed 6-6-2002; Ord. 03-03, passed 6-5-2003; Ord. 04-06, passed 6-3-
2004; Ord. 05-03, passed 6-2-2005; Ord. 06-10, passed 6- -2006; Ord. 07-02,
passed 6-7-2007; Ord. 08-02, passed 6-12-2008; Ord. 09-03, passed 6-11-2009;
Ord. 10-04, passed 6-10-2010; Ord. 11-02, passed 6-9-2011; Ord. 12-02, passed
6-14-2012; Ord. 13-05, passed 6-13-2013; Ord. 14-03, passed 6-12-2014; Ord. 14-
5, passed 6-12-2014; Ord. 05-31-16-A, passed 6-9-2016; Ord. 05-18-17-A, passed
6-8-2017; Ord. 05-15-18-A, passed 6-14-2018; Ord. 05-30-19-B, passed 6-13-2019;
Ord. 05-14-20-A, passed 6-11- 2020; Ord. 05-25-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 36.02 RESERVED.
§ 36.03 RESERVED.
§ 36.04 RESERVED.
§ 36.05 RESERVED.
§ 36.06 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on all “financial institutions”, as defined in
KRS Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the City of Middletown,
Kentucky for the 2011 tax year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the
rate of 0.000250 on all deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by
such financial institutions.
   (B)   For all tax years subsequent to the 2011 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established: the City of Middletown will issue tax bills to
financial institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the
tax shall be due with a 2% discount by December 31 of each year, or without the
discount by January 31 of each year.
   (C)   The City of Middletown, Kentucky shall have a lien for taxes upon any
and all property subject to the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall
be superior to all encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (D)   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid
before paid before January 31, for all subsequent tax years shall be deemed
delinquent and shall be subject to a penalty of 10% and shall bear interest at
the rate of 12% per annum.
   (E)   All money collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid directly
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Commission.
(Ord. 11-06, §§ 1-5, passed 7-14-2011)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Purpose of the City of Middletown Handbook
   
37.002   City government and organization
   
37.003   Effect, amendment and application of handbook policies
   
37.004   Employee handbook
   
37.005   Administration of the city personnel system
   
37.006   Conflicting policies
   
37.007   Severability
Hiring and Employment
   
37.020   At-will employment
   
37.021   Equal opportunity employer
   
37.022   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
   
37.023   Immigration Reform and Control Act (IRCA)
   
37.024   Application and advertisement of vacant positions
   
37.025   Application for position
   
37.026   Promotions and transfers
   
37.027   Hiring and selection
   
37.028   Employment of family members
   
37.029   Reporting code of ethics violations and penalties
   
37.030   Background and reference checks
   
37.031   Medical examinations
   
37.032   Employee bonding
   
37.033   New employee orientation
   
37.034   Introductory period for police
   
37.035   Job descriptions
   
37.036   Continuous feedback on employee performance
   
37.037   Personnel records
   
37.038   Change in personnel information
   
37.039   Access to personnel files
   
37.040   Job references
   
37.041   Record retention
   
37.042   Disciplinary practices/procedures
   
37.043   Demotion
   
37.044   Suspension
   
37.045   Voluntary and involuntary termination of employment
   
37.046   Layoffs (reduction in force)
General Employment Policies and Rules
   
37.060   Open door policy - complaint procedure
   
37.061   Sexual and nonsexual harassment
   
37.062   Workplace violence
   
37.063   Workplace safety
   
37.064   Reporting work–related accidents
   
37.065   Protection against retaliation for city employees
   
37.066   Drug- and alcohol-free workplace
   
37.067   Fraternization
   
37.068   Children in the workplace
   
37.069   Media communications
   
37.070   Hours of operation and work schedules
   
37.071   Tardiness
   
37.072   Meals and rest periods
   
37.073   Inclement weather and emergency closures
   
37.074   Standards of performance and conduct
   
37.075   Dress code and hygiene
   
37.076   Outside employment for employees other than police officers
   
37.077   Outside employment for police officers
   
37.078   Uniforms
   
37.079   Use of city property, equipment, time and personnel
   
37.080   Use of office and mobile telephones
   
37.081   Mobile telephones and communications devices
   
37.082   Vehicle use
   
37.083   Assigned city vehicles
   
37.084   Distracted driving
   
37.085   Vehicle accident reporting requirements
   
37.086   Information technology acceptable use
   
37.087   City social media
   
37.088   Employee guidelines for participating in social media
   
37.089   Employee privacy expectations
   
37.090   Smoke-free workplace
   
37.091   Customer relations
   
37.092   Open records policy
   
37.093   Cross-training
   
37.094   Suggestion system
Employee Financial Practices,
Reporting and Reimbursement
   
37.105   Purpose of the employee financial practices, reporting and
reimbursement policies
   
37.106   Employee expense reports and reimbursement
   
37.107   Use of a city credit card
   
37.108   Employee travel expense reimbursement
   
37.109   Reimbursable expenses related to official city business
   
37.110   Alcohol reimbursement policy
   
37.111   Conflicts of interests in contracts
   
37.112   Contract review and execution
   
37.113   Check handling by city employees
Classification and Compensation
   
37.125   Employment types and classification
   
37.126   Fiscal year
   
37.127   Official workweek
   
37.128   Overtime
   
37.129   Compensatory time
   
37.130   Work performed by nonexempt employees outside of normal working hours
   
37.131   On-call employees
   
37.132   Base salary and salary adjustment
   
37.133   Payroll deductions
   
37.134   Direct deposit
   
37.135   Time records
   
37.136   Unemployment compensation insurance
Health, Retirement, and Other Benefits
   
37.150   Limitations of coverage
   
37.151   Health insurance
   
37.152   Dental insurance
   
37.153   Vision insurance
   
37.154   Life insurance
   
37.155   Other optional benefits
   
37.156   Employee assistance program
   
37.157   Workers’ compensation
   
37.158   Return-to-work program
   
37.159   Retirement and social security
   
37.160   Employee education reimbursement
   
37.161   Public service loan forgiveness
   
37.162   Professional memberships, training, licensing and certification
Paid and Unpaid Leaves
   
37.175   Holidays
   
37.176   Vacation leave
   
37.177   Sick leave
   
37.178   Sick leave donation
   
37.179   Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)
   
37.180   Maternity and paternity leave
   
37.181   Adoption leave
   
37.182   Critical incident leave for police officers
   
37.183   Bereavement leave
   
37.184   Unpaid leave of absence
   
37.185   Jury duty and court-ordered appearances
   
37.186   Voting leave
   
37.187   Military leave
   
37.188   Absentee requests
Cross-reference:
   Social media usage policy, see §
31.55
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 PURPOSE OF THE CITY OF MIDDLETOWN HANDBOOK.
   (A)   The purpose of the City of Middletown Employee Handbook, as set forth
in this chapter, is to establish a uniform system for managing personnel
matters for all city employees. This chapter and the policies that it contains
provide direction for employees in the performance of their employment duties
so that employees can successfully contribute to the fulfillment of the city's
mission.
   (B)   The policies contained in this chapter are designed to reinforce the
core values of the City of Middletown. We believe that when employees act in a
manner consistent with the city's core values in their employment activities,
both employees and the citizens we serve will prosper.
   (C)   The city’s core values serve as the cultural foundation of the
organization. They embody the spirit and collective conscience of the city and
its employees. Our core values describe how we fulfill our mission by
representing the enduring ideals and principals that guide our actions.
      (1)   We believe:
         (a)   Kentucky's cities play an essential role in shaping the future
of the Commonwealth.
         (b)   Local decisions are best made at the local level.
         (c)   Our exceptional services help our city function effectively and
enhance the quality of life within the city.
         (d)   Building and cultivating relationships with other governments,
businesses, and individuals furthers the mission of the city.
      (2)   We embrace:
         (a)   Customer service based on attentive listening and measured by
timely and appropriate responses.
         (b)   Credibility built on a commitment to high ethical standards,
accountability, competence, and non-partisanship.
         (c)   Teamwork and continuous learning that drives improvement and
innovation.
         (d)   Caring and mutual respect that foster a supportive working
environment.
   (D)   Regardless of an employee’s primary area of work concentration, each
employee is foremost an employee of the City of Middletown. While each city
employee has different responsibilities, job duties and departmental
assignments in the organizational structure, employees are expected to work as
a team toward the common goal of advancing the interests of the city.
   (E)   We are pleased that our employees are part of the city family and hope
each employee views their employment as an opportunity to help advance our
community and thereby make it an even better place for future generations.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.002 CITY GOVERNMENT AND ORGANIZATION.
   The City of Middletown operates under the commission form of government.
Every city organized under the commission plan must have an elected mayor, and
four elected commissioners. The Mayor and Commissioners together comprise the
City Commission. In the commission form of government, all executive,
administrative, and legislative authority of the city is vested in and
exercised by the City Commission as a body. The executive and legislative
branches of government are combined in the City Commission with limited
exceptions as explained below. In the commission form of government, the City
Commission is required by KRS 83A.140(6) to separate all the administrative and
service functions of the city into departments by ordinance. The ordinance must
set forth the functions of the department, and the duties and responsibilities
of the department director/supervisors and employees. Each department must be
placed under the superintendence of one of the City Commission members at the
City Commission's first meeting each year. KRS 83A.140(6) gives Individual City
Commissioners authority to exercise certain executive and administrative powers
on a day-to-day basis within their superintendent role; however, ultimate
authority rests with the City Commission acting as a body. In other words, the
City Commission acting as a body has the power to review and, if necessary,
override any decision made or any action taken by an individual Commissioner in
their superintendent role. Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or a
majority of the City Commissioners.
   (A)   Powers and duties of the Mayor. In commission cities under KRS
83A.140, the Mayor is a full voting member of the legislative body with only
limited additional responsibilities and authorities as Mayor. These
responsibilities and authorities are the following:
      (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Commission and may
vote in all proceedings.
      (2)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
authorized by ordinance or resolution shall be executed by the Mayor on behalf
of the city.
      (3)   Many state statutes assign the Mayor the authority and
responsibility to appoint individuals to some, but not all, boards and
commissions. Specific statutes applying to each board or commission should be
consulted to determine the appropriate appointment procedure.
      (4)   The Mayor also acts as the ceremonial head of the city government
and is recognized as the head of the city government by the Governor for
purposes of military law and in emergencies.
   (B)   Powers and duties of the Commission. In commission cities under KRS
83A.140, the Commission as the legislative body wields legislative, executive,
and administrative power. The Commission has the power to:
      (1)   Enforce the Commission plan, ordinances and orders of the city and
all applicable statutes.
      (2)   Maintain liaison with related units of local government respecting
interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   Supervise all departments of city government and the conduct of all
city officers and employees under its jurisdiction and may require each
department to make such reports to it as it finds necessary.
      (4)   The Commission shall report to the public on the condition and
needs of the city government as provided by ordinance, but not less than
annually.
      (5)   The Commission shall designate one City Commissioner to serve as
Mayor Pro Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall act for the Mayor whenever the Mayor is
unable to attend to the duties of his or her office and he or she shall then
possess all rights, powers and duties of Mayor. If the disability of the Mayor
to attend to his or her duties continues for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Commission membership.
      (6)   In carrying out its duty to supervise the departments of city
government and the conduct of all city officers and employees under its
jurisdiction, the Commission may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties.
      (7)   Regular meetings of the commission shall be held at least once a
month at such times and places as are fixed by ordinance.
      (8)   The Commission shall by ordinance establish all appointive offices
and the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and
regulations for the public health, safety and welfare.
      (9)   The Commission shall by ordinance provide for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate such funds in a budget which
shall provide for the orderly management of the city’s resources.
      (10)   The Commission shall promulgate procedures to insure orderly
administration of the functions of city government and compliance with statute,
ordinance, or order.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
Statutory reference:
   For state laws concerning the City Commission, see KRS 83A. 140(2) and
83A.030(2)
§ 37.003 EFFECT, AMENDMENT AND APPLICATION OF HANDBOOK POLICIES.
   (A)   The City of Middletown Employee Handbook (2023 Edition) contains
information about the city’s employment policies and procedures and an overview
of the city's benefits. For specific information about employee benefits,
employees should refer to the plan documents, which are controlling. The
policies and procedures in this chapter are guidelines only. The city reserves
the right to interpret and administer the provisions of this chapter as needed.
The provisions of the Handbook will repeal and replace all previously adopted
policies and procedures governing employment with the city.
   (B)   Except for the policy of at-will employment, which can only be changed
in writing by the City Commission, this chapter and any of the policies and
procedures contained herein are subject to change at the discretion of the
city. The city may amend or terminate any policy or procedure contained in this
chapter at any time, with or without notice. However, the city will endeavor to
communicate any changes to all employees in a timely fashion.
   (C)   Each employee should read and become familiar with the information
contained in this chapter. Failure to comply with the city's policies or
procedures may result in discipline, up to and including termination.
   (D)   The provisions in this chapter are not intended to in any way create
any contractual obligations with respect to an employee’s employment.
   (E)   These policies and procedures are intended to cover most personnel
problems, actions and issues which may arise. Those not specifically covered
will be interpreted by the City Commission; such interpretation will be in
concert with the spirit and letter of these policies and procedures. In
addition, the City Commission may write administrative memoranda to interpret
or clarify existing policies. These memoranda will have the force of policy and
will be filed with the personnel policies and procedures.
   (F)   The policies contained in this chapter apply to all nonelected
officers and employees of the city regardless of their departmental assignment
or primary responsibilities. These policies may also apply to volunteers,
elected officials, and members of boards or commissions as required by state
and federal law or as noted within the policy.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.004 EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK.
   The City Clerk will ensure that a current copy of the Employee Handbook is
prepared and distributed to all new and current employees. All employees are
expected to read and sign the Handbook Acknowledgement (HR Form One) within 30
days of employment or within 30 days of any amendment to the Handbook. The City
Clerk will maintain a copy of the Handbook Acknowledgement Form in the
employee’s personnel file pursuant to the Kentucky Department of Libraries and
Archives Record Retention Schedule.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.005 ADMINISTRATION OF THE CITY PERSONNEL SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city's policies are applied and enforced by the City Commission
and supervisory employees, which include department directors and managers. The
city expects supervisory staff to foster a working environment where employees
take the primary role in their own professional growth and development.
Supervisory employees should provide continuous feedback to their employees
regarding performance and should immediately address any potential infractions
of these policies with employees.
   (B)   To ensure fairness and consistency in all personnel matters, the city
has designated the Mayor as the personnel officer to be responsible for general
oversight of the city's administrative staff. The Public Works Director will
serve as the personnel officer responsible for general oversight of all public
works employees. The Chief of Police will serve as the personnel officer for
all police staff. As is more fully discussed in §§
37.040 through
37.046, any job action taken because of a violation of the city's personnel
system will require any and all final actions to be made by the City Commission
as a body.
   (C)   Notification to the City Commission and compliance with the procedures
established by the city are required prior to a department supervisory employee
or other employee conducting any interview for potential employment or
internship, making any offer of employment or internship, or making any
modifications to the compensation or benefits of employees. No supervisory
employee or other employee will alter, suspend, or fail to enforce or adhere to
the policies contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.006 CONFLICTING POLICIES.
   In the event of any conflicting policies, rules, or regulations, those that
apply shall be based on the following in descending order: Kentucky Revised
Statutes; City of Middletown Code of Ordinances; City of Middletown Municipal
and Executive Orders, the City of Middletown Employee Handbook; the City of
Middletown Police Department Standard Operating Procedures; and finally, any
departmental policy and procedures manual or written directives.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.007 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of these policies or any procedure for their subsequent
application is held invalid, such invalidation will have no bearing or effect
on any other parts or sections.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
HIRING AND EMPLOYMENT
§ 37.020 AT-WILL EMPLOYMENT.
   All city employees are at-will employees. This means there is no contract of
employment, express or implied, and that either the city or the employee is
free to terminate the employment relationship at any time, with or without
cause. The city's At-Will Employment Policy will only be varied by a specific
written agreement that is entered into and signed by the City Commission and an
individual employee. Therefore, nothing contained in this chapter, or any other
document provided to the employee will be relied upon or interpreted to form a
contract binding upon the city regarding any benefit, policy, procedure, or
other term or condition of employment.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.021 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.
   (A)   The city is an equal opportunity employer. It is the city's policy to
afford equal employment opportunity to all qualified persons regardless of
race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, genetic makeup, gender
identity, pregnancy, childbirth, pregnancy/childbirth-related medical
conditions, national origin, disability, veteran or family status, an
individual’s status as a smoker or nonsmoker, or any other status or condition
protected by applicable local, state or federal laws, except where a bona fide
occupational qualification applies.
   (B)   The city's commitment as an equal opportunity employer extends to all
its employment and personnel practices including job opportunities, promotions,
pay and benefits, discipline, discharge, training, and other social and
recreational activities sponsored by the city.
   (C)   The harassment, retaliation, coercion, interference, or intimidation
of any employee due to that employee's race, religion, color, national origin,
sex, sexual orientation, genetic makeup, gender identity, pregnancy,
childbirth, pregnancy/ childbirth-related medical conditions, age, disability,
veteran, or family status, or because the employee is a smoker or nonsmoker is
strictly forbidden. Any employee who experiences such treatment should
immediately report it to their supervisor or other supervisory or management
staff in accordance with the Sexual and Nonsexual Harassment Policy within §
37.061 of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.022 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA).
   (A)   The city will offer equal employment opportunities for qualified
individuals who may have a physical or mental disability, including medical
conditions related to pregnancy, but who can still perform the essential job
functions with or without reasonable accommodations. The city will provide
reasonable accommodations to individuals qualifying under ADA only when that
accommodation does not create an “undue hardship” to the city.
   (B)   Any employee who feels they may need an accommodation to perform their
job functions should notify their supervisor in writing. Because analysis under
the ADA requires an open dialogue between the employee and the employer, the
employee and the supervisor are encouraged to discuss the situation openly and
involve the Mayor as the city personnel officer, the City Commission and other
necessary staff as appropriate.
   (C)   Medical information may be requested by the city to assist in
understanding the employee's capabilities and limitations.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.023 IMMIGRATION REFORM AND CONTROL ACT (IRCA).
   (A)   The city will comply with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986 (IRCA), including Form 1-9 requirements.
   (B)   Under IRCA, all employers must complete an Employment Eligibility
Verification Forms, commonly known as Form 1-9, for all current employees and
maintain those forms in a separate file for the longer of either:
      (1)   Three years from the first day of employment; or
      (2)   One year after the employment ended.
   (C)   IRCA prohibits employers from:
      (1)   Knowingly hiring, recruiting, or referring (for a fee) aliens who
are not authorized to work in the U.S.
      (2)   Requiring specific documents to complete Form 1-9.
      (3)   Retaliating against employees that file a charge or participate in
an investigation.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.024 APPLICATION AND ADVERTISEMENT OF VACANT POSITIONS.
   When a vacancy occurs, announcements for positions, other than those filled
from within, shall be publicized in a manner determined to be most beneficial
to the city by the Mayor as the city personnel officer subject to City
Commission oversight and input. Current city employees may be notified of the
vacancy by placing written notice(s) in strategic locations throughout city
offices. Notices posted will include position title, summary of duties,
position qualifications, and the time limit for applying. Employees who wish to
apply for the position must present a completed Employment Application Form to
the City Clerk. The City Commission may fill the vacancy by either promoting a
current employee or employing a person from outside of the existing city
government organization. When announcements of vacant position(s) are made
outside of the organization, any of the following procedures may apply:
   (A)   The city's open application policy allows persons interested in
employment with the city to complete an Employment Application Form at any
time, regardless of whether a vacancy exists, indicating the position(s)
applicable. A completed Employment Application Forms will be considered active
for a period of three months. Positions shall be left open for application for
at least ten days unless the Commission waives this requirement.
   (B)   The city may advertise all vacant position(s) in a newspaper or other
form of media. All announcements will include such information as where to
apply, deadline for applications, pay range for the position, summary of
duties, and position qualifications. All written announcements of vacant
position(s) will also contain the following statement, “An Equal Opportunity
Employer.” Written announcements of vacant position(s) also may include, “Any
applicant who needs an ADA accommodation in the employment selection process
will request the accommodation from the City Clerk.”
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.025 APPLICATION FOR POSITION.
   (A)   An Employment Application Form supplied by the city and completed by
the applicant will include information about the applicant's training,
experience, and additional information as required. Upon request, applicants
will be given a copy of the job description stating the duties of the position.
   (B)   No person may be appointed to a position unless information on the
official Employment Application Form is verified, and they meet the
qualifications for the position as set forth in the position description.
   (C)   The Employment Application Form must be signed and dated by the
applicant.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.026 PROMOTIONS AND TRANSFERS.
   Vacancies may be filled by transfer or promotion from within the city.
However, the city must advertise open positions even if there are internal city
employee candidates for transfer or promotion. Employees may apply for the
position by submitting a written request through the City Clerk. An employee
may be transferred or promoted from one position to another only if the
employee has the qualifications for the higher position. The same procedures as
those authorized for ascertaining qualifications for initial appointment to a
position will be followed. All pertinent documentation of said transfer or
promotion will be entered into the employee's personnel file.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.027 HIRING AND SELECTION.
   (A)   Appointment to a position within the city will be made only after it
has been determined the person being considered meets the qualifications set
out in the current job description for which the appointment is made.
   (B)   The policy will apply to current employees who request a transfer or
promotion to a vacant position, as well as new applicants for employment or
reemployment.
   (C)   The qualification of an applicant for a position will be ascertained
based on one or more of the following:
      (1)   Information the applicant supplies on the official Employment
Application Form.
      (2)   Written, performance, or physical tests or examination or any
combination which may be required for the position.
      (3)   Personal interview.
      (4)   Information and evaluations supplied by references given by the
applicant.
      (5)   Prior to employment with the city, but only after an offer of
employment with the city, the prospective employee with Middletown Police and/
or Middletown Public Works, must submit to and pass a pre-employment drug test.
      (6)   Other appropriate information as determined.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.028 EMPLOYMENT OF FAMILY MEMBERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the city's Ethics Ordinance §
38.055 of this title, the city finds that due to the size of its government and
the lack of compensation to its elected officials, and the casual service
historically rendered by family members, any prohibition of employment based
solely on relationships is not in the best interests of the city or its
taxpayers. The city recognizes that any expenditure of public funds is a public
trust. Any relationship must be fully disclosed to the City Commission.
   (B)   In this section, FAMILY MEMBER is defined as a spouse, parent, child,
brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
grandparent, or grandchild.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.029 REPORTING CODE OF ETHICS VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   An employee who becomes aware of a violation of any policy in the Code
of Ethics should report the violation promptly to any one of the following:
      (1)   The Board of Ethics;
      (2)   Their immediate supervisor or department director;
      (3)   The   City Clerk;
      (4)   The   City Attorney;
      (5)   The   Mayor;
      (6)   Any member of the City Commission; or
      (7)   Any supervisor with whom the employee feels comfortable discussing
the matter.
   (B)   All reports of a violation of the Code of Ethics shall be reduced to
writing by the reporting employee or by the person receiving the report. The
employee may use the Complaint Form (HR Form Eleven) for this purpose. The
report shall be signed by the complaining employee. All reports of violations
will be kept confidential to the extent feasible and appropriate under the
circumstances.
      (1)   All reports shall be reviewed and investigated. The violation will
be investigated by the Board of Ethics. The results of the investigation will
be communicated to the complainant, the alleged policy violator, and the City
Commission. Any employee found to have engaged in misconduct constituting a
violation of this policy will be appropriately disciplined, up to, and
including, dismissal.
      (2)   As provided under the Protection Against Retaliation for City
Employees Policy in §
37.065 of this chapter, an employee making a report under this policy will not
be discriminated against, or be subject to retaliation in any way, for having
made the report. Any person found to have discriminated, or retaliated, against
an employee who makes a complaint shall be subject to disciplinary action, up
to, and including, dismissal.
      (3)   The city recognizes that the question of whether a particular
course of conduct constitutes a violation of the city's Code of Ethics may
require a factual determination. The city also recognizes that false
accusations have serious impacts on innocent parties. If an investigation
results in a finding that the complaining party made a false accusation with
malice, or with a reckless disregard for the truth, the complaining party will
be subject to appropriate sanctions, including dismissal.
   (C)   An employee may speak directly to any member of the Board of Ethics
about a violation of the Code of Ethics if the employee has reported a
violation to members of management without result.
   (D)   Any report regarding an elected city officer shall be submitted to the
city Board of Ethics, who shall determine the course of the investigation and
the proper manner to address the complaint.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.030 BACKGROUND AND REFERENCE CHECKS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to perform pre-employment background
checks pursuant to KRS Chapter 335B. The purpose of performing these checks is
to determine and/or confirm, within appropriate legal and professional limits,
the qualifications and suitability of a candidate for the employment position
for which the candidate is being considered. Many of the city’s employees' job
duties involve working closely with other employees and/or the public,
significant city-related driving, access to safety-sensitive and expensive
tools and machinery, access to confidential information, or access to financial
accounts. Therefore, criminal records may exclude candidates with certain
criminal convictions that are determined to be job-related, as discussed below.
This policy will help ensure that employment-related decisions utilizing
preemployment background checks are made in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   The city will perform pre-employment background checks on all
candidates for employment once they have been offered the employment position
by using the Background Check Release (HR Form Three). Review will be limited
to information regarding only convictions that are determined to be job-related
and consistent with business necessity, as discussed below. In addition, if an
employee changes positions within the city, an additional criminal background
check may be required.
   (C)   Candidates for employment within the police department may be subject
to different requirements for pre-employment background checks. Please refer to
the Police Department policies and procedures for more information.
   (D)   The city requests that employees identify any arrests or criminal
convictions and complete a self-disclosure form. The city will individually
evaluate any arrest or criminal conviction disclosed by an employee prior to
deciding that employee's suitability for initial employment or continued
employment.
   (E)   In addition to KRS Chapter 335B, the city complies with the federal
Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), federal and state equal employment
opportunity laws and all other applicable legal authority that affect the
performing of pre-employment background checks.
   (F)   The results of a pre-employment background check are confidential and
are only to be shared with employees of the city on a strict “need to know”
basis.
   (G)   Under no circumstances is having a criminal history or conviction an
automatic exclusion to a candidate's eligibility for employment.
   (H)   All candidates are required to sign appropriate authorizations and
consents to allow the city to perform any pre-employment background checks.
   (I)   Background checks are conducted in accordance with all applicable
federal, state, and local laws, including any state-law restrictions regarding
criminal history information that may be obtained and/or used by the city for
employment purposes.
   (J)   This policy does not override city policy that candidates providing
false or misleading information on their application, during an interview, or
at any time during the hiring process, may be eliminated from any further
consideration. Candidates are expected to provide accurate and complete
information and not to omit material information needed for the city to make a
hiring decision.
   (K)   Pre-employment background checks should normally be completed after a
conditional offer of employment to the candidate. Therefore, all job offers
should be conditioned upon satisfactory completion of the pre-employment
background checks.
   (L)   Prior to taking any adverse action as to a job candidate, appropriate
pre-adverse and adverse action notices will be sent to the candidate pursuant
to federal and any state FCRA laws together with a copy of the report.
   (M)   All candidates will be individually reviewed by the City Commission
and the appropriate position supervisor. Decisions will be made with respect to
employment based on the totality of the candidate's qualifications and the
relevant results of the pre-employment background check.
   (N)   In general, the relevance of a particular pre-employment background
check to a candidate's eligibility for employment, or employee's eligibility
for continued employment, is based upon the following factors:
      (1)   The nature and gravity of the offense for which the applicant or
employee was convicted;
      (2)   The time that has passed since the conviction and completion of the
sentence; and
      (3)   The nature of the job held or sought.
   (O)   The city will only consider final adjudications of guilt (i.e.,
convictions and guilty pleas) for the potentially disqualifying offenses listed
below, or other offenses determined to be job-related. Convictions that have
been expunged, discharged, or otherwise vacated will not be considered. Various
states use different terminology regarding convictions. Therefore, if it is
unclear whether a certain offense resulted in a conviction, the City Attorney
should be consulted.
   (P)   A criminal history or conviction does not automatically preclude a
candidate’s eligibility for employment. To assist supervisors and the City
Commission in reviewing criminal records, below is a list of convictions that
may disqualify an applicant or employee from employment with the city:
      (1)   Crimes involving violence, theft, or drug distribution/trafficking.
Certain crimes involving violence, theft, or drug distribution/trafficking have
been determined to be job-related to all positions within the city.
Disqualification of applicants or dismissal of employees with certain
convictions outlined below is consistent with federal and state requirements.
         (a)   Violent crimes. The city has determined that felony convictions
within the past seven years for crimes involving violence may disqualify an
applicant or employee because of workplace violence concerns, the city’s desire
to provide a safe workplace for employees and customers, and because many of
the city employees have significant interaction with customers and/or coworkers
on a day-to-day basis and the city desires these interactions to be safe as
well.
         (b)   Theft or property-related crimes. The city has determined that
felony convictions within the past seven years for crimes involving theft,
dishonesty, breach of trust, or destruction of property may disqualify an
applicant or employee due to access to equipment and tools, inventory,
proprietary information, and/or financial or confidential information.
         (c)   Drug distribution/trafficking crimes. The city has determined
that felony convictions within the past seven years for crimes involving drug
distribution or trafficking may disqualify an applicant or employee because
these convictions also indicate a general disregard for federal, state, or
local law.
         (d)   The city does not generally disqualify applicants or dismiss
employees for drug possession or use convictions. This does not affect the
application of its Drug- and Alcohol-Free Workplace Policy.
      (2)   Computer crimes. Because of access to city confidential and
proprietary information, customer information, financial information, and/or
computer systems, the city has determined that felony convictions within the
past seven years for computer-related offenses are job-related for management
and office positions. Applicants or employees in these job categories who have
been convicted of such computer crimes present an unacceptable risk to the city
and may therefore be disqualified, absent mitigating circumstances.
      (3)   Driving crimes. To reduce potential city liability, the city must
review applicant and employee driving records for jobs where the job duties
include significant amounts of unsupervised, city-related driving. The city
will comply with all federal, state, and local requirements regarding motor
vehicle record checks including, but not limited to, obtaining consent from the
applicant or employee prior to requesting the record and complying with federal
and/or state FCRA requirements. Felony convictions within the past seven years
for vehicle-related offenses, including, but not limited to DUI and DWI, have
been determined to be job-related and present an unacceptable risk to the city.
Therefore, applicants and employees in positions that involve business-related
driving who have been convicted of such offenses may be disqualified, absent
mitigating circumstances.
      (4)   Individualized assessment. Before any applicant or employee is
disqualified based on their criminal history, the applicant or employee will be
given an opportunity to provide individual information regarding the
circumstances of that their criminal history. The City Clerk will request that
the applicant or employee submit a written, signed statement regarding their
criminal history. The City Commission and the position supervisor will consider
all information provided by each applicant or employee to determine whether the
information provided sufficiently mitigates the circumstances of the
disqualifying conviction pursuant to KRS Chapter 335B.
   (Q)   Credit checks are generally not part of the background check process
and are not used to make hiring decisions. In certain positions, such as
treasury functions and accounts payable/receivable, a credit check shall be
performed due to the nature of the responsibilities for such jobs, including
access to city accounts and cash and the ability to be bonded. Each applicant's
or employee's credit history will be reviewed, in the context of all other
available information regarding the applicant or employee, to determine whether
their credit history poses an unacceptable risk to the city. Such applicants or
employees will be provided with an opportunity to explain their credit history
prior to a final determination.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.031 MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS.
   (A)   In reviewing applicants' qualifications for certain positions and
ensuring that currently employed workers are fit and capable of performing the
essential functions of their positions, the city requires individuals to
undergo physical examinations, which can include drug tests.
   (B)   The general purpose of these examinations is to determine whether the
individuals being tested are physically able to perform the essential functions
of the job in question without creating a significant threat to the safety or
well-being of the individual, other employees, or members of the public. These
examinations and tests are conducted on a nondiscriminatory basis and in
conformance with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act and
other federal, state, and local laws guaranteeing fair treatment and equal
employment opportunity to individuals with disabilities and members of other
protected groups.
   (C)   Applicants for certain positions are required to undergo a post-offer
physical examination that evaluates their fitness and ability to perform the
essential functions of the positions for which they are being considered. All
conditional offers of employment extended to candidates who are asked to
undergo a physical examination are contingent on satisfactory completion of
this requirement within the scheduled period.
   (D)   In certain situations, the city can require currently employed workers
to undergo a physical examination that evaluates their fitness and ability to
perform the essential functions of their position.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.032 EMPLOYEE BONDING.
   All applicants seeking city employment involving the handling of city funds
or access to city financial accounts will be bondable and may be subject to a
post-offer credit check. All employees involved in the handling of city funds
or financial accounts will be bonded at the expense of the city.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.033 NEW EMPLOYEE ORIENTATION.
   (A)   An orientation will be made available to all new employees as soon as
possible after their first day of employment.
   (B)   The orientation will consist of the following elements:
      (1)   Explanation of the city's purpose and goals;
      (2)   Overview of the city's history, structure and operations;
      (3)   Overview of the city's management policies and procedures; and
      (4)   Other elements deemed appropriate.
   (C)   A copy of the employee Handbook will be made available to all
employees at each workstation. A signed Handbook Acknowledgement (HR Form One)
of the original employee Handbook and any revisions thereof will be required of
all employees subject to these policies. The signed statement will be
maintained in the employee's personnel file and retained pursuant to the
Kentucky Department of Libraries and Archives Record Retention Schedule.
   (D)   New hires may be introduced to all city department directors during
their first week of orientation, as well as to the City Commission.
   (E)   All new hires will be given a benefits package if they qualify. The
City Clerk, department director, or supervisor will cover with the employee the
benefits package and give the employee a due date when the package must be
turned in to qualify for the benefits package. Failure to submit the package on
the specified date may render the employee ineligible for some benefits.
   (F)   The new employee's schedule and job description will be discussed. The
City Clerk, department director, or supervisor will use the Job Description
Review and Acknowledgment (HR Form Two) to ensure the employee understands
expectations and is able to meet the physical requirements of the job. The Job
Description Review and Acknowledgment (HR Form Two) and the job description
will be signed and placed in their personnel file, and a copy will be given to
the employee.
   (G)   The City Clerk, department director, or supervisor will ensure that
all required state and federal forms are completed and placed in their
personnel file prior to the employee starting any physical work. All required
information will then be filed, as required, with the federal, state, and local
governments.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.034 INTRODUCTORY PERIOD FOR POLICE.
   (A)   Police officers will serve an introductory period of 12 months. If an
officer is required to complete basic training to receive certification, the
introductory period will begin after successful completion of basic training.
   (B)   While serving under the initial introductory period officers may be
dismissed at any time without the right of appeal, unless otherwise provided by
law.
   (C)   Completion of the introductory period in no way alters the at-will
status of the employee.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.035 JOB DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   The city considers the job description prepared and maintained for
every position as one of the most important documents to ensure effective
hiring practices and to provide equal employment opportunity to all qualified
individuals. The following procedures are designed to ensure the accuracy,
completeness, timeliness, and fairness of the job descriptions:
      (1)   Annually the City Clerk, with the assistance of the employees and
supervisors, may review the city's job descriptions to ensure that they are
accurate, complete, and up to date.
      (2)   Whenever possible, the supervisor should seek employee input in
reviewing the description's accuracy and completeness.
      (3)   The job descriptions should contain information that accurately
reflects each position's essential functions, duties, responsibilities,
purpose, working conditions, and reporting relationships as well as the
knowledge, skills, and abilities required of employees.
   (B)   Each time a job description is updated, the City Clerk, department
director or supervisor will use the Job Description Review and Acknowledgment
(HR Form Two) to ensure the employee understands the job's expectations and is
able to meet the physical requirements of the job. The Job Description Review
and Acknowledgment (HR Form Two) and the job description will be signed and
placed in the employee's personnel file, and a copy will be given to the
employee.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.036 CONTINUOUS FEEDBACK ON EMPLOYEE PERFORMANCE.
   (A)   Employee performance will be evaluated by supervisors on a continuous
basis.
   (B)   Each January, supervisors will meet with employees individually to set
goals for the year.
   (C)   Supervisors will coach employees by recognizing positive performance
and providing constructive feedback for improvement. Supervisors will also
regularly discuss employee progress toward their annual goal(s).
   (D)   Supervisors will promptly provide appropriate feedback following the
employee's performance. Supervisors will then document these discussions on the
Continuous Feedback (HR Form Sixteen). The form will remain in the employee's
personnel file.
   (E)   For specific policies regarding evaluations for sworn police officers,
refer to the Police Policy and Procedure Manual.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.037 PERSONNEL RECORDS.
   (A)   A personnel file will be maintained for each city employee by the City
Clerk. All changes in the status of employees will be recorded in these files,
which will be retained and maintained in accordance with applicable state and
federal laws.
   (B)   The personnel file shall include:
      (1)   Employee's name, permanent address, and phone number;
      (2)   Position title;
      (3)   Completed application form;
      (4)   Hiring date;
      (5)   Departmental assignment;
      (6)   Salary;
      (7)   Employee forms for taxes;
      (8)   Retirement application;
      (9)   Disciplinary actions;
      (10)   Awards received;
      (11)   Training records;
      (12)   Performance reviews/ continuous feedback forms;
      (13)   All changes in status as a city employee; and
      (14)   Whatever additional information these ordinances, other governing
laws, or the city may require.
   (C)   Information regarding the medical condition or history of an employee,
including drug test results, will be collected and maintained on separate forms
and in separate confidential medical files subject to disclosure only as
permitted by law.
   (D)   The 1-9 Forms shall also be kept in a separate file in alphabetical
order.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.038 CHANGE IN PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of each employee to promptly notify the City
Treasurer of any changes in personnel data by completing the Change in Personal
Information (HR Form Fourteen). Personal mailing addresses, telephone numbers,
number and names of dependents, individuals to be contacted in the event of an
emergency, educational accomplishments, and similar status reports should be
accurate and current at all times.
   (B)   For necessary changes to be made without affecting qualifications for
time-sensitive benefits such as health insurance, changes of marital status and
dependents must be made within 30 days of the qualifying event.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.039 ACCESS TO PERSONNEL FILES.
   (A)   The Treasurer and/or City Clerk maintains a personnel file on each
employee. The personnel file includes information such as the employee's job
application, resume, documentation of performance appraisals and salary
increases, and other employment records.
   (B)   Personnel files are the property of the city and subject to the Open
Records Act. Access to an employee personnel file is strictly controlled and
granted only to authorized individuals who have a legitimate reason to review
information in a file, or as authorized under the Open Records Act. Employees
will be notified of any request to view their personnel file.
   (C)   Access to the file is by appointment with the City Clerk with
reasonable advance notice. The City Clerk shall maintain a log of all those
requesting personnel file access. Employees may review their own personnel file
in the presence of the City Clerk. Requests by an employee for any documents in
their personnel file will require an open records request for documentation
purposes.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.040 JOB REFERENCES.
   (A)   All requests for job references and inquiries regarding an
individual's employment with the city will be forwarded to the City Clerk for
an appropriate response. The City Clerk will consult with the Mayor as
personnel officer and may permit the employee receiving the request to respond,
but the Mayor as personnel officer will review any response before it is
finalized. This section will not prohibit an employee from being listed as a
reference for an individual.
   (B)   The city's policy on job references is to provide dates of employment
with the city. The law may also require disclosure of incidents of workplace
violence involving the employee to a potential employer.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.041 RECORD RETENTION.
   The city will maintain all city records pursuant to the Kentucky Department
of Libraries and Archives Record Retention Schedule. A copy of the email
retention requirements can be found in the Appendix of the Employee Handbook.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.042 DISCIPLINARY PRACTICES/ PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The city seeks to encourage employees to change problem behavior
rather than focusing on punitive measures as a solution. In some instances,
these efforts may fail or be an unsuitable response to an offense. In these
instances, city supervisors may use the following disciplinary procedures,
depending on the severity or frequency of the offense or problem behavior.
Supervisors may use any of these disciplinary methods at any time. This list
does not require a progressive disciplinary methodology to be used by
supervisors:
      (1)   Verbal warning, reprimand/coaching, or counseling by a department
director or supervisor.
      (2)   Written reprimand/counseling by a department director or
supervisor.
      (3)   Final warning.
      (4)   Suspension with, or without, pay.
      (5)   Demotion and/or reduction in pay.
      (6)   Termination of employment.
   (B)   The department director or supervisor shall notify the City Clerk to
initiate use of the disciplinary procedures in divisions (A)(4), (A)(5) or (A)
(6) above of this section. The City Clerk shall be responsible for informing
and involving the City Commission and legal staff when this occurs and the
final determination on imposing these disciplinary procedures must be made by
the Commission as a body.
   (C)   Department directors and supervisors using the disciplinary procedures
outlined in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) and (A)(3) of this section shall:
      (1)   Document any disciplinary session or conference conducted for the
purposes of correcting behaviors that are in violation of the policies
contained in this chapter or are conducted with the intent to correct
reoccurring issues related to employee performance on the Disciplinary Form (HR
Form Fifteen); and
      (2)   Provide a copy of any written documentation related to the use of
disciplinary procedures to the City Clerk for placement in the employee's
personnel file.
   (D)   For police officers, any general personnel matter will be handled as
stated above; however, any external complaint filed against a police officer or
any violation of law enforcement procedures, will require the city to follow
the process outlined in KRS 15.520, once the officer has completed the
introductory period.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.043 DEMOTION.
   (A)   An employee may be demoted upon recommendation of a department
director or supervisor, on the Disciplinary Form (HR Form Fifteen), only with
the approval of the City Commission.
   (B)   The provisions of KRS 15.520 shall regulate demotions of officers in
the Police Department who have completed the introductory period only when
involving an external citizen's complaint or any violation of law enforcement
procedures and the officer has completed the introductory period.
   (C)   All pertinent documentation of demotions, including the Disciplinary
Form, shall be entered into the employee's personnel file.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.044 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The department director or supervisor may:
      (1)   Suspend the employee with pay until the Commission reviews the
violation, provided that the Commission has delegated this authority to the
department director or supervisor by an executive order in accordance with KRS
83A; and/or
      (2)   Request in writing on the Disciplinary Form (HR Form Fifteen) that
the Commission suspend the employee with, or without pay. The request shall
include the reason(s) for the suspension, along with details of previous
disciplinary action regarding the employee.
   (B)   The City Commission may suspend an employee with, or without, pay for
any period up to and including four calendar weeks, depending upon the severity
of the offense; however, a maximum time limit shall not apply when an employee
is suspended with, or without, pay due to an investigation of an alleged
offense.
   (C)   The suspended employee shall be notified of the suspension in writing.
The notice shall include the reason(s) for, and duration of, the suspension (if
known).
   (D)   Employees suspended without pay for a period of one calendar month or
more shall forfeit fringe benefits, including accrual of sick and vacation
leave, as well as the city's contribution to any insurance benefits during the
suspension.
   (E)   If, after an investigation, the City Commission finds that the
suspension was not warranted, the employee shall be reinstated to their
position with back pay and benefits.
   (F)   The provisions of KRS 15.520 shall regulate suspensions of officers in
the Police Department who have completed the introductory period only when
involving an external citizen's complaint or any violation of law enforcement
procedures.
   (G)   All pertinent documentation of said suspension shall be entered into
the employee's personnel file.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.045 VOLUNTARY AND INVOLUNTARY TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The City Commission has the authority to appoint, and remove, all city
employees, except as otherwise provided by statute, ordinance, or contract.
Statutes that provide otherwise regarding the termination of employment
include:
      (1)   For police officers, KRS 15.520 applies to police officers that
have completed the introductory period, and only to any external citizen
complaint or a violation of law enforcement procedures, and requires a hearing
conducted by the city in the manner prescribed by KRS 15.520.
      (2)   For non-elected officers, KRS 83A.080 requires a written reason be
provided to the non-elected officer upon termination.
   (B)   Employees also have the right to terminate their employment at any
time and for any reason. The city asks that they provide a written notice at
least two weeks prior to their intent to leave in order to assist the city in
the smooth transition of their job duties.
   (C)   Employees cannot use accrued leave time (i.e., vacation, sick,
personal) to extend the termination date. The employee's last day actually
worked is the date of termination.
   (D)   In the event of the termination of their employment for any reason,
they must return all property of the city, including uniforms, keys, credit
cards, mobile phones, computer software and hardware, proprietary and
confidential materials, reports, and any other city property that may be in
their possession. This property must be returned prior to the last day of
employment. All pertinent documentation of said termination shall be entered
into the employee's personnel file.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.046 LAYOFFS (REDUCTION IN FORCE).
   (A)   The City Commission may lay off an employee or employees because of
lack of work or funds. The order of layoff shall be determined by the needs of
the city.
   (B)   Consideration will be given to both the seniority and merit of persons
being considered for layoff.
   (C)   Temporary employees, seasonal employees, and employees on an
introductory period will be laid off before full-time employees within class
(es) affected by the layoff.
   (D)   The City Commission will notify the employee(s) of the layoff in
writing, as soon as possible, prior to the layoff. The notice will explain the
reason(s) for and duration of the layoff (if known). A copy of the layoff
notice will be placed in the employee's personnel folder.
   (E)   An employee who has given satisfactory service and is laid off may be
eligible for reemployment in other positions if they meet the qualifications
for the position and if the position is vacant.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
GENERAL EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND RULES
§ 37.060 OPEN DOOR POLICY - COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   At the City of Middletown, all employees/volunteers are encouraged to
meet with their immediate supervisor to discuss any employment issues or
concerns that they may have. If the complaint is against a supervisor, or if
the employee/volunteer feels more comfortable, they may discuss the issue with
another director, supervisor, or member of the City Commission.
   (B)   The city is committed to maintaining this Open Door Policy, where
honest discussion of employee/volunteer concerns can take place in a safe, and
supportive, environment.
   (C)   Misunderstandings or conflicts can arise in any organization. To
ensure effective working relations, it is important that such matters be
resolved before serious problems develop. Most incidents resolve themselves
naturally; however, if a situation persists that the employee believes is
detrimental to them or to the city, they should bring their concern to the
attention of a director, supervisor, or member of the City Commission.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.061 SEXUAL AND NONSEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Sexual and nonsexual harassment of any kind is absolutely prohibited
and will not be tolerated. Sexual and nonsexual harassment negatively affects
morale, motivation, and job performance. It is inappropriate, offensive, and
illegal.
   (B)   Sexual harassment on the job is employment discrimination within the
meaning of Title VII of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 and KRS Chapter
344. In general, sexual harassment means any unwelcome or offensive sexual
advances, requests for sexual favors, or other verbal or physical conduct of a
sexual nature. Sexual harassment can come from a supervisor, fellow employee,
or a person other than an employee who has contact with the city employees.
Sexual harassment is unacceptable and is prohibited at work and in work-related
settings, such as business trips, business-related meetings, conferences, and
employee-related social events. Behavior that constitutes sexual harassment
includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Deliberate, repeated, or unsolicited verbal comments, gestures, or
physical actions of a sexual nature toward another employee.
      (2)   Approval, recommendation, or a refusal to take any personnel action
with respect to an employee or applicant because of:
         (a)   The employee's or applicant's rejection of sexual advances,
demands, favors, or sexual activity; or
         (b)   The employee's or applicant's reporting of a sexual advance or
demand for sexual activity.
      (3)   Explicit or implicit promises of preferential treatment regarding
an individual's employment status in return for sexual favors or sexual
activity.
      (4)   Exercise, or attempted exercise, of the power or authority of one's
position to control, influence, or affect the career, salary, job, or other
employment conditions of an employee or applicant in exchange for sexual
favors.
      (5)   Repeated sexual jokes, flirtations, advances, or propositions.
      (6)   Graphic verbal commentary about an individual's body, sexual
prowess, or sexual deficiencies.
      (7)   Leering; whistling; touching; pinching; assault; coerced sexual
acts; or suggestive, insulting, or obscene comments or gestures.
      (8)   The display in the workplace of sexually suggestive objects,
pictures, or reading material.
   (C)   Any conduct that is intimidating or hostile and interferes with an
employee's work performance is prohibited and will not be tolerated. This
includes harassment because of an individual's race, religion, color, national
origin, sex, sexual orientation, genetic makeup, gender identity or expression,
pregnancy, childbirth, pregnancy/childbirth-related medical conditions, age,
disability, veteran, or family status, or because the employee is a smoker or
nonsmoker.
   (D)   Any employee who believes they have been subjected to sexual or
nonsexual harassment should report the incident promptly to one of the
following: their immediate supervisor, department director, the City Clerk, the
City Attorney, Mayor, City Commissioner, or any other supervisor with whom the
employee feels comfortable discussing the matter. Employees are encouraged to
make prompt reports of the incident to ensure a timely response and for
remedial measures to be implemented, if necessary. However, all reports of
sexual and nonsexual harassment shall be reviewed and investigated regardless
of when the alleged misconduct occurred.
      (1)   All reports of sexual or nonsexual harassment shall be reduced to
writing by the reporting employee or by the person receiving the report.
Employees may use the Complaint Form (HR Form Eleven) for this purpose. The
report shall be signed by the complaining employee or the person receiving the
report. All reports will be kept confidential to the extent feasible and
appropriate under the circumstances. The City Clerk shall inform the City
Commission of the receipt of the complaint.
      (2)   All reports of sexual and nonsexual harassment will be promptly
investigated following the receipt of an incident report. The report will be
investigated by the City Commission and/or one, or more, members of the
management staff designated by the City Commission and the City Attorney. The
results of the investigation will be communicated to the complainant and to the
alleged offender. Any employee found to have engaged in misconduct constituting
sexual or nonsexual harassment will be disciplined, up to and including
dismissal. In addition, the city may take other steps to correct and prevent
future incidents from occurring.
      (3)   If the investigation results in a finding that any form of
harassment has occurred in the city workplace, the City Commission will create
a written report and/or a written update of the action taken by the City
Commission as a result of the finding. If the investigation results in a
finding that harassment did not occur, the City Commission shall create a
written report of the decision.
      (4)   As provided under the Protection Against Retaliation for City
Employees Policy in §
37.065 of this chapter, an employee making a report under this policy will not
be discriminated against or be subject to retaliation, in any way, for having
made the report. If an employee suffers any discrimination or retaliation for
making a report, the employee should immediately alert a member of management.
Any person found to have discriminated or retaliated against an employee who
makes a report shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including,
dismissal.
   (E)   The city recognizes that the question of whether a particular course
of conduct constitutes sexual or nonsexual harassment requires a factual
determination. The city also recognizes that false accusations of sexual or
nonsexual harassment can have serious effects on innocent parties. If an
investigation results in a finding that a person who has accused another of
sexual or nonsexual harassment has maliciously or recklessly made a false
accusation, the accuser will be subject to appropriate sanctions, including
discharge.
   (F)   Training in sexual and nonsexual harassment will be provided by the
city.
   (G)   Nothing in this policy should be construed as eliminating any
employee's rights under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended,
or under KRS Chapter 344, or as conferring enforceable legal rights beyond
those existing under applicable law.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.062 WORKPLACE VIOLENCE.
   (A)   The safety and security of all employees is of primary importance to
the city. Threats, abusive behavior, or acts of violence against employees,
citizens, or other individuals, by anyone on city property or off city
property, while performing job duties related to the city will not be
tolerated. These types of actions will lead to referral to appropriate law
enforcement agencies for arrest and prosecution. City employees who exhibit
this type of behavior will be disciplined or discharged. The city may take any
necessary legal action to protect its employees and will make every effort to
assist any employee experiencing threats of violence.
   (B)   Any person who makes threats, exhibits threatening behavior, or
engages in violent acts on city premises shall be removed from the premises as
quickly as safety permits and shall remain off city premises pending the
outcome of an investigation. Any employee who makes threats, exhibits
threatening behavior, or engages in violent acts while in performance of their
employment duties shall be immediately suspended, pending the outcome of an
investigation of the incident. Following an investigation, the city will
initiate an immediate and appropriate response. This response may include but
is not limited to suspension and/or termination of any business relationship;
reassignment of job duties; suspension or termination of employment; and/or
criminal prosecution of the person or persons involved.
   (C)   All employees are responsible for notifying city management personnel
of any threats that they witness, or receive, or that they are told another
person witnessed or received. Even without a specific threat, all employees
should report any behavior witnessed, that they regard as potentially
threatening or violent or which could endanger the health or safety of an
employee, when the behavior has been carried out on a city-controlled site or
is connected to city employment; or city business. Employees are responsible
for making this report regardless of the relationship between the individual
who initiated the threatening behavior and the person or persons being
threatened.
   (D)   Employees are encouraged to notify either their supervisor or the City
Clerk if an Emergency Protection Order (EPO) or Domestic Violence Order (DVO)
has been issued for their protection.
   (E)   The city will make every effort to assist an employee experiencing
threats of violence. Assistance may include:
      (1)   Confidential means for coming forward for help;
      (2)   Resource and referral information (e.g., Employee Assistance
Program);
      (3)   Leave of absence consideration; and
      (4)   Special safety considerations at the workplace.
   (F)   The city understands the sensitivity of the information requested and
will respect the privacy of the reporting employee to the extent allowable by
law. The city will endeavor to maintain the anonymity of a reporting party to
the extent feasible for cooperation with appropriate law enforcement officials.
   (G)   Any employee who acts in good faith by reporting real or implied
violent behavior will not be subjected to any form of retaliation or
harassment.
   (H)   An employee carrying a deadly weapon while performing work for, or
while on duty for, the City of Middletown does so as a voluntary act and not at
the request or direction of the city.
   (I)   Other than sworn law enforcement officers, no job descriptions or job
duties in the City of Middletown require an employee to possess a deadly
weapon.
   (J)   An employee that chooses to carry a deadly weapon has the
responsibility to know the law as to where they can, or cannot, legally carry
their deadly weapon. Some locations, including schools, prohibit the carrying
of deadly weapons by persons other than sworn law enforcement. Failure to abide
by these lawful restrictions in these locations, even while performing work
for, or while on duty for, the City of Middletown, may result in criminal and/
or civil personal liability.
   (K)   An employee that uses a deadly weapon may incur personal liability and
the City of Middletown may, or may not, indemnify the employee for such use.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.063 WORKPLACE SAFETY.
   (A)   The city prioritizes a safe working environment for its employees and
the public. For the employee's protection, job-related injuries, accidents, or
illnesses must be immediately reported in accordance with the city safety and
accident policy.
   (B)   Each department will consider the need for adopting safety practices,
policies, or procedures warranted by the hazards that department employees
encounter. Department directors and supervisors are encouraged to involve
employees in this process.
   (C)   A copy of such practices, policies, or procedures will be delivered
and explained in detail. Each department employee shall then sign a receipt,
which will be placed in the individual employee's personnel file, stating that
they have read and understand these practices, policies, or procedures.
Department directors and supervisors shall also explain to their employees that
a violation of these safety practices, policies, or procedures could lead to
disciplinary action, up to and including, termination of employment.
   (D)   Every employee must be safety-conscious and responsible for helping
the city achieve the goal of providing a safe workplace.
   (E)   Employees shall immediately report any unsafe or hazardous condition
to their department director, supervisor, or any supervisor that they feel
comfortable reporting.
   (F)   Supervisors shall immediately report any unsafe or hazardous condition
that has been reported to them or that the supervisor is aware of to the City
Commission.
   (G)   Any employee or supervisor who does not report unsafe or hazardous
conditions is subject to disciplinary action.
   (H)   Employees are expected to use common sense and good judgment in their
work habits and to follow safe work practices. Department directors and
supervisors shall ensure that safe work practices are utilized. Examples of
safe work practices are as follows:
      (1)   Using the proper safety equipment when performing a work
assignment.
      (2)   Not operating equipment or machinery while using prescribed
medication without a doctor's written approval.
      (3)   Under no circumstances should an employee operate any type of
machinery or equipment while under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
      (4)   Operating only equipment or machinery for which training, or
orientation, has been received.
      (5)   Warning coworkers of unsafe conditions or practices.
      (6)   Following all safety and operating rules posted on equipment and
machinery.
      (7)   Refraining from horseplay at all times.
      (8)   Wearing safety belts when operating city-owned vehicles or private
vehicles when on city business.
      (9)   All employees are responsible for maintaining current knowledge of
periodic rule/regulation changes made by the issuing state and federal safety
agencies following OSHA rules and guidelines.
   (I)   Periodic training will be arranged when appropriate in the judgment of
the department director. Employees will be required to participate in all
required safety-training programs offered by the city.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.064 REPORTING WORK-RELATED ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   Employees are required to immediately report any work-related
accidents, illnesses, or injuries. The proper reporting of such matters is
critical to ensure that an employee receives all benefits to which they are
entitled under the Kentucky Workers' Compensation Act.
   (B)   For the employee's protection, job-related injuries, accidents, or
illnesses must be reported the day that they occur, unless extenuating
circumstances prevent the employee from reporting within that time frame.
   (C)   The employee must call the “Company Nurse” on the Injury Hotline at
855-339-1889.
   (D)   The department director or supervisor, as well as the City Clerk,
shall be notified of all accidents involving city employees and/or city
equipment as soon as possible, but in no event later than the next workday.
   (E)   Accidents involving either city-owned vehicles or personal vehicles
being operated for city business shall be reported to law enforcement for
investigation and employees may be required to submit to drug and alcohol
testing pursuant to the Drug- and Alcohol-Free Workplace Policy.
   (F)   The city places great importance in this policy. All employees are
obliged to comply. Any employee that is discovered to have been aware of a
serious accident and failed to report it will face appropriate disciplinary
consequences.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.065 PROTECTION AGAINST RETALIATION FOR CITY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The city strictly prohibits retaliation, or discrimination, against
any employee who reports a violation of the policies contained in this chapter,
or a violation of any applicable federal, state, or local law or regulation to
city supervisory staff, the Board of Ethics, law enforcement authorities, or
other appropriate officials.
      (1)   No city employee shall use, or threaten to use, their supervisory
authority, or influence, to discourage, restrain, suppress, dissuade, deter,
prevent, interfere with, or coerce an employee from reporting any violation of
the policies contained in this chapter to their supervisor or any other member
of the city's supervisory staff.
      (2)   No city employee shall retaliate, or discriminate, against an
employee because they support, aid, or otherwise substantiate another employee
who reports a violation of the policies contained in this chapter to the Board
of Ethics.
      (3)   No city employee shall retaliate, or discriminate, against another
employee because they report a violation of the policies contained in this
chapter to the Board of Ethics after informing members of city supervisory
staff without satisfactory resolution.
      (4)   The city strictly prohibits retaliation, or discrimination, against
any employee who reports a violation of any applicable federal, state, or local
law or regulation to city supervisory staff, the Board of Ethics, law
enforcement authorities, or other appropriate officials.
      (5)   The provisions of this policy in no way alter the at-will
employment status of city employees. This policy does not create any
contractual, or other, rights for employees, and the city may alter, amend, or
remove any policy contained in this chapter at any time.
   (B)   Any employee who receives an official request from an outside agency
for information related to the city shall promptly inform their immediate
supervisor of the request. Any employee who receives a request from the media
for information related to the city shall forward the request to the City Clerk
and shall otherwise follow the Media Communications Policy in §
37.069 of this chapter.
   (C)   Any city employee who makes a false report of a violation, or
discloses information related to a report of a violation of city policies or
the law, with reckless disregard for the truth shall be subject to disciplinary
action, including the possibility of immediate dismissal.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.066 DRUG- AND ALCOHOL-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The city's mission is to ensure that all public service is delivered
safely, efficiently, and effectively. This mission is accomplished by
establishing a drug- and alcohol-free work environment and ensuring that the
workplace remains free from the effects of drugs and alcohol thereby promoting
the health and safety of employees and the general public. In keeping with this
mission, the city declares that the unlawful manufacture, distribution,
dispensing, possession, or use of controlled substances, or misuse of alcohol
is prohibited for all employees.
   (B)   This policy is intended to apply whenever anyone is representing or
conducting business for the city. Accordingly, this policy applies during all
working hours, while on call, or paid standby, and while performing work on
behalf of the city while on or off city property. The policy applies to all
city employees with special provisions designated to those employees identified
as having responsibilities requiring a heightened safety-awareness level
(HSAL). Those “safety-sensitive” positions identified as requiring a heightened
safety-awareness level include but may not be limited to:
      (1)   Police officers.
   (C)   Definitions of terms used throughout this policy:
      (1)   ACCIDENT means an occurrence associated with the operation of a
vehicle or equipment, if, as a result, the employer could reasonably believe
that employee drug or alcohol use could have contributed to an incident.
      (2)   ADULTERATED SPECIMEN is a specimen that contains a substance that
is not expected to be present in human urine, or contains a substance expected
to be present but, is at a concentration so high that it is not consistent with
human urine.
      (3)   ALCOHOL means the intoxicating agent in beverage alcohol, ethyl
alcohol, or other low molecular weight alcohols contained in any beverage,
mixture, mouthwash, candy, food, preparation, or medication.
      (4)   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION is expressed in terms of grams of alcohol per
210 liters of breath as measured by an evidential breath-testing device or in
blood alcohol content (BAC) when required for post-accident testing.
      (5)   CANCELED TEST is a drug test that has been declared invalid by a
medical review officer. A CANCELED TEST is neither positive nor negative.
      (6)   CONSORTIUM means an entity which may involve varied pools of
employers and their employees, established to provide cost-effective services
to employees to help the employers comply with the drug-free workplace program
requirements.
      (7)   DESIGNATED EMPLOYER REPRESENTATIVE (DER) is an employee authorized
by the employer to take immediate action to remove employees from safety-
sensitive duties and to make required decisions in testing. For purposes of
this policy, the department director of each department within the city are
considered the DERs.
      (8)   DILUTE SPECIMEN is a specimen with creatinine and specific gravity
values that are lower than expected for human urine.
      (9)   DISABLING DAMAGE means damage which precludes departure of any
vehicle from the scene of the occurrence in its usual manner in daylight after
simple repairs. Disabling damage includes damage to vehicles that could have
been operated but would have been further damaged if so operated. This does not
include damage which can be remedied temporarily at the scene of the occurrence
without special tools or parts, tire disablement without other damage even if
no spare tire is available, or damage to headlights, taillights, turn signals,
horn, mirrors, or windshield wipers that makes them inoperative.
      (10)   EMPLOYEE is defined in KRS 342.640 as every person in the service
of the city, under any contract of hire, express or implied, and every official
or officer of those entities, whether elected or appointed, while performing
their official duties; every person who is a member of a volunteer ambulance
service, fire, or police department; and every person who is a regularly
enrolled volunteer member or trainee of an emergency management agency as
established under KRS Chapters 39A to 39E.
      (11)   EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP) means an established program
providing:
            (a)   Professional assessment of employee personal concerns;
            (b)   Confidential and timely services to identify employee alcohol
or drug abuse;
            (c)   Referral of employees for appropriate diagnosis, treatment,
and assistance regarding employee alcohol or substance abuse; and
            (d)   Follow-up services for employees who participate in a drug or
alcohol rehabilitation program and are recommended for monitoring after
returning to work.
      (12)   EVIDENTIARY BREATH-TESTING DEVICE (EBT) is a device approved by
the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) for the evidential
testing of breath at the 0.02 and the 0.04 alcohol concentrations. Approved
devices are listed on the NHTSA- conforming products list.
      (13)   HEIGHTENED SAFETY-AWARENESS LEVEL (HSAL) (SAFETY-SENSITIVE)
POSITIONS are those positions involving special, dangerous, and skilled
activities and those that would involve exceptional duty to community citizens
in the area of public safety.
      (14)   MEDICAL REVIEW OFFICER (MRO) means a licensed physician (medical
doctor or doctor of osteopathy) responsible for receiving laboratory results
generated by the drug testing program who has knowledge of substance abuse
disorders and has appropriate medical training to interpret and evaluate an
individual's confirmed positive test result, together with their medical
history, and any other relevant biomedical information.
      (15)   NEGATIVE DILUTE is a drug test result which is negative for the
five drug/drug metabolites but has a specific gravity value lower than expected
for human urine.
      (16)   NEGATIVE TEST RESULT for a drug test means a verified presence of
the identified drug or its metabolite below the minimum levels. An alcohol
concentration of less than 0,02 BAC is a negative test result.
      (17)   NON-NEGATIVE TEST RESULT is a test result found to be adulterated,
substituted, invalid, or positive for drug/drug metabolites.
      (18)   PERFORMING A SAFETY- SENSITIVE FUNCTION includes any period in
which an employee is actually performing, ready to perform, or immediately
available to perform such functions.
      (19)   POSITIVE TEST RESULT for a drug test means a verified presence of
the identified drug, or its metabolite, at or above the minimum levels. In
addition, the claimed use of CBD product shall not be considered a medical
excuse for a positive marijuana test. A POSITIVE ALCOHOL TEST RESULT means a
confirmed alcohol concentration of 0.04 BAC or greater.
      (20)   PROHIBITED DRUG means cannabinoids/THC, cocaine, opiates,
amphetamines, or phencyclidine at levels above the minimum thresholds. In
addition, the city tests for benzodiazepines, propoxyphene, methaqualone,
methadone, barbiturates, synthetic narcotics, illicit substances, and volatile
substances as defined by KRS 217.900 and KRS 218A.010 as amended.
      (21)   REHABILITATION PROGRAM means a service provider that provides
confidential, timely, and expert identification, assessment, treatment, and
resolution of employee drug or alcohol abuse and may include inpatient or
outpatient programs, as well as the EAP.
      (22)   SAFETY-SENSITIVE FUNCTIONS include:
         (a)   The essential functions of actions performed by employees are
considered to establish a heightened safety-awareness level (HSAL) positions.
      (23)   SUBSTANCE means drugs or alcohol.
      (24)   SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROFESSIONAL (SAP) means: a licensed physician
(medical doctor or doctor of osteopathy); or licensed or certified
psychologist, social worker, employee assistance professional, or addiction
counselor (certified by the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse
Counselors Certification Commission or by the International Certification
Reciprocity Consortium/Alcohol and other Drug Abuse) with knowledge of and
clinical experience in the diagnosis and treatment of drug- and alcohol-related
disorders.
      (25)   SUBSTITUTED SPECIMEN means a specimen, with creatinine and
specific gravity value, that is so diminished that it is not consistent with
normal human urine.
      (26)   TEST REFUSAL is when an employee does any of the following:
         (a)   Fails to appear for any drug or alcohol test (except a pre-
employment test) within a reasonable time, as determined by the employer after
being directed to do so by the employer.
         (b)   Fails to remain at the testing site prior to the commencement of
the test and until the testing process is complete provided that an employee
who leaves the testing site before the testing process commences for a pre-
employment test is not deemed to have refused to test.
         (c)   Fails to provide a urine, saliva/breath, or blood specimen for
any drug or alcohol test, required by regulations or this policy.
         (d)   In the case of a directly observed or monitored collection in a
drug test, fails to permit the observation or monitoring of the employee's
provision of a specimen.
         (e)   Fails to provide a sufficient amount of urine or breath when
directed, and it has been determined, through a required medical evaluation,
that there was no adequate medical explanation for the failure.
         (f)   Fails or declines to take an additional drug or alcohol test the
employer or collector has directed the employee to take.
         (g)   Fails to undergo a medical examination or evaluation, as
directed by the MRO as part of the verification process, or as directed by the
DER. In the case of a pre-employment drug test, the employee is deemed to have
refused to test on this basis only if the pre-employment test is conducted
following a contingent offer of employment. If there was no contingent offer of
employment, the MRO will cancel the test.
         (h)   Fails to cooperate with any part of the testing process (e.g.,
refuses to empty pockets when directed by the collector, behaves in a
confrontational way that disrupts the collection process, and/or fails to wash
hands after being directed to do so by the collector).
      (27)   VERIFIED NEGATIVE TEST means a drug test result reviewed by a
medical review officer and determined to have no evidence of prohibited drug
use above the minimum cutoff levels established by the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS).
      (28)   VERIFIED POSITIVE TEST means a drug test result reviewed by a
medical review officer and determined to have evidence of prohibited drug use
above the minimum cutoff levels.
      (29)   VALIDITY TESTING is the evaluation of the specimen to determine if
it is consistent with normal human urine. The purpose of validity testing is to
determine whether certain adulterants or foreign substances were added to the
urine, if the urine was diluted, or if the specimen was substituted.
   (D)   Prohibited substances addressed by this policy include the following:
      (1)   Illegally Used Controlled Substance or Drugs Under the Drug-Free
Workplace Act of 1988. Any drug or any substance identified in Schedule I
through V of Section 202 of the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C. 812), as
further defined by 21 CFR Parts 1300.11 through 1300.15 is prohibited at all
times in the workplace unless a legal prescription has been written for the
substance. This includes but is not limited to marijuana/THC (this includes any
CBD product containing THC at or above the threshold), amphetamines, opiates,
phencyclidine (PCP), and cocaine, as well as any drug not approved for medical
use by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration or the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration. Illegal use includes use of any illegal drug, misuse of legally
prescribed drugs, and use of illegally obtained prescription drugs, such as
oxycodone, oxymorphone, hydrocodone, and hydromorphone.
      (2)   The appropriate use of legally prescribed drugs and nonprescription
medications is not prohibited. However, any HSAL employee taking any legal
substance which carries a warning label indicating that mental functioning,
motor skills, or judgment may be adversely affected must report this
information to a supervisor, and the employee is required to provide a written
release from their doctor or pharmacist indicating that the employee can
perform their safety-sensitive functions.
      (3)   The use of beverages containing alcohol (including any mouthwash,
medication, food, and/or candy) or any other substances such that alcohol is
present in the body while performing safety-sensitive job functions is
prohibited.
   (E)   Types of prohibited conduct include:
      (1)   All employees are prohibited from reporting for duty, or remaining
on duty, any time there is a quantifiable presence of a prohibited drug in the
body above the minimum threshold.
      (2)   No employee shall consume alcohol while at work or while on call.
If an on-call employee has consumed alcohol, they must acknowledge the use of
alcohol at the time that they are called to report for duty. The employee will
subsequently be relieved of their on-call responsibilities and be subject to
discipline.
      (3)   The city shall not permit any employee to perform any work-related
activity, especially safety-sensitive functions, if it has actual knowledge
that the employee is using alcohol.
      (4)   No employee shall report to work, or remain on duty, while having
an alcohol concentration of 0.02 or greater, regardless of when the alcohol was
consumed.
      (5)   No employee shall consume alcohol for eight hours following
involvement in an accident or until they submit to the post-accident drug/
alcohol test, whichever occurs first.
      (6)   No employee shall consume alcohol within four hours prior to the
performance of any job functions.
      (7)   The city, under its own authority, also prohibits the consumption
of alcohol at all times that the employee is on duty, or anytime the employee
is in uniform.
      (8)   Consistent with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, all employees
are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution,
dispensing, possession, or use of prohibited substances in the workplace while
in uniform or while on city business.
   (F)   Consistent with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1998, all employees are
required to notify the city management of any criminal drug statute conviction
for a violation occurring in the workplace within five days after such
conviction. Failure to comply with this provision shall result in termination.
   (G)   Testing requirements for this policy include:
      (1)   Analytical urine drug testing and breath testing for alcohol will
be conducted. All employees shall be subject to testing prior to employment,
for reasonable suspicion, following an accident, and random as defined in
divisions (M), (N), (O) and (P) of this section. All employees who have tested
positive for drugs or alcohol on a random test, reasonable suspicion test, or
post-accident test will be tested prior to returning to duty, after completion
of the substance abuse professional's recommended treatment program, and
subsequent release to duty as set out in divisions (Q) and (R). Follow-up
testing will also be conducted following return to duty for a period of one to
five years, with the duration and frequency of the follow-up testing, above the
minimum requirements, will be at the discretion of the SAP.
      (2)   All employees will be subject to blood draw for post-accident drug
and alcohol testing as a condition of ongoing employment with the city. Any
employee who refuses to comply with a request for testing shall be removed from
duty and terminated as set out in division (S) of this section. Any employee
who is suspected of providing false information in connection with a drug test,
or who is suspected of falsifying test results through tampering,
contamination, adulteration, or substitution, will be required to undergo an
observed collection. Verification of the above-listed actions will be
considered a test refusal resulting in the employee's removal from duty and
being terminated as defined in division (S) of this section. Refer to division
(C)(26) above of this section for behavior that constitutes a refusal to test.
      (3)   A drug or alcohol test can be performed any time an employee is on
duty.
   (H)   Testing for drugs and alcohol shall be conducted in a manner to assure
a high degree of accuracy and reliability and using techniques, equipment, and
laboratory facilities which have been approved by the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
(SAMHSA). The procedures will be performed in a private and confidential manner
and every effort will be made to protect the employee, the integrity of the
drug testing procedure, and the validity of the test result.
   (I)   Pre-employment testing shall be done as follows: All applicants shall
undergo urine drug testing within 48 hours after a conditional offer of
employment is made.
      (1)   An applicant shall not be hired into a position unless the
applicant takes a drug test with verified negative results.
      (2)   If an applicant fails a pre-employment drug test, tampers with or
attempts to tamper with a urine specimen in any manner, the conditional offer
of employment shall be rescinded. Failure of a pre-employment drug test will
disqualify an applicant for employment for a period of at least one year. The
cost for the assessment and any subsequent treatment will be the sole
responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   When an employee being placed, transferred, or promoted submits a
drug test with a verified positive result, the employee shall be subject to
disciplinary action in accordance with division (S) herein.
      (4)   If a pre-employment/pre-transfer test is canceled, the city will
require the applicant to take and pass another pre-employment drug test.
   (J)   Reasonable suspicion testing shall be conducted as follows:
      (1)   All employees and volunteers will be subject to a reasonable
suspicion drug and/or alcohol test when there are reasons to believe that drug
or alcohol use is impacting job performance and safety. Reasonable suspicion
shall mean that there is objective evidence, based upon specific,
contemporaneous, articulable observations of the employee's appearance,
behavior, speech, or body odor that are consistent with possible drug use and/
or alcohol misuse. Reasonable suspicion referrals must be made by one
supervisor who is trained to detect the signs and symptoms of drug and alcohol
use, and who reasonably concludes that an employee may be adversely affected or
impaired in their work performance due to possible prohibited substance abuse
or alcohol misuse. A reasonable suspicion drug test can be performed any time
the employee or volunteer is on duty.
      (2)   The designated employer representative (DER) or their designee
shall be notified of any indication of reasonable suspicion. Both the observing
supervisor and the DER or their representative (if available) will review the
policies and procedures herein, and if necessary, make arrangements with a
testing facility of the city's choosing to conduct reasonable suspicion drug
and/or alcohol testing as soon as possible. If the DER or their representative
is not available, the observing supervisor shall obtain the assistance of
another city supervisor or other credible and reliable source. They shall
complete the Reasonable Suspicion Observation Form and forward it to the DER.
If after completing the form it is determined that there is, in fact,
reasonable suspicion that the employee is under the influence of drugs and/or
alcohol, the observing supervisor or their designee will notify the employee
and accompany them to the testing site. Supervisors should avoid placing
themselves and/or others into a situation which might endanger the physical
safety of those present. The Reasonable Suspicion Observation Form shall be
attached to the forms reporting the test results.
      (3)   When a reasonable suspicion test is ordered, the employee must
submit to testing immediately. The observing supervisor and/or designee shall
remain at the testing site with the employee being tested until testing is
completed. Any employee who is tested for reasonable suspicion shall be placed
on administrative leave with pay until the results of the test are known. After
submitting to the drug/alcohol test, the employee may not return to work until
the results of the test are known and only then if the results are negative.
Only the DER may order a reasonable suspicion test.
      (4)   An employee who refuses an instruction to submit to a drug/alcohol
test shall not be permitted to finish their shift and shall immediately be
placed on administrative leave pending disciplinary action as specified in
divisions (S) and (T) of this policy.
   (K)   Post-accident testing will be conducted as follows:
      (1)   Employees are subject to blood drug and alcohol testing when needed
to evaluate the root cause of a workplace accident that harmed or could have
harmed employees, or where the employee's performance likely contributed to the
accident, and the employer has reasonable suspicion to believe that drugs or
alcohol may have contributed, or as required under state or federal law.
Testing is not limited to only the injured employee(s).
      (2)   Due to varying types of accident causes, not all accidents will
require post-accident testing. Exceptions for requiring post-accident drug and
alcohol testing will include, but may not be limited to the following types of
accidents or injuries:
         (a)   Injuries whose onset is cumulative or gradual such as carpal
tunnel syndrome, progressive hearing loss, mental disorders, dermatitis,
respiratory diseases, skin disorders, etc.;
         (b)   Injuries where the employee can be completely discounted as the
contributing factor (e.g., injuries caused by a third party or some other
uncontrollable force or event, such as weather, insects, etc.); or
         (c)   Injuries where the employee can be completely discounted as the
major contributing factor or those injuries occurring during physical fitness
or a training event, in which the employee did everything within reason to
avoid the injury or accident, (i.e., was performing training as instructed).
      (3)   Post-accident investigations must take place within two hours
following the accident.
      (4)   As soon as practicable following an accident, the supervisor
investigating will notify the employee operating the vehicle or equipment, and
all other employees whose performance could have contributed to the accident,
of the need for the blood test. All employees whose conduct could have
contributed to the accident will be subject to testing, not only the employee
who reported an injury. The designated employee representative (DER), along
with the supervisor, will make the determination using the best information
available at the time of the decision (See Post-Accident Documentation Summary
and Checklist.) Under no circumstances will the employee be allowed to drive
themselves to the testing facility.
      (5)   Pursuant to KRS 342.610(4), all post-accident testing will be done
by blood draw.
      (6)   The appropriate supervisor shall ensure that an employee required
to be tested under this section is tested as soon as practicable, but no longer
than eight hours following the accident for alcohol, and within 32 hours for
drugs.
         (a)   If a blood alcohol test is not performed within two hours of the
accident, the supervisor will document the reason(s) for the delay.
         (b)   If the alcohol test is not conducted within eight hours,
attempts to conduct the alcohol test must cease and the reasons for the failure
to test documented.
         (c)   If the drug test is not conducted within 32 hours, attempts to
conduct the drug test must cease and the reasons for the failure to test
documented.
      (7)   Any employee involved in an accident must refrain from alcohol use
for eight hours following the accident, or until they undergo a post-accident
blood alcohol test.
      (8)   An employee who is subject to post-accident testing who fails to
remain readily available for such testing, including notifying a supervisor of
their location if they leave the scene of the accident prior to submission to
such test, may be deemed to have refused to submit to testing.
      (9)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the delay of
necessary medical attention for the injured following an accident, or to
prohibit an employee from leaving the scene of an accident for the period
necessary to obtain assistance in responding to the accident, or to obtain
necessary emergency medical care.
      (10)   In the rare event that the city is unable to perform a drug and
alcohol test (e.g., employee is unconscious, employee is detained by law
enforcement agency), the city may use drug and alcohol post-accident test
results administered by local law enforcement officials in lieu of the test.
The local law enforcement officials must have independent authority for the
test and the employer must obtain the results in conformance with local law.
      (11)   The city reserves the right to test all employees whose conduct
may have contributed to the accident.
      (12)   An employee involved in an accident while on an out-of-town
assignment shall notify their supervisor as soon as possible, but no later than
two hours after the accident occurred. The supervisor shall notify the DER to
discuss possible drug/alcohol testing requirements.
   (L)   Random testing will be conducted as follows:
      (1)   All employees in HSAL positions will be subjected to random,
unannounced testing. The selection of employees shall be made by a
scientifically valid method of randomly generating an employee identifier from
the appropriate pool of safety-sensitive employees.
      (2)   The dates for administering unannounced testing of randomly
selected employees shall be spread reasonably throughout the calendar year.
      (3)   Employees in HSAL positions will have random alcohol testing done
at a rate of at least 10% annually and drug testing at a rate of at least 20%
annually.
      (4)   Each covered employee shall be in a pool from which the random
selection is made. Each covered employee in the pool shall have an equal chance
of selection each time the selections are made. Employees will remain in the
pool and subject to selection regardless of whether the employee has been
previously tested. There is no discretion on the part of management in the
selection and notification of the individuals who are to be tested.
      (5)   Random tests can be conducted at any time during an employee's
shift.
      (6)   Employees are required to immediately proceed to the collection
site upon notification of their random selection.
   (M)   Return-to-duty testing will be done as follows:
      (1)   All employees who previously tested positive on a drug or alcohol
test or refused a test, must test negative for drugs, alcohol (negative being
below 0.02 BAC), or both and be evaluated and released by the substance abuse
professional (SAP) or Employee Assistance Program (EAP) before returning to
work.
      (2)   For an initial positive drug test, a return-to-duty drug test is
required, and an alcohol test is allowed. For an initial positive alcohol test,
a return-to-duty alcohol test is required, and a drug test is allowed.
      (3)   Following the initial assessment, the SAP/EAP will recommend a
course of rehabilitation unique to the individual. The SAP/EAP will recommend
the return-to-duty test only when the employee has successfully completed the
treatment requirement and is known to be drug and alcohol-free and there are no
undue concerns for public safety.
   (N)   Employees will be required to undergo frequent, unannounced drug and
alcohol follow-up testing upon return to duty. The follow-up testing will be
performed for a period of one to five years after the successful completion of
treatment, with a minimum of six tests to be performed the first year. The
frequency and duration of the follow-up tests (beyond the minimums) will be
determined by the involved SAP/EAP reflecting their assessment of the
employee's unique situation and recovery progress. Follow-up testing should be
frequent enough to deter and/or detect a relapse. Follow-up testing is
separate, and in addition to, the random testing, postaccident testing,
reasonable suspicion testing, and return-to-duty testing.
   (O)   Refusal to submit to a drug/alcohol test, as listed in (C)(26), shall
be considered a positive test result and a direct act of insubordination, and
shall result in termination.
   (P)   Consequences of a positive alcohol or drug test include:
      (1)   As soon as practicable after receiving notice of a verified
positive drug test result, a confirmed alcohol test result, or a test refusal,
the DER will contact the employee's supervisor to have the employee removed
from the workplace.
      (2)   The employee shall be referred to an SAP/EAP for an assessment. The
SAP/EAP will evaluate each employee to determine what assistance, if any, the
employee needs in resolving problems associated with prohibited drug use or
alcohol misuse.
      (3)   A positive drug and/or alcohol test will also result in
disciplinary action as specified herein.
      (4)   For the first instance of a verified positive test from a sample
submitted as the result of a random test, reasonable suspicion test, return-to-
duty test, post-accident test, or followup drug/alcohol test (0.04 BAC or
greater), disciplinary action against the employee shall include:
         (a)   Mandatory referral to an SAP/EAP for assessment, formulation of
a treatment plan, and execution of a return-to-work agreement. Failure to
execute or remain compliant with the return-to-work agreement shall result in
termination from employment.
         (b)   Compliance with the return-to-work agreement means that the
employee has submitted to a drug/alcohol test immediately prior to returning to
work; the result of that test is negative; in the judgment of the SAP/EAP the
employee is cooperating with their SAP/EAP-recommended treatment program; and
the employee has agreed to periodic unannounced follow-up testing as defined in
division (R) of this section.
         (c)   Refusal to submit to a periodic unannounced follow-up drug/
alcohol test shall be considered a direct act of insubordination and shall
result in termination,
         (d)   A periodic unannounced follow-up drug/alcohol test which results
in a verified positive shall result in termination from employment.
      (5)   The second instance of a verified positive drug or alcohol (0.04
BAC or greater) test result including a sample submitted under the random test,
reasonable suspicion test, return-to-duty test, post-accident test, or follow-
up drug/alcohol test provisions herein shall result in termination from
employment.
      (6)   A confirmed alcohol test result of 0.02 to 0.039 BAC shall result
in the removal of the employee from duty for eight hours, or the remainder of
the workday, whichever is longer. The employee will not be allowed to return to
duty for their next shift until they submit to an alcohol test with a result of
less than 0.02 BAC. If the employee has an alcohol test result of 0.02 to 0.039
two or more times within a six-month period, the employee will be removed from
duty and referred to the SAP/EAP for assessment and treatment consistent with
this policy.
      (7)   The cost of any treatment or rehabilitation services will be paid
directly by the employee or their insurance provider. The employee will be
permitted to take accrued sick leave or administrative leave to participate in
the SAP/EAP-prescribed treatment program. If the employee has insufficient
accrued leave, the employee shall be placed on leave without pay until the SAP/
EAP has determined that the employee has successfully completed the required
treatment program and releases them to return to duty. Any leave taken, either
paid or unpaid, shall be considered leave taken under the city's Paid and
Unpaid Leave Policies.
   (Q)   When there are no specific, contemporaneous, articulable objective
facts that indicate current drug or alcohol use, but the employee (who is not
already a participant in a treatment program) admits the abuse of alcohol or
other substances to a supervisor in their chain of command, the employee shall
be referred to the SAP for an assessment. The city shall place the employee on
administrative leave in accordance with the provisions set forth under division
(T) of this section. Testing in this circumstance would be performed under the
direct authority of the DER. Since the employee self-referred to management,
testing under this circumstance would not be considered a violation of this
policy or a positive test result under federal authority. However, self-
referral does not exempt the employee from testing under federal authority as
specified in divisions (M) through (R) or the associated consequences as
specified in divisions (S) or (T) of this section.
   (R)   Alcoholism and controlled substance addiction are recognized as
diseases responsive to proper treatment. The city offers an Employee Assistance
Program (EAP) provided for employees as part of their health care coverage. For
information on the Employee Assistance Program the employee should contact
their supervisor or the City Clerk or go to www.maxwelleap.com, username “klc”,
and password “employee” or the employee may call (888) 550-5535.
      (1)   All employees of the city are strongly encouraged to voluntarily
contact the EAP if they believe they, or an immediate family member, might have
a problem with drug or alcohol abuse. An employee who feels that they have
developed an addiction or dependence on alcohol or drugs may be entitled to
other benefits in addition to the EAP herein described. The decision to seek
such benefits or not is the sole responsibility of the employee. All
information concerning the use of the medical insurance plan for this purpose
will be treated as confidential medical information. Employees who seek
treatment or counseling for substance abuse problems may be eligible for leave
pursuant to the city's leave policies.
      (2)   If an employee has been identified by an SAP as needing assistance
in resolving problems associated with alcohol or controlled substances, the
employee will be subject to follow-up testing as prescribed elsewhere in this
policy. The SAP shall be either a licensed physician, certified psychologist,
social worker, employee assistance professional, or addiction counselor.
      (3)   Employees who voluntarily report a substance abuse problem, prior
to being required to take a controlled substance or alcohol test as defined in
this policy, will not be subject to disciplinary action if they voluntarily and
conscientiously seek substance abuse assistance and agree to a treatment plan.
However, such an employee must understand that if the problem is not corrected
and satisfactory job performance is not maintained, they will be subject to
disciplinary action up to, and including, termination of employment. Failure to
seek such assistance, or to abide by the terms of the treatment plan, shall be
grounds for termination. Upon voluntarily reporting a substance abuse problem,
the employee will be required to sign a Return-to-Work Agreement that will
further define conditions of continued employment.
      (4)   The city's EAP provides services to employees regardless of race,
color, religion, national origin, disability, sex, or age, or any other state
or federal-protected class.
   (S)   The city is dedicated to assuring fair and equitable application of
this Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace Policy. Therefore, supervisors/managers
are required to use and apply all aspects of this policy in an unbiased and
impartial manner. Any supervisor/manager who knowingly disregards the
requirements of this policy, or who is found to deliberately misuse the policy
towards subordinates, shall be subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination.
   (T)   Confidentiality of drug testing procedures and records are as follows:
      (1)   Drug/alcohol testing records shall be maintained by the City Clerk,
and except as provided below, or by law, the results of any drug/alcohol test
shall not be disclosed without express written consent of the tested employee.
      (2)   The employee, upon written request, is entitled to obtain copies of
any records pertaining to their use of prohibited drugs or misuse of alcohol,
including any drug or alcohol testing records. Employees have the right to gain
access to any pertinent records, such as equipment calibration records and
records of laboratory certifications. Employees may not have access to SAP
referrals and follow-up testing plans.
      (3)   Records of a verified positive drug/alcohol test result shall be
released to the department director and personnel manager on a need-to-know
basis.
      (4)   Records will be released to a subsequent employer only upon receipt
of a written request from the employee.
      (5)   Records of an employee's drug/alcohol tests shall be released to
the adjudicator in a grievance, lawsuit, or other proceeding initiated by, or
on behalf of, the tested individual arising from the results of the drug/
alcohol test. The records will be released to the decision maker in the
proceeding. The information will only be released with the binding stipulation
from the decision maker to make it available only to parties in the proceeding.
      (6)   Records will be released to the National Transportation Safety
Board during an accident investigation.
      (7)   Records will be released, if requested, by a federal, state, or
local safety agency with regulatory authority over the city or the employee.
   (U)   Any questions regarding this policy or any other aspect of the
substance abuse policy should be directed to the DER.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.067 FRATERNIZATION.
   (A)   While the city encourages amicable relationships between employees, it
recognizes that involvement in a romantic relationship may compromise, or
create a perception that compromises, an employee's ability to perform their
job. Any involvement of a romantic nature between employees within the city
requires notification to a department director or the Mayor.
   (B)   Any concerns an employee has in a dating relationship with a co-worker
may be brought to the attention of the City Commission or any supervisor in
which the employee feels comfortable. The supervisor and employee should follow
the guidance in the Sexual and Nonsexual Harassment Policy and/or the Workplace
Violence Policy within §§
37.061 and
37.062 of this chapter. In addition, employees may use the city provided
Employee Assistance Program for any relationship issues.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.068 CHILDREN IN THE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The presence of children in the workplace with the employee parent
during the employee's workday is only allowed in certain circumstances and as
approved by the employee's supervisor and the City Commission. This policy is
established to avoid disruptions in job duties of the employee and co-workers,
reduce property liability, and help maintain the company's professional work
environment.
   (B)   If bringing a child to work with the employee is unavoidable, the
employee must contact their supervisor as soon as possible to discuss the
situation and obtain permission to have the child accompany the employee while
working. Factors the supervisors will consider are the age of the child; how
long the child needs to be present; the work environment in the employee's
area; and any possible disruption to the employee's and co-workers' work.
Consideration will not be given to allowing a child with an illness to come to
work with the employee.
   (C)   A child brought to the workplace in unavoidable situations will be the
responsibility of the employee and must be always accompanied and be under the
direct supervision of the employee/parent.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.069 MEDIA COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor serves as the chief media spokesperson for the city with the
exception of the Police Department where the Police Chief will serve as the
spokesperson. All media requests shall be directed to the Mayor, who is
responsible for determining the city staff person most appropriate to make a
response. Under certain circumstances, staff members may be directed to respond
to a media request when matters touch upon their special areas of expertise.
Any employee directly contacted, or approached, by the media for comments on
issues related to the city shall contact the Mayor prior to making a response.
   (B)   To guarantee quality and appropriate formatting, all city
communications shall originate from the Mayor. One to two weeks notice to
generate releases is standard. The Mayor will work with city staff and members
on releases pertaining to “breaking news” as needed.
   (C)   To guarantee consistent quality and branding, all city publications
shall originate, or be approved, by the Mayor. Ideally, at least a one-week
notice should be given for the creation of a small publication or template. For
large publications, a pre-design review of the project will occur between the
requesting employee and the Mayor.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.070 HOURS OF OPERATION AND WORK SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Normal office hours are Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. until 5:00
p.m. Office hours may be modified due to evening meetings and other similar
functions, or when weather, or other circumstances, require.
   (B)   The work schedule of the individual employee will be established by
the employee's department director, or immediate supervisor, in a manner that
is consistent with the needs of the city. The work schedule may be modified on
a temporary basis when necessitated by workload or other work-related factors.
A department director or supervisor that establishes a permanent work schedule
for an employee deviating significantly from normal department hours shall
provide notification and details regarding the modified work schedule to the
city clerk. The City Clerk will then notify the Mayor.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.071 TARDINESS.
   (A)   Employees are to report to work on time and be punctual for
appointments and meetings. Furthermore, work is to be completed at the time it
is due. Frequent tardiness can result in disciplinary action or termination.
   (B)   All employees are expected to arrive at their designated workspace
prior to the start of their work shift. An employee that arrives after the
appointed time is considered tardy. Employees who are tardy two times or less
within a 30-day period will be counseled by their department director or
supervisor. Employees who are tardy more than two times within a 30-day period
will be subject to the disciplinary policy.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.072 MEALS AND REST PERIODS.
   (A)   Unless other arrangements are made with the employee's department
director or supervisor, all employees, other than police officers, are expected
to take an unpaid lunch period of one hour each workday which shall occur no
sooner than three hours after the employee begins their work shift and no later
than five hours after the employee begins their work shift. However, an
employee and their department director or supervisor may agree to make a
reasonable alternative schedule for a meal period on a temporary basis and any
such change should be noted in writing.
   (B)   Sworn police officers and dispatchers shall remain on duty subject to
call during meal breaks. All other employees generally are not on call during
meal breaks unless directed otherwise by their supervisor,
   (C)   Employees are encouraged to schedule personal breaks as workflow
allows. The total time taken for personal breaks should not exceed ten minutes
during each four hours worked. No reduction in compensation shall be made for
time spent on personal breaks taken consistent with this policy for either
exempt, or nonexempt, employees.
   (D)   For up to one year after a child's birth, any employee who is
breastfeeding her child will be provided two reasonable break times
(approximately 20 minutes) to express breast milk for her baby. This time will
be paid but is not in addition to the breaks provided in division (C). If an
employee needs more than 20 minutes, that time will be allowed, but it will not
be paid. The city will provide a room which is separate from the bathrooms, is
shielded from view by the public and coworkers, and is cleaned and sanitized
regularly. Employees storing milk in the refrigerator assume all responsibility
for the safety of the milk and the risk of harm for any reason, including
improper storage, refrigeration, and tampering. Nursing mothers wishing to use
this room must request/reserve the room by contacting their supervisor.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.073 INCLEMENT WEATHER AND EMERGENCY CLOSURES.
   (A)   Emergency closings will be authorized by the Mayor. When changes in
hours of operations are necessary due to emergency situations such as inclement
weather or loss of utilities, the City Clerk or other appointed person will
notify supervisors. Employees will be notified by their supervisors.
   (B)   If the city system remains closed for an entire day because of an
emergency, all employees scheduled to work that day will be paid for the number
of hours they were scheduled to work. Employees able to telecommute will be
expected to work during regular working hours. If an emergency closing occurs
during hours the city is open, employees will be paid for any remaining hours
scheduled. However, emergency hours not actually worked will not be included in
overtime calculations. Further, if an employee is off on vacation or sick
leave, they will not receive credit for the hours that the city was closed.
   (C)   If the city opens late or closes early due to an emergency, scheduled
staff who report to work will receive credit for their regularly scheduled
hours for that day. However, emergency hours will not be included in overtime
calculations.
   (D)   When the city is open, but extreme weather conditions make it
impossible for an employee to arrive at the regular time, or leaves work early,
reasonable allowances for lateness will be made. If the employee cannot report
for work within a reasonable time or they opt to leave work early, they must
charge the day to vacation, or leave without pay, equal to their regular work
schedule hours for that day. The department director or supervisor should be
notified as soon as possible.
   (E)   Certain essential services are required to be maintained during any
closing. The employees involved in these essential services are excused from
work only with the specific authorization of their supervisors, regardless of
radio or other announcements. Department directors or supervisors should
clarify beforehand who the essential employees are during emergencies, what
their obligations are, and what procedures will be used to let them know
whether they will be needed to work. Failure to report to work during
emergencies by required essential services employees may be cause for
disciplinary action.
   (F)   The City Clerk will notify the public and will post closing signs in
the event the city opens late or closes early.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.074 STANDARDS OF PERFORMANCE AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   Every employee must remember that the city is a tax-supported entity
and the citizens of the city paying those taxes should receive the best
possible quality and highest standard of service possible. Public employees
should act in a professional manner, use good judgment and courtesy at all
times and should avoid any type of behavior that would even appear illegal or
unethical. Employees should carry out their work efficiently, honestly, and
with the intention of keeping good relationships with the public. Each employee
is a representative of the city, both internally with coworkers and externally
with citizens, contractors, business associates, affiliates, and others. As a
representative of the city, each employee is expected to act professionally,
honestly, ethically, courteously, and with integrity in all business
transactions and interpersonal interactions while at work or in any performance
of an activity on behalf of the city.
   (B)   The city expects all employees to conduct themselves in a
professional, mature, and lawful manner. Employees must comply with established
rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and directives. Failure to do so will
result in disciplinary action. To avoid misunderstandings about the types of
conduct that are considered unacceptable, a non-exhaustive list of specific
infractions is provided below, purely for informational purposes, as a general
guide for employees:
      (1)   Unexcused tardiness;
      (2)   Unexcused and excessive absenteeism;
      (3)   Failure to perform an assigned task, meet a deadline, or otherwise
follow an instruction or directive;
      (4)   Insubordination or willful refusal to follow instructions, rules,
regulations, policies, or to accept assignments;
      (5)   Misuse of leave time;
      (6)   Intentional or unintentional violations of the policies and
procedures in this chapter;
      (7)   Inability to perform duties or requirements of the job because of
the loss of necessary licenses or other requirements;
      (8)   Discourteous behavior toward the public or other employees;
      (9)   Theft or embezzlement of city property or assets;
      (10)   Use, possession, sale, or transfer of illegal drugs, or being
under the influence of illegal drugs in any manner that may impair the
employee's ability to perform assigned duties or that may adversely affect the
city's business or reputation;
      (11)   Personal behavior, whether on or off-duty, which discredits the
city and is likely to damage the public reputation of the city;
      (12)   Falsification of records;
      (13)   Invasion of another's privacy;
      (14)   Assault or fighting;
      (15)   Conviction of a serious criminal offense which jeopardizes or is
injurious to the city's property and security, its public reputation, or the
interests of other employees, or which is incompatible with the due and
faithful discharge of duties and responsibilities;
      (16)   Sexual or nonsexual harassment; or
      (17)   Horseplay or pranks which threaten the safety and security of the
workplace or are offensive to other employees.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.075 DRESS CODE AND HYGIENE.
   (A)   As representatives of the city during work hours, it is important for
employees to present a professional impression to citizens, vendors, coworkers,
and others. Clothing should be neat, clean, in good taste, and should not
constitute a safety hazard. Employees are expected to maintain the highest
standards of personal cleanliness and appearance during work hours and when
representing the city outside of normal work hours.
   (B)   The minimum standard of dress for city office employees is “business
casual,” although there are occasions or situations, such as meetings, that
require “business professional” attire. From time to time, these standards may
be relaxed by management to allow employees to wear more casual clothing.
Examples of such times include cleanup days, severely inclement weather, or
when more casual clothing may be appropriate for the work to be done.
   (C)   For all employees, professional appearance also means that the city
expects employees to maintain good hygiene and grooming while working. Facial
hair is permitted if it is neat and well-trimmed. Rings through the nose,
eyebrow, tongue, or body parts (other than the earlobe) visible to the public
may not be worn while working. All tattoos shall not be offensive in nature.
“Offensive” shall generally mean anything of a sexual nature or anything that
impugns another's race, creed, religion, color, or sexual preference.
   (D)   An employee may be granted an exception to this policy by their
department director, supervisor, or the Mayor for certain medical conditions or
for a sincerely held religious belief or other grounds protected by federal,
state or local laws. Reasonable accommodation will be granted unless it causes
undue hardship on the city.
   (E)   An employee wearing inappropriate attire will be required to leave
work to change into appropriate attire. An employee will not be compensated for
the time they are away from work to change into appropriate attire, and must
use vacation time, personal time or comp time for the time spent away from
work.
   (F)   An employee with questions regarding this policy should direct their
inquiries to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.076 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT FOR EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Outside employment is defined as any paid employment performed by an
employee in addition to employment with the city.
   (B)   Any employee desiring to perform outside employment shall first obtain
written approval on the Outside Employment Request Form for Employees Other
Than Police Officers (HR Form Seventeen), from the department director, subject
to the approval of the City Commission. Approval may be granted, provided that
such employment does not:
      (1)   Interfere with the performance of the employee's duties;
      (2)   Involve a conflict of interest or conflict with the employee's
duties;
      (3)   Involve the performance of duties which the employee should perform
as a part of employment with the city; or
      (4)   Occur during the employee's regular or assigned working hours
unless the employee is on vacation leave, compensatory leave, personal leave or
leave without pay. Employees on any form of sick leave, which includes workers'
compensation leave, may not work outside employment pursuant to division (D)
below.
   (C)   The employee shall make arrangements with the outside employer to be
relieved of duties in the event the employee is called for emergency service by
the city.
   (D)   An employee who is approved for sick leave, including workers'
compensation leave, or who is approved for limited duty, is prohibited from
engaging in secondary employment. Employees who engage in other employment or
are self-employed while on authorized leave of absence or light duty will be
terminated unless written authorization has been granted prior to commencement
of the leave of absence. The above limitations specifically do not apply to an
employee's use of vacation leave, compensatory leave, personal leave or
absences resulting from a temporary reduction in force.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.077 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT FOR POLICE OFFICERS.
   Police officers should follow the Department guidelines for secondary
employment adopted as a part of the overall Police Department operating
policies. Officers should contact the Police Chief for details on this
practice.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.078 UNIFORMS.
   (A)   The annual budget process shall determine the uniform policy of the
city.
   (B)   All employees who are authorized to wear uniforms provided by the city
shall wear the uniforms during all working hours. Uniforms provided by the city
shall be worn only to and from work, and while at work and, unless there is an
applicable exclusion, shall be considered taxable benefits and credited with
additional income for the amount of the uniform expenses for tax purposes for
each pay period.
   (C)   If the city provides “everyday apparel” in lieu of uniforms (e.g.,
blue jeans, civilian clothing for sworn police personnel, etc.), the actual
allowance or cost of apparel shall be considered taxable benefits and credited
with additional income for the amount of the apparel expenses for tax purposes
for each pay period.
   (D   The value of clothing provided by an employer to an employee must be
included as taxable income of the employee unless there is an applicable income
exclusion. Two possible income exclusions could apply when the employer
provides clothing:
      (1)   De minimis benefit, which is a benefit so small that accounting for
it would be unreasonable or administratively impracticable considering its
value and frequency pursuant to IRS code section 132(a)(4).
      (2)   Clothing not suitable for general wear.
   (E)   Anyone obtaining personal protective equipment (PPE) through the city
is required to wear the PPE whenever necessitated by work duties or conditions.
PPE shall not be considered taxable benefits.
   (F)   Police officers should also review the information in the Police
Department Policies and Procedures.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.079 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, TIME, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless de minimus or unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; and/or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that the use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.080 USE OF OFFICE AND MOBILE TELEPHONES.
   The office telephone system is provided and paid for by the city to
facilitate the conduct of its business. Extensive use of the city telephone
system or mobile phones for the personal business of employees interferes with
the efficient and effective conduct of the city's business. Employees shall not
use their cell phones for personal calls or texting during office hours.
Excessive use of the office telephone system, or mobile phones, or personal
mobile phones for personal calls, texting, or other personal messaging during
work hours may result in disciplinary action.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.081 MOBILE TELEPHONES AND COMMUNICATIONS DEVICES.
   In some instances, the use of a cell phone is essential to the ability of an
employee to meet the demands of their job within the city. In those instances,
the city may provide reimbursement to the employee for a portion of the cost of
the use of their personal mobile phone. Decisions regarding which employees are
eligible for reimbursement are made based on the employee's job functions made
by the Mayor and approved through the commission budget. Employees who have
been approved for a reimbursement from the city are subject to the following
requirements:
   (A)   Currently, the reimbursement will be the employee's portion of the
bill payable to the employee, not to exceed the actual amount paid by the
employee for their cell phone service.
   (B)   The reimbursement is made pursuant to an accountable plan for
reimbursement of business expenses. Therefore, it will not be considered income
and will not be subject to taxation. To qualify under the accountable plan, the
employee is required to provide documentation to the city as outlined in
division (C), below.
   (C)   Reimbursements will be made monthly. The eligible employee must
provide a copy of the first page of their cell phone bill to the city
reflecting the total amount paid in order to receive reimbursement.
   (D)   Employees who receive reimbursement are expected to be available by
phone, within a reasonable amount of time, whether during working hours or
outside of working hours. Nonexempt employees will be paid for any time worked
outside of the normal working hours when that time is not considered de
minimus.
   (E)   Employees receiving reimbursement are required to provide their cell
phone number to their supervisor and the City Clerk and maintain active service
for the life of the reimbursement. Failure to do so may subject the employee to
disciplinary action.
   (F)   The employee is responsible for the purchase of their own cell phone
and all cell phone service contracts are to be between the employee and the
service provider.
   (G)   All devices must be protected by a password. The user agrees to never
disclose their password to anyone. The password should be a minimum of four
characters. The device must also automatically lock after a period of
inactivity.
   (H)   Lost or stolen phones or other communication devices should be
reported to the City Clerk immediately.
   (I)   Since mobile telephones may contain locally stored data, they may be
subject to the Open Records Laws, and/or discovery in the event of litigation,
and as such there is no expectation of privacy. Each user is responsible and
accountable for the content and use of these tools. The employee must comply
with Open Records Laws, including archiving of data. For more information on
records retention requirements contact the City Clerk.
   (J)   The Mayor and the employee's supervisor are responsible for an annual
review of the need for a cell phone reimbursement, to determine if
reimbursements should be discontinued.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.082 VEHICLE USE.
   (A)   The operation of vehicles is necessary in conducting much of the
city's business. This policy establishes requirements governing the operation
of city-owned, leased, or rented vehicles and the operation of personal
vehicles while conducting business on behalf of the city. Department directors
are responsible for implementation and enforcement of this policy for all
vehicles and drivers assigned to their department.
   (B)   Employees operating the city-owned, leased, or rented vehicles, which
include special-use vehicles, such as construction and excavation equipment
designed to operate primarily off-road but driven on public roads to a job
site, and employees who are performing employment functions on behalf of the
city in a privately owned vehicle must meet and adhere to the following
requirements:
      (1)   The employee shall hold a valid driver's license.
      (2)   Operators of city vehicles will have held a valid driver license
for at least three years before being allowed to operate a city-owned vehicle.
      (3)   The employee shall not operate a city vehicle, or use a privately-
owned vehicle, in conducting business on behalf of the city while the
employee's license is under revocation or suspension.
      (4)   A valid driver's license must always be in the employee's
possession while operating a city-owned vehicle. In the case of commercially-
rated vehicles, the proper commercial driver's license for the vehicle's weight
and class must be valid, and in the driver's possession.
      (5)   Any employee who may operate a vehicle while performing employment
functions on behalf of the city may be subject to an annual Division of Motor
Vehicle Records Check and must sign the Driver's License Background Check
Release (HR Form Four). The city will use the Commonwealth of Kentucky's
individual driving record and corresponding point system to monitor the risks
associated with operating vehicles while in the city's employment.
         (a)   An accumulation of eight or more points in the previous 12-month
period or an accumulation of ten or more points in the previous 18-month period
shall be cause for disciplinary action up to, and including, suspension of city
driving privileges.
         (b)   The City Clerk shall advise the employee's department director
or supervisor and the City Commission when a driving record meets this
threshold.
         (c)   Problem drivers should be identified and, if possible, should be
enrolled in a defensive driving training course.
      (6)   Only city employees are authorized to operate city vehicles.
         (a)   Persons volunteering services to the city are considered
employees of the city for purposes of this policy and may operate city vehicles
when their duties require travel as long as such travel is under the approval
or direction of the department director and necessary in the course of
performing official city business.
         (b)   Employees of other public entities may operate city vehicles
under the specific approval of the department director as long as such
operation is essential in conducting city business. Department directors
granting permission for non-city employees to operate city vehicles are
responsible for ensuring that the driver is properly licensed, trained, and
qualified to operate the vehicle.
      (7)   Only persons being transported in connection with official city
business shall be passengers in any city vehicle.
      (8)   Intentional abuse, moving violations, reckless operation, or
negligent actions while operating any city vehicle may result in the suspension
of the employee's driving privileges and is grounds for further disciplinary
action.
      (9)   When cargo, materials, or tools are being transported, the driver
is responsible for assuring that all items are properly secured to prevent them
from shifting or falling from the vehicle or trailer.
      (10)   No person shall be allowed to ride on running boards, fenders,
hoods, tailgates, beds, or other locations on a vehicle not designed or
approved by the vehicle manufacturer for passenger seating.
      (11)   Alcoholic beverages shall not be transported or placed in any city
vehicle.
      (12)   An employee who operates a city vehicle, regardless of frequency,
is responsible for the proper care and operation of that vehicle.
      (13)   Pre-operation inspection for passenger sedans, light-duty pick-up
trucks, and all other vehicles.
         (a)   At least once per day, the operator of these vehicles is
responsible for ensuring that all vehicle safety equipment including
headlights, turn signals, brake lights, and horn are functioning properly.
         (b)   The operator is also responsible for ensuring that fluid levels
including brake, transmission, engine oil, and coolant are properly maintained.
         (c)   Any defects which will affect the safe operation of the vehicle
will be promptly reported to the driver's supervisor. No employee may operate a
city-owned vehicle in an unsafe condition. Any vehicle damage, which is beyond
normal wear and tear, must be documented and reported to the employee's
supervisor.
      (14)   A qualified operator must be positioned at the vehicle's controls
any time it is running unless otherwise approved by the manufacturer.
      (15)   No vehicle shall be left unattended without first stopping the
motor, locking the ignition, removing the key, setting the parking brake, and
locking the doors, or otherwise securing the vehicle to prevent theft,
vandalism, and unintentional movement.
      (16)   Vehicles responding to emergency situations, or those parked on
job sites, shall be parked with due regard to safety and security
considerations.
      (17)   City vehicles not taken home shall be secured in city parking lots
during non-duty hours. The keys shall be removed, and the vehicle locked. When
it is necessary to leave a vehicle at a job site overnight, the operator shall
ensure the vehicle is parked and secured in an area which provides reasonable
security.
      (18)   When using a trailer, dolly, or other equipment, the following
shall apply:
         (a)   The driver shall ensure that the trailer hitch is securely
latched, adequate for the load being towed, properly installed on the towing
vehicle, and that safety chains are properly attached.
         (b)   The driver shall ensure that the trailer, or other towed
equipment, is supplied with proper lighting including brake lights, turn
signals, and running lights.
         (c)   Any vehicle having a load which extends more than four feet
beyond the rear shall have the end of the load marked with a red flag which
shall be at least 12 inches square.
      (19)   Backing guidelines for large vehicle and construction equipment
are as follows:
         (a)   Whenever possible, the driver will position the vehicle to avoid
the necessity of backing.
         (b)   The vehicle shall be parked so that the first move is forward
when leaving. This means backing the vehicle into a parking space or pulling
through a parking space.
         (c)   These methods do not apply to diagonal parking spaces.
         (d)   Before entering the vehicle, the driver shall perform a walk
around to check clearances prior to entering the vehicle.
         (e)   The driver shall not back the vehicle unless such movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
         (f)   The driver shall never back a vehicle when windows or mirrors
are covered with snow, ice, frost, or other substance that prevents visually
clearing the driver’s path.
         (g)   The driver shall back slowly, even during emergency situations.
         (h)   The driver shall be familiar with the vehicle's blind spots to
reduce the area that may not be visible in side mirrors.
         (i)   When available, a spotter shall be used to back all vehicles.
Before and during backing movements, the driver and spotter should check blind
zones for objects not visible in rear-view mirrors, watch both sides for
adequate clearance, and limit speed to allow a full stop.
         (j)   If a spotter is not available, cones shall be placed in the
front and rear of the vehicle after parking and picked up prior to leaving to
ensure a full walk around is completed.
         (k)   This policy applies to all vehicles, including those fitted with
backup cameras. These cameras can be an effective tool for preventing backing
accidents, but such equipment should be used in addition to the techniques
outlined in this policy.
      (20)   The employee shall obey all city, county, state, and federal laws
and regulations.
      (21)   The employee shall not operate a motor vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol or while being under the influence of illegal or
controlled substances.
      (22)   When it is necessary for a city employee to use a rental vehicle
for city business, the employee shall use a city-approved leasing agency. The
city shall purchase optional comprehensive/ collision damage coverage through
the leasing agency at the time the vehicle is rented.
      (23)   The employee and all occupants shall always wear safety belts/
safety restraints and all occupants of city vehicles must properly wear seat
belts/safety restraints any time the vehicle is in motion.
         (a)   The operator of construction, excavation, and other off-road
equipment shall use the occupant restraint system any time the vehicle is in
operation.
         (b)   Employees are prohibited from removing, deactivating, modifying,
or otherwise defeating any occupant restraint system installed by the
manufacturer unless approved or instructed by the manufacturer.
      (24)   No employee shall operate a vehicle while normal vision is
obstructed.
   (C)   All employees operating a vehicle on city business may undergo annual
defensive driver training.
      (1)   The Kentucky League of Cities (KLC) offers two defensive driving
courses for employee’s convenience. Each of these courses has four modules.
Each module can easily be viewed in under 30 minutes.
      (2)   One course per year shall be used for training purposes.
      (3)   The defensive driving courses can be found on the KLC Insurance
portal under the Risk and Safety tab.
   (D)   The city will not provide coverage for liability or physical damage to
an employee's privately-owned vehicle unless agreed to as a condition for a
specific hire. Employees who use personally owned vehicles for city business
should confirm that their personal auto insurance policy provides coverage for
this use.
      (1)   Employees who use their personal vehicle while conducting city
business shall maintain at least a minimum of liability coverage in an amount
not less than $100,000 per occurrence/$300,000 annual aggregate, and property
damage coverage in an amount not less than $100,000 per occurrence.
      (2)   Annual verification of minimum coverage will be requested.
   (E)   Any employee who receives a citation or towing charge while operating
a city vehicle shall notify the City Clerk, in writing within 48 hours of
receipt of the citation or towing charge.
   (F)   An employee who operates a city motor vehicle is required to notify
the City Clerk, immediately, of any motor vehicle violation conviction entered
against the employee that involves driving while under the influence, or which
has resulted, or may result, in the suspension or revocation of the employee's
motor vehicle license.
   (G)   If the operation of a city vehicle is a condition of employment, and
an employee is unable to operate a motor vehicle due to the suspension or
revocation of the employee's license, the employee must immediately inform the
City Clerk of the suspension or revocation.
      (1)   Any DUI conviction, or refusal to submit to a lawful roadside
sobriety test, shall result in disciplinary action up to and including
suspension of city driving privileges.
      (2)   An employee whose driver's license has been suspended for any
reason shall not be allowed to operate any over-the-road city vehicles.
      (3)   Employees who have obtained temporary driving permits or hardship
licenses shall not be permitted to operate over-the-road city, or privately-
owned vehicles, in the performance of official city duties.
      (4)   Temporary or permanent suspension of city driving privileges shall
be considered loss of a job required prerequisite for employees whose position
requires operation of an over-the-road vehicle.
      (5)   Additionally, the employee must, at their own expense, arrange for
and provide transportation so the employee is able to continue to fulfill the
employee's job requirements.
   (H)   An employee who has been determined to be “at fault” in two or more
accidents within a 24-month period while driving a city or privately-owned
vehicle in the performance of official city business shall be subject to
disciplinary action up to, and including, suspension of city driving
privileges.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.083 ASSIGNED CITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   When economically feasible and in the best interest of the city,
employees may be assigned a city vehicle which they will keep and maintain for
business and personal use during the time of assignment. A full-time employee
with a position that requires business driving, who holds a valid driver's
license and has a good driving record as determined by the City Commission, as
well as the department director, may be eligible for the assignment of a city
vehicle under any of the following conditions:
      (1)   The employee's position requires the employee to be subject to 24-
hour on call and available to the city.
      (2)   To prepare for a post-disaster response in order to plan an
effective and efficient recovery.
      (3)   The employee's position must be specified by the City Commission as
a position to which assignment of a city vehicle is considered part of the
employee's compensation package.
      (4)   Duty-vehicles designed, or equipped, for high-priority response,
where response time will be enhanced by allowing the vehicle to remain in
custody of individual employee. Employees assigned to duty-vehicles which are
taken home must be available to respond upon request on a 24-hour basis any
time the employee has custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   An employee assigned a city vehicle on a permanent basis is subject to
the following requirements:
      (1)   Commuter rule. Unless specifically exempted by federal regulations,
take-home city vehicles shall be a taxable benefit. Employees who drive city-
owned vehicles to and from work shall be credited with additional gross income
for tax purposes in the amount of $1.50 per day for each day the vehicle is
driven to work and $1.50 per day for each day the vehicle is driven from work.
For example: an employee who drives a city-owned vehicle to and from work ten
times during the biweekly pay period shall be credited with an additional
income of $30 for tax purposes for the pay period. Personal use other than
commuting is prohibited and grounds for discipline up to, and including,
termination. Employees who drive qualified non-personal-use vehicles (For
example: marked police vehicles) are exempt from the taxable benefit under the
federal regulations; however, personal use for travel outside of the officer's
jurisdiction is prohibited and grounds for disciplinary action.
      (2)   Gas expense. An employee shall submit receipts for refueling
assigned vehicles in accordance with the Employee Expense Reports and
Reimbursement Policy in §
37.106 of this chapter.
      (3)   Maintenance, inspection and repairs. The employee is responsible
for ensuring that routine maintenance on the vehicle, as specified in the
owner's manual, and as the city may specify in writing, is performed at the
intervals specified in such documents. Scheduled maintenance should include at
a minimum: oil change, check fluid levels, check tire condition, and check all
lights and warning devices. All maintenance should be documented and each
vehicle in the fleet should have a separate file to store all maintenance
records. Service, other than routine maintenance, must be performed at the
service center as directed by the city. Information on the service center can
be obtained from the City Clerk.
      (4)   The city will arrange for license plates, registration
certificates, and insurance cards. The city pays local property taxes. The
employee should not receive a tax bill.
      (5)   An assigned vehicle shall be turned in no later than the last day
of employment. A terminated employee shall not continue use of the assigned
vehicle under any circumstances.
   (C)   In operating an assigned-city vehicle:
      (1)   The employee shall not permit, or give permission for, any other
person to drive the city vehicle, other than as outlined in the Vehicle Use
Policy in §
37.082 of this chapter.
      (2)   The employee shall follow the Vehicle Use Policy as set forth in §
37.082 of this chapter.
      (3)   The employee shall report accidents in accordance with the Vehicle
Accident Reporting Policy in §
37.085 of this chapter.
      (4)   City vehicles taken home overnight shall be locked and secured in
the responsible employee's driveway or other designated parking space which is
near the employee's residence.
   (D)   Vehicles in the city's car fleet will be replaced at the city's
discretion. In addition, the city may, at its discretion, revoke a vehicle
assignment, at any time, or otherwise change the position, or work requirements
of the employee.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.084 DISTRACTED DRIVING.
   (A)   Employees shall not use cellular telephones, or any other mobile
electronic devices, while operating a motor vehicle to read or respond to
emails and text messages, or accessing the internet, unless an exception under
division (C) applies. Employees are prohibited from wearing a headset or
earphones over or in both ears. This policy is in effect while operating a
city-owned vehicle or operating a privately-owned vehicle while conducting city
business.
   (B)   Furthermore, employees, unless an exception under division (C)
applies, should consider:
      (1)   Turning off wireless phones before starting the car.
      (2)   Pulling over to a safe place and putting the vehicle in “park” if a
call must be made or received while on the road.
      (3)   Modifying voicemail greeting to indicate the employee is
unavailable to answer calls or return messages while driving.
      (4)   Informing clients, associates, and others of this policy and an
explanation on why calls may not be returned immediately.
      (5)   Pulling over to a safe place and putting the vehicle in “park” to
make adjustments to a global positioning system or other navigational device.
   (C)   Pursuant to KRS 189.292, this policy shall not apply to an emergency
or public safety vehicle, when the use of a personal communication device is an
essential function of the vehicle operator's official duties.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.085 VEHICLE ACCIDENT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An employee involved in a vehicle accident with a vehicle owned,
leased, or rented by the city or involved in a vehicle accident in a privately-
owned automobile while on city business shall follow these rules:
      (1)   Summon medical care for injured individuals.
      (2)   Notify appropriate law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   Notify the employee's department director.
      (4)   Do not admit responsibility, or fault, or offer settlements.
      (5)   Cooperate with law enforcement authorities and emergency medical
personnel.
      (6)   Obtain the names and addresses of any witnesses and involved
parties.
      (7)   Submit to a drug and alcohol test as described in the Drug- and
Alcohol-Free Workplace Policy in §
37.066 of this chapter.
   (B)   The employee's department director or supervisor shall be responsible
for initiating any departmental investigation, ensuring the completion of all
required city reports, and recommending any follow-up preventative actions. In
addition, the department director or supervisor shall notify the Mayor and city
clerk of any injuries sustained by a city employee in accordance with the
Reporting Work-Related Accidents Policy in §
37.064 of this chapter. The City Clerk shall immediately notify the city's
insurance carrier.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.086 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACCEPTABLE USE.
   (A)   The city's electronic resources are provided for the transaction of
official business of the city. This policy is intended to establish rules
applicable to all city personnel to ensure the city's electronic resources are
appropriately utilized and protected.
   (B)   All data that is stored on city-owned media is city property. To
properly maintain and manage this data, the management may exercise at any time
its right to inspect, record, and/or remove any, or all, information contained
in computer databases, files, and email records, and to take appropriate action
should unauthorized, or improper, usage be discovered.
   (C)   All employees and officers who use computer equipment and software in
the performance of their duties shall take all reasonable and necessary
precautions to prevent damage to the equipment and software. To ensure the
city's computer system and software integrity, all employees and officers are
prohibited from connecting any hardware, or loading any software, onto the
system, or any individual component of the system, unless the hardware, or
software, has been specifically approved in advance by the city's contracted
informational technology contractor.
   (D)   Access to the data stored on the city's computer systems shall be
limited to city employees and officers who require such access for the
performance of their assigned duties. Employees or officers may not attempt to
use passwords to gain access to coworkers' email or computer files without
appropriate authorization.
   (E)   No employee or officer shall make copies of data or software programs
owned by the city for their own personal use, or for any purpose not required
by the employee's assigned duties. If a software licensing agreement authorizes
the reproduction of software, and an employee desires to obtain a copy of the
software for installation on a single home computer to assist the employee in
the performance of assigned duties outside of regular office hours, the
employee shall seek specific approval from the city's contracted informational
technology contractor before copying the software.
   (F)   All city business email communications shall be conducted through the
city email accounts. No city business conducted by an officer or employee of
the city shall occur through a personal email account. Any city business
conducted outside of the city email account will be subject to open records and
it is the responsibility of the employee or officer to retain those messages in
accordance with the Open Records Act and the Kentucky Department of Library and
Archives Schedule and the Email and Communications Retention Schedule, as set
out in the Appendix   to the Employee Handbook. Questions regarding any
recordkeeping requirements should be directed to the City Clerk.
   (G)   Employees or officers should have no expectation of privacy associated
with information they transmit through, or store in, electronic mail programs
owned by the city, even those on a cell phone. All messages and data processed
electronically over the city-owned computers and communications systems are
city property and may be subject to the Open Records Act.
   (H)   In order to maintain the integrity and security of the city computer
resources, employees or officers are strictly prohibited from downloading any
software, unless prior approval is granted by the employee's supervisor after
consultation with the city's contracted informational technology contractor.
Excessive use of the internet for personal reasons during work hours may be
grounds for disciplinary action.
   (I)   Internet usage is intended for job-related activities; however,
incidental, and occasional brief personal use is permitted within reasonable
limits.
   (J)   All internet data that is composed, transmitted, or received via the
city's computer communications systems is part of the official city records,
and as such, is subject to disclosure to law enforcement or open records
requests. Consequently, employees should always ensure that the business
information contained in internet email messages and other transmissions is
accurate, appropriate, ethical, and lawful.
   (K)   The equipment, services, and technology provided to access the
internet always remain the city property. As such, the city reserves the right
to monitor internet traffic, and retrieve and read any data composed, sent, or
received through city online connections and stored in the city computer
systems.
   (L)   The electronic mail, and other information systems including facsimile
machines, of the city are not to be used in a way that may be disruptive,
offensive to others, or harmful to morale.
   (M)   There is to be no display or transmission of: sexually explicit
images; messages; or cartoons; or any transmission or use of email
communications that contain: ethnic slurs; racial epithets; or anything that
may be construed as harassment or disparagement of others based on their race,
national origin, ethnicity, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability, or
religious or political beliefs or any other protected class.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.087 CITY SOCIAL MEDIA.
   (A)   The city may utilize social media and social network sites to further
communicate with citizens.
   (B)   The city's social media sites' purpose is to disseminate information
from the city and to encourage discussion of city issues, operations, and
services by providing members of the public the opportunity to participate
through various platforms.
   (C)   For purposes of this policy, “social media” is understood to be
content created by individuals using the internet. Examples of social media
include Facebook, blogs, Instagram, RSS, YouTube, Twitter, Linkedln, and
Flickr.
   (D)   For purposes of this policy, “comments” include information; articles;
pictures; videos; or any other form of communicative content posted on the
city's social media site.
   (E)   The establishment and use by any city department of city social media
sites are subject to approval by the City Commission or their designee.
   (F)   City social media sites should clearly state they are maintained by
the city and that they follow the city's Social Media Policy. All social media
sites shall clearly indicate that any content posted or submitted for posting
is subject to public disclosure.
   (G)   The site should adhere to all applicable state, federal, and local
laws, regulations, and policies including city information technology and
records management policies.
   (H)   The designated coordinator of the social media site will monitor
content on the social media site to ensure adherence to both the city's Social
Media Policy and the interest and goals of the city. The city reserves the
right to restrict, or remove, any content that is deemed in violation of this
Social Media Policy or any applicable law. Any content removed, based on these
guidelines, must be retained by the designated coordinator as determined by the
Email and Communications Retention Policy in Appendix C to the Employee
Handbook, including the time, date, and identity of the poster, when available.
   (I)   The city's website is https://cityofmiddletownky.org and will remain
the city's primary and predominant internet presence. All city social media
sites shall have the government's contact information prominently displayed.
Whenever possible, the city's social media sites should link back to the city's
official website for forms, documents, online services, and other information
necessary to conduct business with the city.
   (J)   All social networking coordinators shall be trained regarding the
terms of the Social Media Policy, including their responsibilities to review
content submitted for posting to ensure compliance with the policy. When
possible, the city's IT security policies shall apply to all social networking
sites and articles.
   (K)   Employees representing the city via the city's social media sites must
always conduct themselves as a representative of the city and in accordance
with all city policies. Employees, as governmental employees, must be mindful
that they should refrain from posting content on social media which reflects
negatively on their employer or disparages any protected class or group.
   (L)   The city will post the following on any social media page in a
conspicuous location:
   “Comments placed on the social media site are subject to the following
guidelines:
      (1)   The city, as a public entity, must abide by certain standards to
serve all its constituents in a civil and unbiased manner.
      (2)   The city's social media sites prohibit the posting of content and/
or comments containing any of the following:
         (a)   Comments not topically related to the site or blog article being
commented upon;
         (b)   Profane language or content;
         (c)   Content that promotes, fosters, or perpetuates discrimination
based on race, creed, color, age, religion, gender, marital status, status with
regard to public assistance, national origin, physical or mental disability,
sexual orientation, or any other protected class status;
         (d)   Sexual content or links to sexual content;
         (e)   Solicitations of commerce;
         (f)   Conduct, or encouragement, of illegal activity;
         (g)   Threats of violence or to public safety;
         (h)   Information that may tend to compromise the safety or security
of the public;
         (i)   Comments posted by automatic software programs; or
         (j)   Content that violates the legal ownership interest of any other
party.
         (k)   The city reserves the right to deny access to the city's social
media sites for any individual who violates the city's Social Media Policy, at
any time and without prior notice.”
   (M)   Departments within the city shall monitor their social media sites for
comments requesting responses from the city and for comments in violation of
this policy.
   (N)   When a city employee responds to a comment in their city employee
capacity, the employee's name and title shall be made available, and the
employee shall not share personal information about themselves or other city
employees.
   (O)   All comments posted to any city social media site are bound by the
Social Media's Statement of Rights and Responsibilities, and the city reserves
the right to report any violation to the social media site with the intent
being that the social media site takes appropriate and reasonable responsive
action.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.088 EMPLOYEE GUIDELINES FOR PARTICIPATING IN SOCIAL MEDIA.
   (A)   The city understands that social networking and internet services have
become a common form of communication in the workplace and among citizens.
Employees that choose to participate in social media as a city employee should
adhere to the following guidelines:
      (1)   City policies, rules, regulations, and standards of conduct apply
to employees that engage in social networking activities while conducting city
business. Use of your city email address and communicating in your official
capacity will constitute conducting city business.
      (2)   City employees shall notify their supervisor and the City
Commission if they intend to create a social media account or service to
conduct city business.
      (3)   Departments have the option of allowing employees to participate in
existing social media sites as part of their job duties. Department directors
or supervisor may allow, or disallow, employee participation in any social
media activities in their departments.
      (4)   The protection of employee privacy, and the privacy of citizens, by
following all privacy protection laws (e.g., HIPAA) and the protection of
sensitive and confidential city information.
      (5)   Employees shall follow all copyright laws, public records laws,
retention laws, fair use, financial disclosure laws, and any other laws that
might apply to the city or the employee’s department.
      (6)   Employees shall not cite vendors, suppliers, clients, citizens,
coworkers, or other stakeholders without their approval.
      (7)   Employees shall make it clear that they are speaking for themselves
and not on behalf of the city. If an employee publishes content on any website
outside of the city, and it has something to do with the work the employee does
or is on a subject associated with the city, the employee must use a disclaimer
such as: “The postings on this site are my own and don't necessarily represent
the City of Middletown's positions or opinions.”
      (8)   An employee shall not use ethnic slurs, profanity, personal
insults, or engage in any conduct that would not be acceptable in the city's
workplace. Comments or topics that may be considered objectionable or
inflammatory shall be avoided.
      (9)   If an employee identifies himself or herself as a city employee,
the employee must ensure that their profile and related content is consistent
with how they wish to present themself to colleagues, citizens, and
stakeholders.
      (10)   Any comments, or opposing views, must be framed in a positive
manner. The employee must add value to the city through interaction by
providing worthwhile information and perspective.
   (B)   Guidelines for participating in social media by police officers are
contained within the Police Department Policy and Procedure Manual.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.089 EMPLOYEE PRIVACY EXPECTATIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding issues addressed specifically in other provisions of
this chapter, employees can expect a reasonable degree of privacy in the
contents of their work areas, including desks, cabinets, closets, and similar
locations. However, when an employee is absent, or otherwise unavailable, the
city may seek out, for a legitimate business purpose, material believed to be
contained in those work areas.
   (B)   Supervisors may examine work-area contents or listen to employee
communications of their subordinate employees for the purpose of ascertaining,
or evaluating, the quality and/or quantity of an employee's work.
   (C)   Employees cannot expect any degree of privacy in any documents,
records, files, or city-owned devices, including, but not limited to,
computers, cell phones, and tablets. Documents, records, files, and city-owned
devices can be reviewed and searched at any time, for any reason, including
preparation of a response to an open records request.
   (D)   The contents of work areas may be subject to search where there is
reasonable cause to believe there is a violation of these policies or evidence
of a violation of any local, state, or federal law. Searches of work areas for
this reason may only be conducted with the consent and involvement of the City
Commission.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.090 SMOKE-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   The city has a strict smoke-free policy in all city buildings to
provide a safe and healthy environment for all employees and customers.
   (B)   Smoking, use of e-cigarettes or chewing tobacco is not allowed:
      (1)   In any city building;
      (2)   In any city vehicle; or
      (3)   In any other place prohibited by law or city ordinance.
   (C)   Designated smoking areas outside and away from entrances to city
buildings will be specified for employees.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.091 CUSTOMER RELATIONS.
   (A)   The city requires city employees to provide excellent customer service
to the public and to their coworkers. The same quality service is provided to
all customers regardless of age, race, nationality, socioeconomic and
educational background, physical condition, etc. The city's success and long-
range plans are built on this commitment to provide excellent customer service
by:
      (1)   Revising policies to value and support customer service;
      (2)   Creating customer service training;
      (3)   Establishing plans for promoting customer communication; and
      (4)   Developing metrics for customer satisfaction.
   (B)   All other city policies should be interpreted in relation to the
customer service principles outlined in the Appendix of the Employee Handbook.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.092 OPEN RECORDS POLICY.
   (A)   KRS 61.870 to KRS 61.884, the Open Records Act establishes a right of
access to public records. The General Assembly recognized that the free and
open examination of public records is in the public interest. All public
records, whether they are stored in a computer or on paper, must be open for
inspection, unless the records are exempted by one or more of the exemptions
found in the Act. An employee may inspect any nonexempt public record
regardless of the employee’s identity.
   (B)   For more information on Open Records contact the City Clerk or refer
to the city's website.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.093 CROSS-TRAINING.
   Employees should be cross trained whenever possible to allow each employee
to be able to fill in for each other when required.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.094 SUGGESTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Employees are encouraged to submit suggestions that could allow the
city to operate more efficiently and effectively.
   (B)   Information or notification of safety concerns or imminent hazards to
employees or to the public should be reported directly to the supervisor
responsible for the location or the work process. Anonymity as to this
reporting cannot be guaranteed.
   (C)   Suggestions should be submitted to the City Clerk, who shall forward
them to the City Commission for approval or disapproval. Employees who submit
suggestions that are approved may receive recognition at the City Commission
meeting following implementation of the suggestion.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
EMPLOYEE FINANCIAL PRACTICES, REPORTING AND REIMBURSEMENT
§ 37.105 PURPOSE OF THE EMPLOYEE FINANCIAL PRACTICES, REPORTING, AND
REIMBURSEMENT POLICIES.
   The purpose of the policies contained in this subchapter is to outline for
employees all allowable business-related expenses and provide instruction for
the handling of purchases and employee reimbursement. Employees should also be
guided by the other policies contained in this chapter in making any financial
transaction on behalf of the city, or in incurring any business-related
expenses for the city, including the Code of Ethics and work conduct policies.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.106 EMPLOYEE EXPENSE REPORTS AND REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Business expenses may be charged to the city on a credit card issued
to the employee in accordance with Use of City Credit Cards Policy in §
37.107 of this chapter or paid from the employee's private funds and reimbursed
upon the submission of the documentation required under this policy.
   (B)   An employee requesting reimbursement for business-related expenses
made on behalf of the city shall complete the Expense Report (HR Form Twelve).
The employee shall submit expenses and supporting documentation in the
following manner:
      (1)   Expenses shall be submitted on at least a calendar-month basis.
      (2)   Requests for reimbursement in expense reports shall be accompanied
by an itemized receipt and all supporting documentation. The employee shall
provide the business purpose, the date, location, amount, and the persons being
covered by the purchase on the receipt or in the supporting documentation.
Failure to provide a receipt and other applicable supporting documentation will
result in denial of the reimbursement, unless the expense report is accompanied
by an approved Missing Receipt Affidavit (HR Form Thirteen). Credit card
statements will not be accepted as evidence of a receipt.
      (3)   All expense reports must be approved and signed by the employee's
supervisor or department director with the responsibility of budgeting and
reviewing business expense information for the employee's department. The City
Clerk, or their designer, shall review all expense reports prior to
reimbursement for the purpose of determining compliance with city policies. The
City Commission expense reports shall be submitted to the City Clerk and
approved by the City Commission, in accordance with the city budget.
   (C)   An employee who submits a fraudulent receipt or falsifies their
expense report will lose reimbursement privileges, will be terminated, or other
appropriate disciplinary action will be taken.
   (D)   The city may withhold reimbursement while it investigates or verifies
expense report reimbursement requests.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.107 USE OF A CITY CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   The city has authorized revolving city credit cards to be issued to
certain officers and employees recommended and approved by the City Commission.
City credit cards are for use in making operational business purchases,
purchases related to meetings, and other legitimate business expenses as set
forth in this policy.
      (1)   Operational expenses are those expenses necessary for the running
of the city. Examples include, but are not limited to, office supplies and
equipment, other office-related expenses, computer supplies, and any other non-
travel related expenses.
      (2)   Meeting-related expenses include, but are not limited to, group
meals, hotel meeting rooms, prepaid airfare, prepaid hotel accommodations,
prepaid business car rental, prepaid conference and meeting registrations,
prepaid expenses for meetings, and unanticipated event or travel needs.
      (3)   These examples are not intended to limit credit card use for other
legitimate business expenses.
   (B)   Employees issued a city credit card for operational or meeting-related
expenses will be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Only legitimate business and operational-related purchases may be
charged on a city credit card.
      (2)   The city credit cards shall not be used for personal expenses of
any kind. If an expense is determined to be personal in nature, the expense
must be reimbursed immediately. The City Commission, upon review, may require
reimbursement of a personal expense outside of this time frame.
      (3)   All monthly credit card statements shall be reviewed by the person
named on the card and their immediate supervisor, both of whom shall sign each
page of the statement as evidence that they accept the identified expenses as
legitimate business expenses. In addition, the statements shall be reviewed by
the City Treasurer, or their designee, to determine compliance with city
policies.
      (4)   Itemized receipts of each transaction made using a city credit card
must be submitted to the City Treasurer promptly for approval. The receipts
shall provide details on the business purpose, date, location, amount, and
persons covered by the purchase and shall bear evidence of supervisor approval
on their face. Credit card statements will not be accepted as evidence of a
receipt.
   (C)   The city will review the policy regarding credit card usage and credit
card limits on an as- needed basis, but no less than every three years.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.108 EMPLOYEE TRAVEL EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Prior to any travel in the interest of the city, all city officers and
employees will receive approval from the City Commission and/or their immediate
supervisor, based on the city budget. An employee will submit a Travel,
Meeting, and Training Request (HR Form Ten) which will be reviewed and approved
by the employee's department director/immediate supervisor and the City
Commission. Any travel that has not been approved in the city operating or
travel budget will be approved by amendment of the budget by the City
Commission.
   (B)   Registration for conferences and meetings will be performed by the
City Treasurer or other staff as may be designated. Before registration is
complete, the employee will provide the City Treasurer with an approved copy of
the Travel, Meeting and Training Request (HR Form Ten). Employees should make
an effort to provide this information in a timely manner so that the lowest
possible registration fees may be obtained.
   (C)   Reservations for overnight lodging will be made by the City Treasurer
unless otherwise approved by the City Commission. Before reservations are made,
the employee will provide an approved copy of the Travel, Meeting, and Training
Request (HR Form Ten) to the City Treasurer.
      (1)   Reservations will be made in such a manner to secure the best
available rate for safe, clean, and secure accommodations that are as close to
the meeting location as possible. Every attempt should be made to stay in the
hotel hosting the conference or meeting and to pay the conference room rate.
      (2)   In-room movies, room service, mini-bar, use of hotel gym, spa or
massage services, sauna facilities, or other additions to room bills are not
reimbursable. Only usual and customary expenses are eligible for reimbursement.
      (3)   A copy of the hotel folio or receipt showing proof of payment will
be submitted by the employee for expense reimbursement.
   (D)   Employees may use a city-owned vehicle or their own vehicle for
business travel on behalf of the city. Employees will adhere to the following
process related to mileage reimbursement. When an employee traveling on behalf
of the city uses their personal vehicle, the employee will be reimbursed for
mileage. An employee will be reimbursed at the mileage rate allowed by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky for business expense deductions under the following
guidelines:
      (1)   An employee will not be reimbursed for transportation or commuting
between the employee's home and their permanent workplace.
      (2)   Mileage will not be reimbursed for attendance of a city function or
event held outside of the workplace unless the employee has been assigned to
work at the event.
      (3)   When an employee does not report to their permanent workplace, or
makes business trips before or after reporting to their permanent workplace,
the allowable mileage is:
         (a)   The lesser of the mileage from the employee's residence to the
first stop or from the office to the first stop;
         (b)   All mileage between points visited on city business during the
day; and
         (c)   The lesser of the mileage from the last stop to the employee's
residence or from the last stop to the city office.
      (4)   To receive mileage reimbursement, the employee will state on their
expense report the total number of miles traveled on city business. The
employee will include the starting points and ending destination for each trip
along with a description of the purpose of the travel. Any travel of a personal
nature while on city business will be deducted from the total miles traveled.
      (5)   Parking violations and traffic or other moving motor violations are
not reimbursable expenses.
      (6)   If the employee is involved in an auto accident while driving their
own privately-owned vehicle on city business, they will follow the Vehicle
Accident Reporting Requirements Policy outlined in §
37.085 of this chapter.
   (E)   Except for reimbursable expenses related to official city business as
provided in §
37.109 of this chapter, employees will only be provided reimbursement for meals
involving overnight travel. Meal and incidental reimbursement amounts will be
determined using the Commonwealth of Kentucky per diem schedule for each meal
as established by the Commonwealth of Kentucky Finance and Administration
Cabinet at https://finance.ky.gov/office-of-the-controller/office-of-statewide-
accounting-services/Pages/state-employee-travel.aspx. The applicable rates are
established and updated at least annually and are available from the City
Treasurer upon request.
      (1)   No receipts are required for per diem meal reimbursement and an
employee will receive meal reimbursements in accordance with the following
guidelines:
         (a)   For overnight travel, an employee is responsible for identifying
the city of travel and the associated Commonwealth of Kentucky per diem rates
for each meal. The per diem amounts include the cost of the meal and gratuity
and no additional amounts will be reimbursed. An employee will be reimbursed
the per diem amounts for breakfast, lunch, dinner for full days of travel
involving overnight stay. An employee will receive per diem reimbursement for
only certain meals on both the first and the last day of travel, depending on
the employee's departure and return times. The employee will use the per diems
applicable to the city of primary destination. The city of primary destination
is the city the employee is traveling to on days of departure and the city the
employee is traveling from on days of return. Breakfast: authorized travel is
6:30 a.m. through 9 a.m.;
         (b)   Lunch: authorized travel is 11 a.m. through 2 p.m.; or
         (c)   Dinner: authorized travel is 5 p.m. through 9 p.m.
      (2)   The city will not reimburse a meal per diem allowance for any meal
that is included in a registration fee for a conference or training, when the
employee's meal is covered under a group meal receipt submitted under division
(E)(4) below of this section, or when a receipt has been submitted for
reimbursement as an expense related to official city business as provided in
this subchapter. Conference or training functions where finger foods or hors
d'oeuvres are served and continental breakfasts provided by hotels or
conference sponsors do not constitute meals and the employee is entitled to
claim the per diem for that meal.
      (3)   If the employee has attended a conference or training in
conjunction with the travel, the employee is required to submit a detailed
program agenda for per diem meal reimbursement.
      (4)   Employees may submit and receive reimbursement for a group meal
receipt for more than one employee if the dining establishment is unable or
unwilling to provide individual checks, provided that the total cost of the
meal does not exceed the total allowable per diems for all the participating
employees. An employee submitting a group meal receipt will follow the
procedures required in §
37.106 for reimbursement on an expense report or the Use of a City Credit Card
Policy in §
37,107 when using a city credit card for documentation of the expense and will
additionally state on the receipt that the receipt is for a group meal and the
name of each participating employee. Employees covered by a group meal receipt
will not be eligible for per diem reimbursement for that meal.
   (F)   The city will reimburse employees for the following expenses relating
to parking:
      (1)   An employee will be reimbursed for parking at hotels or overnight
lodging accommodations for city-related meetings or in conjunction with
business travel for the city. Employees will only be reimbursed for standard
hotel parking rates unless the option is not available. Employees electing for
valet parking will only be reimbursed up to an amount equal to the standard
parking rates applicable at the hotel.
      (2)   All other business-related parking fees are reimbursable upon the
submission of a valid receipt in accordance with the Employee Expense Reports
and Reimbursement Policy in §
37.106.
   (G)   Employees should evaluate their individual circumstances and select
the safest and most economical alternative when traveling to and from all
destinations. Employees may be reimbursed for taxis, ride-sharing services,
shuttles, public transportation, and rapid transit used for business-related
transportation. Employees may be reimbursed for the payment of gratuities for
taxi drivers up to a maximum of 20% of the total fare. The employees will
submit a receipt in accordance with the Employee Reports and Reimbursement
Policy in §
37.106 of this chapter.
   (H)   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this policy, gratuities
related to employee travel will not be a reimbursable expense.
   (I)   The city will not reimburse or pay for the travel of an employee's
family member or other guest. When a family member or other guest joins an
employee on business-related travel, the employee or the guest is responsible
for paying all travel costs, including airfare and meals.
   (J)   Except for the travel-related expenses outlined in this policy, all
other travel-related expenses are deemed non-reimbursable unless approved in
writing by the City Commission and accounted for in the city budget. An
employee will submit their travel-related expenses for reimbursement on an
Expense Report (HR Form Twelve) within 15 days after the end of the month in
which the travel expenses were incurred.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.109 REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES RELATED TO OFFICIAL CITY BUSINESS.
   (A)   City officers or employees receiving prior approval from the City
Commission will be reimbursed for reasonable business expenses incurred while
conducting official city business. Examples of official city business include,
but are not limited to, situations where individuals present are representing
the city or if the individual's attendance has been requested by the city. The
individual seeking reimbursement shall be responsible for using good judgment
to ensure the expenses incurred are budgetarily sound and are compatible with
the goodwill of the city.
   (B)   Mileage for city business will be reimbursed quarterly.
   (C)   Receipts detailing the business purpose, date, location, amount, and
persons present must be submitted with the expense report as provided under the
Employee Expense Reports and Reimbursement Policy in §
37.106 of this chapter or, if a city credit card is used, as provided under the
Use of a City Credit Card Policy in §
37.107 of this chapter. This information shall be written on the front or back
of the receipt and on the expense report.
   (D)   In the event the receipt is for reimbursement of a meal, an itemized
receipt shall be submitted, and the gratuity shall not exceed 20% of the cost.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.110 ALCOHOL REIMBURSEMENT POLICY.
   No reimbursement will be made for alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.111 CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for the city
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office or was hired as an
employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office or is hired as an employee, the prohibition in division (A)
above shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply or
other specific reasons; and/or
         (d)   The finding is made part of the official record of the governing
body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall be enforced under KRS 61.252.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.112 CONTRACT REVIEW AND EXECUTION.
   (A)   All written contracts, or contract renewals, shall be reviewed by the
City Attorney, or their designee, before execution.
   (B)   Approval from the City Commission in accordance with the city budget
and specifications is required prior to requesting the City Attorney to draft a
contract on behalf of the city.
   (C)   All contracts made on behalf of the city shall be signed by the Mayor
after approval by the City Commission.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.113 CHECK HANDLING BY CITY EMPLOYEES.
   Any check, or other form of payment, received by a city employee shall be
immediately presented to the City Treasurer, or their designee, for deposit.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATION
§ 37.125 EMPLOYMENT TYPES AND CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, the terms below shall have the following
meanings:
      (1)   FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE is an employee who is normally scheduled and
expected to work a minimum of 30 hours each workweek on a regularly scheduled
basis.
      (2)   PART-TIME EMPLOYEE is an` employee who is normally scheduled and
expected to work less than 30 hours in a single workweek and for retirement
purposes averages less than 100 hours a month in a calendar or fiscal year.
      (3)   SEASONAL EMPLOYEE is an employee hired in a position that is
temporary in duration, and whose position coincides with a particular season,
or seasons, of the year and which may recur regularly from year to year. The
time period of employment shall not exceed nine months.
      (4)   TEMPORARY EMPLOYEE is an employee who is hired and works for a
definite period of time. Generally, a temporary employee will be employed for a
period of time not to exceed nine months and the position is not renewable.
   (B)   Employees occupying full-time positions will be entitled to benefits
provided by the city. All other categories of employment shall not be entitled
to benefits, except those required by state or federal law, unless recommended
and approved by the City Commission.
   (C)   The city designates all employment positions as either “exempt” or
“nonexempt” based on applicable federal and state laws and regulations. The
classifications are for the purpose of determining whether overtime
compensation is due to the employee for hours worked in excess of 40 in a
single workweek. Classifications of positions are reviewed by the City
Commission, in consultation with the City Attorney, at the time of position
creation or modification and on an annual basis to ensure legal compliance. As
used in this chapter, the terms below shall be given the following meanings
unless specifically stated otherwise:
      (1)    EXEMPT EMPLOYEE is a salaried employee in a position whose duties
and responsibilities render the employee exempt from the overtime requirements
of the Fair Labor Standards Act and Kentucky wage and hour laws. An exempt
employee is not eligible for additional compensation for working in excess of
40 hours in a workweek under the city's Overtime Compensation Policy
established in §
37.128 of this chapter.
      (2)   NONEXEMPT EMPLOYEE is an employee in a position whose duties and
responsibilities require overtime compensation for any time worked in excess of
40 hours in any workweek pursuant to the Fair Labor Standards Act and Kentucky
wage and hour laws. The additional overtime compensation for nonexempt
employees is calculated under the city's Overtime Compensation Policy
established in §
37.128 of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.126 FISCAL YEAR.
   The city's fiscal year is the period from July 1 to June 30.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.127 OFFICIAL WORKWEEK.
   (A)   The official workweek for all departments, except the Police
Department, begins on Monday at midnight and ends on Friday at 11:59 p.m. The
Police Department official workweek ends on Sunday.
   (B)   The official workweek may be changed at any time, but not to avoid
overtime requirements.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.128 OVERTIME.
   (A)   OVERTIME means any time actually worked by a nonexempt employee in
excess of 40 hours in any single workweek. In addition, if a nonexempt employee
works seven days in any one workweek, and works over 40 hours in those seven
days, all hours worked on the seventh are at time-and-a-half. For purposes of
this section, workweek is defined in §
37.127 of this chapter.
   (B)   Time off with pay such as holiday hours, vacation, and sick leave
hours are not included in the calculations for overtime purposes.
   (C)   The city is required under the Fair Labor Standards Act and Kentucky
wage and hour laws to pay overtime wages to a nonexempt employee if the
employee works more than 40 hours in a single workweek. Overtime wages shall be
calculated at a rate of one-and-one-half times the employee's regular hourly
rate of pay.
   (D)   A nonexempt employee must be authorized orally or in writing by the
employee's immediate supervisor prior to the employee's performance of any work
that would result in overtime. The employee shall verify that their time record
accurately reflects any overtime worked as required in §
37.135 of this chapter. Any employee who works overtime without prior
authorization, or fails to properly report overtime work, shall be subject to
disciplinary action.
   (E)   The city and the employee's immediate supervisor or department
director may require any nonexempt employee to take time off during any
workweek that the employee has worked or will work more than 40 hours to
minimize overtime costs.
   (F)   Exempt employees are not eligible for overtime compensation.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.129 COMPENSATORY TIME.
   Pursuant to KRS 337.285, the city gives nonexempt city employees the option
of receiving compensatory time off (“comp time”) instead of overtime pay for
overtime hours worked.
   (A)   All comp time off must be given at the rate of one-and-a-half hours
for each hour of overtime worked (hours worked over 40 hours within the
workweek as defined by the city in §
37.127 of this chapter.
   (B)   The maximum number of compensatory hours that may be accrued is 480
for city employees engaged in a public safety, emergency response, or seasonal
activity. For employees engaged in all other work, 240 hours are allowed. Any
hours over these maximums will be paid to the employee in overtime compensation
at the regular rate earned by the employee at the time the employee receives
the payment.
   (C)   To request the accrual of compensatory time, employees must provide a
written request and must be approved by the department director and/or
immediate supervisor in advance of any accrual on the Agreement to Accept
Compensatory Time Off in Lieu of Overtime Pay (HR Form Six).
   (D)   Requests for time off using accrued comp time must be done on a prior
approval basis by the submission of the Absentee Request (HR Form Seven). The
request must have the approval of the employee's department director and will
be scheduled to meet the needs of the employees, the city, and the public.
   (E)   Upon termination of employment, all unused accrued compensatory time
will be paid at a rate of compensation not less than the average rate received
by the employee during the last three years or the final regular rate received
by the employee, whichever is higher.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.130 WORK PERFORMED BY NON EXEMPT EMPLOYEES OUTSIDE OF NORMAL WORKING
HOURS.
   (A)   A nonexempt employee shall not perform any work outside of their
normal work hours unless the work has been approved in advance by their
supervisor. In addition to all time the employee is required to be on the work
premises, or at an assigned work location, “work” also means any effort,
whether physical or mental, exerted by the employee for the benefit of the city
including, but not limited to, travel time to and from an off-site work
location and any time spent by the employee using the phone, email, text
messaging, or other electronic communications for the purposes of the city,
regardless of the time of day or the location where such effort is expended.
   (B)   Under both federal and state law, a nonexempt employee shall be
compensated for all work that they perform for the city. Any work performed,
including work performed outside of normal working hours, by a nonexempt
employee in a single workweek that results in overtime, or the accrual of
compensatory time shall be governed by the Compensatory Time Policy and the
Overtime Policy within this chapter. All nonexempt employees shall keep track
of any time spent working outside of their normal working hours and report that
time in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   A nonexempt employee that has the service of an electronic device paid
for by the city as allowed by the Mobile Telephones and Communication Devices
Policy within this chapter, with the explicit expectation for it to be used
outside of normal working hours on an ongoing basis, shall communicate each
workweek with their supervisor if the inclusion of such time will result, or
appears it could result, in overtime, so that appropriate action may be taken
to avoid overtime, if possible.
   (D)   No employee shall be required, encouraged, or expected to work “off
the clock,” which is defined as not tracking or reporting time worked. If any
employee has been required to work “off the clock,” they shall report it
immediately to the Mayor. Any supervisor that has required, or is attempting to
require, “off the clock” work shall be subject to disciplinary action.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.131 ON-CALL EMPLOYEES.
   (A) As a condition of employment, employees shall agree to report, within a
reasonable period, if requested during a period of emergency. If an employee is
called to report to work either after normal working hours, or before normal
working hours, the employee shall be paid at the regular rate of pay for actual
time worked.
   (B)   Employees who are on call must adhere to all city policies, including
the Vehicle Use and the Drug and Alcohol-Free Policies.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.132 BASE SALARY AND SALARY ADJUSTMENT.
   The base salary for each employee is determined in accordance with the pay
and classification ordinance created by the City Commission. The City
Commission shall be responsible for administering, evaluating, and establishing
compensation for all employees. The city employee compensation program shall be
operated under the following conditions:
   (A)   In its effort to ensure fair pay for all its employees, the city
periodically adjusts base salaries and the salary ranges under its pay and
classification ordinance based upon professional market studies and pay
analysis. The city may make annual market, or cost of living, adjustments to
the compensation of employees depending upon the availability of funds in the
city budget.
   (B)   In addition to the pay analysis, other factors for establishing
employee pay under the compensation program include, among other things, the
skill and effort necessary for efficient and effective job performance; the
quality and quantity of actual job performance; the degree of responsibility
such performance demands; the conditions under which the job is performed; the
employee’s experience; length of employment; the employee’s educational and
professional achievements, including licensure and certifications; and
commensurate pay for similar jobs in the marketplace.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.133 PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS.
   (A)   The city will make all legally required deductions from an employee’s
gross pay in accordance with applicable legal requirements, including:
      (1)   Federal and state income taxes;
      (2)   Social Security (FICA) taxes; and
      (3)   Deductions required by wage garnishment or child support orders.
   (B)   The city may also deduct from an employee’s pay their portion of
insurance premiums and voluntary contributions.
   (C)   Employees may request voluntary deductions be made from their gross
pay, such as contributions to optional retirement plans. The employee shall
obtain the appropriate form to request voluntary deductions from the City
Treasurer.
   (D)   When the city must rely on information provided by the employee in
order to make any legally required deduction, it is the sole responsibility of
the employee to provide accurate and timely information to the city.
   (E)   In accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act, the city prohibits
improper deductions from the pay of exempt employees and will reimburse
employees for any improper deduction. When an exempt employee has exhausted all
paid leave, the city may deduct for absences of one or more full days for leave
related to sickness, disability, unpaid disciplinary suspensions, or for other
personal reasons. In addition, the city may make either full- or partial-day
deductions from the pay of an exempt employee during the first or the last week
of employment when only part of the week is worked by the employee. Any exempt
employee who believes that an improper pay deduction has been made shall
immediately file a written complaint with the City Treasurer setting forth the
dates, amounts, reasons, and any other information for the pay deduction. The
City Treasurer, along with the City Commission, shall take immediate action to
investigate the issue, and if found to be an improper deduction, shall cause
the employee to be compensated for the improper deduction within two pay
periods from the date the written complaint was filed.
   (F)   No other deductions will be made.
   (G)   All deductions from an employee’s pay will be listed on their pay
stub. If an employee has questions about any deductions from their pay or if
they believe improper deductions have been made from their pay, they must
report their concern to the City Treasurer immediately.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.134 DIRECT DEPOSIT.
   The city has a weekly pay period for all employees. The net earnings for
each pay period will be deposited directly in the employee’s account at the
financial institution of the employee’s choice. The City Treasurer can furnish
details on the requirements of direct deposit.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.135 TIME RECORDS.
   (A)   Time records will be kept on all nonexempt employees to facilitate the
city's compliance with overtime pay requirements. The time record will reflect
a single pay period consisting of one workweek. Time must be logged as the
total number of hours actually worked each day, excluding meal periods. Any
vacation, sick, compensatory leave time, or other paid leave time used by the
employee must be recorded on the time record. Time records must be completed
and submitted to the employee’s supervisor no later than the Thursday morning
immediately following the end of the pay period. Supervisors shall review and
approve or disapprove time records in a timely manner.
   (B)   Except for the department director or immediate supervisor of the
employee, all employees are forbidden from entering any information on another
employee’s time record. An employee shall not falsify information on their own
time record. Employees found to have violated this policy will be subject to
discipline, up to, and including, discharge. Any errors discovered in an
employee's time record shall be reported immediately to the City Treasurer, who
will determine the manner and method of correcting legitimate errors.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.136 UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION INSURANCE.
   Employees may be eligible for unemployment benefits upon termination of
service with the city. Unemployment rights, benefits, and eligibility are
governed by state law and can be explained by the state unemployment office.
Unemployment compensation insurance premiums are paid for entirely by the city.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
HEALTH, RETIREMENT, AND OTHER BENEFITS
§ 37.150 LIMITATIONS OF COVERAGE.
   All insurance benefit coverages stated in the City of Middletown Employee
Handbook are subject to plan document restrictions, if applicable.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023; Ord. 07-13-2023-A, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 37.151 HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (A)   All full-time employees cost are eligible for a health reimbursement
account for themselves and their dependents. The effective date of coverage
will be the first day of the month following the first day of employment.
   (B)   The city may provide coverage for employees and their dependents up to
a maximum amount, as determined by the city, based on the statewide average in
the Kentucky League of Cities Wage and Salary Survey of Health Insurance
Premium Costs and reflected in the annual budget. Employee shall submit request
for payment on the last Thursday of each month. Specific information regarding
health insurance plans available to employees should be obtained from the City
Clerk. Elected city officials may participate in the city's health insurance
plans.
   (C)   The city complies with state continuation coverage and any additional
amendments designed to provide employees and eligible dependents with the
opportunity to continue health insurance coverage at group rates, where the
coverage would otherwise cease, such as upon termination of employment, death
of the employee, divorce, or a child ceases to be a qualified beneficiary. The
premium for this continuation coverage shall be the sole responsibility of the
employee or dependent, unless otherwise provided for by law. Coverage is not
automatic and employees and/or their eligible dependents must make an
affirmative election before coverage will begin. More detailed information
regarding the continuation of health insurance coverage under state
continuation coverage may be obtained by going to: https://insurance.ky.gov/
ppc/Documents/statecontin uationcoverage012612.pdf.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023; Ord. 07-13-2023-A, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 37.152 DENTAL INSURANCE.
   All full-time employees, and elected city officials, may be eligible for
dental insurance, for themselves and their dependents. Specific information
about the city's dental insurance plan is available from the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023; Ord. 07-13-2023-A, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 37.153 VISION INSURANCE.
   All full-time employees and elected city officials may be eligible for
vision insurance, for themselves and their dependents, Specific information
about the city’s vision insurance plan is available from the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023; Ord. 07-13-2023-A, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 37.154 LIFE INSURANCE.
   All full-time employees may be eligible for life insurance coverage. Life
insurance will be in the amount approved by the City Commission as reflected in
the annual budget. Specific information regarding life insurance is available
from the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.155 OTHER OPTIONAL BENEFITS.
   (A)   All full-time employees may participate in other optional benefit
plans. Participation in these benefits is voluntary and the cost of the premium
shall be paid by the employee. Benefits are subject to change, but may include:
      Simple IRS Account for Retirement
   (B)   Specific information about all optional benefits plans is available
from the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023; Ord. 07-13-2023-A, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 37.156 EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The city will provide confidential and voluntary assistance through
its employee assistance program (EAP) to all employees and their family members
who may be faced with dynamic challenges of financial concerns, legal issues,
alcohol or drug problems, relationship problems, illness of a family member,
emotional worries, childcare problems, etc. For the welfare of the employees as
well as effective business operations, the city encourages its employees to
take advantage of this valuable benefit of employment with the city. Employees
and their family members can refer themselves to the EAP. The program may be
reached 24 hours a day on weekdays and weekends. For information on the
Employee Assistance Program employees should contact their supervisor or the
City Clerk or go to www.maxwelleap.com , user name “klc”, and password
“employee” or they may call (888) 550-5535.
   (B)   EAP counselors are available to meet with employees or family members
to assess a problem and develop a plan for resolution. The counselors may
suggest a referral to an outside resource, such as a therapist, agency,
physician, treatment facility, or other professional that would be appropriate
to assist in resolving the problem or situation. Where an employee may need
information, a referral or suggestion may be given over the telephone. There is
no charge for employees or their families to use the EAP.
   (C)   The EAP counselors will make every effort to coordinate referral for
ongoing treatment with the employee’s health insurance coverage and their
ability to pay for the ongoing treatment. Any time needed for illness-related
appointments made by the EAP requires use of sick, vacation, or personal time
on the same basis that it is granted for other health issues.
   (D)   When an employee’s job performance or attendance is unsatisfactory, or
there appears to be signs of other problems during the workday, the supervisor
should counsel the employee in consultation with the City Clerk, or designee,
with an end toward resolving the situation. If the employee appears to be
unwilling or unable to correct the situation, the employee may be referred to
the EAP to assist in the resolution of the problem. Depending on the situation,
the employee may accept or refuse participation in the EAP. However, there may
be situations where continued employment with the city may be contingent upon
the employee calling the EAP for assistance.
   (E)   Participation in the EAP does not jeopardize job security or
promotional opportunities. However, it does not excuse the employee from
following the city policies and procedures, or meeting required standards for
satisfactory job performance except where specific accommodations are required
by law.
   (F)   All contact between an employee and the EAP is held strictly
confidential. In cases where an employee’s continued employment is contingent
upon calling the EAP, the EAP counselor will only verify whether the employee
has contacted the EAP and, if ongoing treatment is necessary, that the employee
is following through on the treatment.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.157 WORKERS' COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The city pays the entire amount of the workers' compensation insurance
premium providing benefits to employees who experience injury or illness in
connection with employment. Eligibility begins on the first day of employment.
Workers' compensation benefit entitlements are governed by KRS Chapter 342. If
employees have questions concerning their rights or benefit amounts, they
should contact the City Treasurer.
   (B)   Unless extenuating circumstances make it impossible, or impractical,
an employee who is injured, or becomes ill, in connection with employment,
regardless of the severity of the injury, shall immediately notify their
department director/supervisor and/or the City Clerk, who will see to necessary
medical attention and assist in the completion of any required reports. In any
case of serious injury, employees are required to receive prompt medical
attention by a physician authorized under the city’s designated workers’
compensation plan. Employees and supervisors shall contact the City Clerk to
report all work-related accidents and injuries.
   (C)   Except in the case of serious illness or injury, an employee must also
call the “Company Nurse” on the Injury Hotline at 855-339-1889. More
information on this program can be found in §
37.064, Reporting Work-Related Accidents.
   (D)   Employees receiving workers’ compensation for job-related injuries or
disease may use sick and/or vacation leave to supplement the payment up to, but
not to exceed, their regular rate of pay for a period not to exceed three
months.
   (E)   Vacation and sick leave benefits will not continue to accrue while on
workers’ compensation leave.
   (F)   If the city has reasonable suspicion that the employee’s drug or
alcohol use may have been a factor in an injury while the employee is working
for the city, the employee will be subject to the post-accident drug testing
policy found within the city's Drug and Alcohol-Free Workplace Policy in §
37.066.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.158 RETURN-TO-WORK PROGRAM.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city, when possible, to modify work
assignments for a limited period to assist employees who are temporarily
restricted from performing their regularly assigned duties due to an on-the-job
injury. Note: This policy should not be construed as recognition that an
employee has a disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) of 1990 and its Amendments.
   (B)   This policy applies to all city employees.
   (C)   Definitions.
      (1)   EMPLOYMENT-RELATED INJURY is an injury or occupational disease,
which arises from the course and scope of employment and is a compensable
injury or illness, as defined under the Kentucky Workers' Compensation Act.
      (2)   EVALUATING PHYSICIAN, in this policy, means a doctor of medicine,
osteopathic medicine, optometry, dentistry, podiatry, or chiropractic who is
licensed and authorized to practice as defined in the Kentucky Workers'
Compensation Act.
      (3)   RETURN-TO-WORK (RTW) (MODIFIED-DUTY) POSITION is a temporary
position to which an employee is assigned when they are unable to return to
their regular position following an on-the-job injury or illness. The RETURN-
TO-WORK POSITION temporarily addresses the restrictions placed on an individual
by an evaluating physician.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the injured employee to inform the
evaluating physician of the employer's Return-to-Work Program; to adhere to the
assigned restrictions/limitations for the specified period of time; to maintain
a positive attitude toward working within physical restrictions/limitations;
and to continue to seek and follow appropriate medical care throughout the
recovery period.
   (E)   It is the responsibility of the employer to review and evaluate work
alternatives for a temporary specified period of time as established by the
evaluating physician; to evaluate the job description and modify requirements
within the position to accommodate the employee to the assigned restrictions;
to monitor the injured employee to ensure work performed is within the assigned
restrictions; and to continue to review and adjust job assignments as the
medical condition improves and restrictions change until the final goal of
either release to full duty or maximum medical improvement is achieved.
   (F)   It is the responsibility of the evaluating physician to assign
specific temporary restrictions for a specified period of time; to review and
adjust assigned restrictions at each evaluation; and to maintain beneficial and
appropriate medical care and treatment with the goal of moving the injured
worker to full duty release or maximum medical improvement.
   (G)   It is the responsibility of the claims adjuster to obtain specific
temporary restrictions/limitations for a specified period of time from the
evaluating physician after each evaluation; to communicate verbal and written
restrictions to the designated employer contact; and to work effectively with
the injured employee, employer, and physician to reach the goal of returning
employee to gainful employment.
   (H)   To be eligible for participation in the Return-to-Work Program, an
employee must provide a written statement from the designated treating
physician that they are:
      (1)   Temporarily unable to perform their essential duties following an
employment-related injury or illness; and
      (2)   Capable of carrying out work of a lighter or modified nature from
their regular duties and they are expected to return to their regular duties
within 90 calendar days.
   (I)   Once notified of an on-the-job injury or illness, and the injury has
been reported to the employer's workers' compensation carrier, the employer
will inform the employee in writing of the Return-to-Work Program.
   (J)   The employee must be seen and evaluated by a physician to determine if
the employee is able to return to work and, if so, with, or without,
restrictions.
   (K)   At the time of the evaluation, the employee must inform the physician
of the Return-to-Work Program and provide them with a copy of the employee's
regular job description that identifies the essential job functions and its
requirements.
   (L)   When the employee can return to work with restrictions, the employee’s
evaluating physician must complete a report, indicating the specific
restrictions and the duration of those restrictions. Clarification regarding
temporary restrictions may be requested of the evaluating physician.
   (M)   Taking into consideration the information provided by the evaluating
physician, the employee's department director, in consultation with the City
Commission, will determine if a temporary modified-duty assignment can be
offered. There may be instances in which the city will not be able to offer a
modified-duty assignment.
   (N)   If the employee's regular department is unable to meet the employee's
need for the modified- duty position, the employee's department is responsible
for payment of the employee's salary and benefits while performing a modified-
duty position in a different department which has been able to meet the
employee's need for modified duty.
   (O)   The employer should use one of the two following compensation
arrangements:
      (1)   There will be no adjustment in the employee’s normal compensation.
The salary and benefits of the employee will remain the responsibility of the
original employing department, including during any period of temporary
placement external to the department.
      (2)   In most cases, there will not be an adjustment in the compensation
of the employee that is placed in a modified-duty position. However, the
employee placed in a modified-duty position will be paid a salary that is
equivalent to the salary of other employees holding the same position. If that
salary is less than their normal salary, then they will be paid at least what
the maximum weekly benefit would be for their regular salary as defined by the
Kentucky Workers' Compensation Act.
   (P)   Once the employee has been approved to participate in the Return-to-
Work Program, the department must provide a return-to-work letter. This letter
will include:
      (1)   The position offered;
      (2)   The location and duties of the position offered;
      (3)   The wages and schedule of the position offered;
      (4)   The duration of the temporary work assignment; and
      (5)   A statement acknowledging that the employer is knowledgeable about
and will abide by the limitations under which the treating physician has
authorized the return to work.
   (Q)   An employee may choose to accept or refuse the return-to-work offer.
Rejection of the job could result in suspension of income benefits under
workers’ compensation insurance.
   (R)   Employees do not waive any rights to workers' compensation benefits by
participating in the Return-to-Work Program. Employees participating in the
Return-to-Work Program will continue to be covered by the Workers' Compensation
Act for reasonable and necessary medical expenses and disability benefits
related to the injury or illness.
   (S)   The maximum length of a return-to-work with modified-duty offer will
be 90 calendar days. The duration of approved time will be based upon the
information provided by the employee's evaluating treating physician.
   (T)   An employee who is unable to return to their regularly assigned duties
at the end of the modified-duty assignment and who remains with temporary
restrictions which will prevent them from returning to their pre-injury
position, will begin to receive temporary total disability benefits through the
workers' compensation program. If the restrictions are permanent and will not
allow the employee to return to their pre-injury position, then they can
request a leave of absence, or the employer can address termination.
   (U)   Employees may be required to attend an independent medical exam (IME)
to either clarify the continued restrictions or find that they have reached
maximum medical improvement (MMI), and permanent restrictions are assigned as
determined by the evaluating physician.
   (V)   The department has the option to approve, or deny, the leave of
absence request. If leave without pay is denied, pursuant to the city's Unpaid
Leave Policy, employment with the city will be terminated.
   (W)   If the employee believes that the condition is permanent, progressive,
or chronic, they may pursue the Americans with Disabilities Act Accommodation
Policy, in §
37.022 of this chapter, to determine if they are a qualified individual with a
disability.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.159 RETIREMENT AND SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   The city offers a simple IRA. This is a type of tax-deferred employer
provided retirement plan that allows employees to set aside money and invest it
to grow for later use, which is more particularly described as follows:
      (1)   The city's simple IRA is a type of individual retirement account
(IRA) that is set up to be an employer provided plan.
      (2)   The plan is available to full-time employees who meet the hourly
work and wage requirements.
      (3)   The IRS contribution limit for a simple IRA is determined by the
IRS. Complete details are available through the city's financial advisor.
   (B)   The city participates in the federal social security program and will
contribute a percentage of salary, to the extent required by law, to the Social
Security Administration for each employee.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.160 EMPLOYEE EDUCATION REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Subject to the constraints of the annual budget, the city will attempt
to make individualized opportunities available to its employees for further
development of specific skills and expertise deemed of mutual benefit to the
employee and the city. The continuing education assistance provided under this
policy is intended to support the pursuit of a formal degree and to supplement
employee development provided through seminars, workshops, conferences, and
similar activities that are paid for by the city under the Professional
Memberships, Training, Licensing, and Certification Policy within this section.
   (B)   All full-time employees who have completed at least one year of
continuous employment with the city are eligible to receive continuing
education assistance reimbursements up to a maximum of $1,500 per fiscal year
for tuition and instructional materials for approved educational activities.
   (C)   All education and training courses, for which reimbursement is
requested, must relate directly to the employee's current job functions and
responsibilities, or to job functions and responsibilities within the city that
the employee, in the view of management, will likely have the opportunity to
undertake in the foreseeable future.
   (D)   Continuing education assistance funding shall be available only on a
reimbursement basis, and only to the extent authorized in the city's annual
budget. Reimbursement will be made in accordance with the following schedule if
the employee successfully completes the approved educational activity:
      (1)   A 100% reimbursement will be granted for preapproved educational
courses where the employee receives a letter grade of “A” in undergraduate, or
equivalent, coursework or the letter grade of “A” or “B” in graduate-level
coursework. Further, 100% reimbursement is granted for preapproved educational
coursework where the class is graded on a pass/fail basis and the employee
achieves a passing mark.
      (2)   An 85% reimbursement will be granted for preapproved educational
courses where the employee receives a letter grade of “B” in undergraduate or
equivalent coursework.
      (3)   A 70% reimbursement will be granted for preapproved educational
courses where the employee receives a letter grade of “C” in graduate-level
coursework.
      (4)   A 50% reimbursement will be granted for preapproved educational
courses where the employee receives a letter grade of “C” in undergraduate or
equivalent coursework.
   (E)   If continuing education assistance funding for an individual employee
exceeds $500 in any fiscal year, the employee may be asked to enter into a
contract with the city for repayment of the funding in the event the employee
terminates employment with the city within a specified time after completion of
the coursework.
   (F)   All requests for funding shall be submitted, in writing, to the
employee's immediate supervisor. The request must include specific details of
the proposed activity, cost, duration, and an assessment of the potential
benefit to the employee and the city. All requests for funding shall be made no
later than 30 days before the beginning of the requested activity. Exceptions
may be made to the 30-day period for coursework where the total cost does not
exceed $300.
   (G)   Supervisors shall be responsible for reviewing the request, discussing
it with the employee, and forwarding the request, along with the supervisor's
recommendation, to the City Clerk for final approval by the City Commission if
not included in the city budget. Final decisions regarding continuing education
assistance funding shall be made based on the relevance of the activity to the
employee's job functions and responsibilities, the employee's workload, equity
among staff members, seniority, budget constraints, and other factors that are
deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Supervisors should consider these
factors in making recommendations to the City Clerk regarding the request.
   (H)   Within 60 days of the completion of an educational or training
activity for which reimbursement is sought, the employee shall submit a written
report to the employee's supervisor concerning the outcome of the activity. The
report must include the transcript, or other official documentation of grades
achieved (if the activity is graded), and any other evidence of successful
completion of the activity. The supervisor shall forward the report to the city
clerk with any pertinent comments and recommendations regarding reimbursement
and the city clerk shall forward it to the City Commission for final approval.
   (I)   Approval in one fiscal year does not guarantee that an employee will
be approved again in any subsequent year nor shall approval for or successful
completion of an educational activity under this policy be interpreted, or
relied upon, by the employee as any type of promise or guarantee regarding
compensation or advancement.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.161 PUBLIC SERVICE LOAN FORGIVENESS.
   (A)   If an employee has federal Direct Loans, including Direct
Consolidation Loans, they may be eligible for Public Service Loan Forgiveness,
also known as PSLF.
   (B)   If an employee makes 120 qualifying monthly payments under a
qualifying repayment plan while serving in the military or employed at a
government or non-profit entity, the employee may be eligible to get the
balance of their loans forgiven.
   (C)   For additional information, see the following link https://
studentaid.gov/manage-loans/forgiveness- cancellation/public-service.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.162 PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIPS, TRAINING, LICENSING AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Certain positions of employment with the city require professional
membership, licensure, and certification. In general, the city will cover all
costs of memberships, training, examinations, or renewal of licenses and
certifications that directly relate to the employee's current position with the
city.
   (B)   Employees shall notify their department director of any memberships,
training, certifications, and licenses that may be covered under this policy by
April 1 so that appropriate steps can be taken to include these costs in the
annual departmental budget. An employee shall not expect the city to pay or
reimburse the employee for the cost of any membership, training, examination,
license, or certification unless it has been approved in advance by the
department director and the Mayor and included in the city budget.
   (C)   An employee's department director shall determine the relevancy of the
membership, training, examination, license, or certification as it relates to
the employee's current job functions or job functions that the employee is
expected to undertake in the foreseeable future.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
PAID AND UNPAID LEAVES
§ 37.175 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All full-time city employees shall receive paid leave for the
following holidays:
      (1)   New Year's Day
      (2)   Martin Luther King Day
      (3)   President's Day
      (4)   Memorial Day
      (5)   One half day on Good Friday
      (6)   Independence Day
      (7)   Labor Day
      (8)   Veteran's Day
      (9)   Thanksgiving Day
      (10)   Day after Thanksgiving
      (11)   Christmas Eve
      (12)   Christmas Day
      (13)   New Year's Eve
      (14)   One floating holiday of the employee's choosing subject to
approval by their department director/supervisor.
   (B)   Unless otherwise designated by the City Commission, paid holidays will
be observed on the date of their actual occurrence. If the holiday falls on a
Saturday, the holiday will be observed on the preceding Friday. If the holiday
falls on a Sunday, the holiday will be observed on the following Monday.
   (C)   Any employee who is required to work on the actual holiday will be
paid for all hours worked in addition to eight hours of holiday pay.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.176 VACATION LEAVE.
   (A)   All full-time employees shall receive paid vacation leave. Temporary
employees and seasonal employees shall not be eligible for paid vacation leave.
Vacation leave shall be granted to an employee each calendar year on the
following basis:
      (1)   After 90 days with the city, an employee receives one week of
vacation per calendar year.
      (2)   After two years with the city, an employee receives two weeks of
vacation per calendar year.
      (3)   After five years with the city, an employee receives three weeks of
vacation per calendar year.
      (4)   After ten years with the city, an employee receives four weeks of
vacation per calendar year.
   (B)   Vacation leave begins to accrue on the first day of employment.
   (C)   Vacation leave shall not accrue for any month during which there was a
suspension of five days or more or a personal leave of absence without pay in
excess of ten workdays. In addition, vacation leave shall not accrue for any
leave of absence in excess of six months due to injury sustained in the course
of employment. Vacation leave will not be charged for any recognized holiday
falling within a period of approved vacation.
   (D)   On January 1 of every year, each employee’s vacation leave account
will be credited with the full amount of the annual vacation leave due the
employee for the ensuing year. Each pay period, the employee’s vacation leave
account will be debited for vacation leave used by the employee during the
preceding period. If an employee ceases to be employed during the year, the
employee must repay to the city the amount of vacation leave used in excess of
the leave that has accrued up to the date of termination. If possible, the
value of the excess leave will be deducted from the employee’s final paycheck.
   (E)   An employee shall receive advance approval from their immediate
supervisor prior to the use of any vacation leave time by the submission of an
Absentee Request (HR Form Seven) in accordance with §
37.188 of this chapter. Requests for use of vacation leave time should be made
as soon as possible to ensure minimum disruption to the department and the
organization work schedule and workflow. Payment for vacation leave shall be at
the employee’s current rate of pay. An employee who has a break in service,
except for a lay-off, shall not receive credit for prior service but shall be
treated as a newly hired employee.
   (F)   An employee may carry over a maximum of 20 days of accrued and unused
vacation leave time to the next calendar year. Any amount over 20 days will be
compensated at the full rate at the end of each calendar year. At the end of
each calendar year, an audit of each employee’s accrued vacation time will be
made available to the employee. Each employee shall be required to sign the
audit form stating that they agree with the form and their supervisor shall
also sign.
   (G)   Absence on account of sickness, injury, or disability in excess of
that hereinafter authorized for such purposes shall at the request of the
employee and within the discretion of the City Commission, be charged against
vacation leave. If an employee is placed on leave of absence without pay, he or
she shall be paid for any accumulated vacation.
   (H)   Upon termination of employment, an employee shall be paid for any
vested, but unused, vacation leave time up to 20 days. The employee shall be
compensated at the regular hourly rate earned by the employee at the time of
separation. The applicable hourly rate for both exempt and nonexempt employees
shall be calculated as provided in §
37.125 of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.177 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Each full-time employee of the city shall be entitled to sick leave of
3.75 hours with pay for each completed work month of service or major fraction
thereof (3.75 hours constitutes a major fraction). Employees who render
emergency, part-time, per diem, or contract service shall not be entitled to
sick leave. No employee shall be entitled to sick pay for days missed which
were not regularly scheduled workdays. A sick day shall be considered that
number of hours included in the individual employee’s normal workday, not to
exceed eight hours. Unused sick leave may be cumulative up to 30 days.
   (B)   Sick leave time begins to accrue on the first day of employment. For
periods of less than one month, such as at the beginning or end of employment,
sick leave will accrue on a pro rata basis in minimum increments of 1/4 hour.
   (C)   On January 1 of every year, each employee’s sick leave account will be
credited with the full amount of the annual sick leave due to the employee for
the ensuing year. Each pay period, the employee’s sick leave account will be
debited for sick leave used by the employee during the preceding period. If an
employee ceases to be employed during the year, the employee must repay to the
city the amount of sick leave used in excess of the leave that has accrued up
to the date of termination. If possible, the value of the excess leave will be
deducted from the employee’s final paycheck.
   (D)   An employee may use sick leave for any one of the following reasons:
      (1)   To avoid jeopardizing the health of other employees;
      (2)   Illness, disability, medical condition, or a medical or dental
appointment of the employee, or a member of the employee’s immediate family
necessitating the employee’s presence. IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall mean the
employee’s spouse, child, mother, father, or other permanent members of the
employee’s household;
      (3)   Personal leave; or
      (4)   Because mental health is an integral part of overall wellness, the
city allows employees to take advantage of sick leave for occasional “mental
health days.”
   (E)   An employee using sick leave time shall notify their immediate
supervisor, as soon as possible, of the need to use sick leave. For periods of
leave longer than one full day, the employee shall notify their supervisor of
each separate day that leave will be used unless prior arrangements have been
made.
   (F)   Whenever an employee uses sick leave time, the employee shall submit
an Absentee Request (HR Form Seven) in accordance with §
37.188 of this chapter. When possible, the employee shall submit the Absentee
Request Form in advance of the leave. Otherwise, the employee shall submit the
Absentee Request Form immediately upon return to work.
   (G)   A medical certification or physician’s statement will generally not be
required to return to work after the use of sick leave. However, an employee’s
department director may require medical certification or a physician’s
statement, when there is a reasonable basis to believe the sick leave policy is
being abused, to certify that the employee can perform the essential functions
of the job without risking the safety of themselves or others, or the
employee’s length of absence exceeds three full workdays.
   (H)   An employee may carry over an accumulated maximum of 30 days of unused
sick leave time to the next calendar year. Any sick leave in excess of 30 days
may be paid to the employee at the end of the calendar year. The applicable
hourly rate for both exempt and nonexempt employees shall be calculated as
provided in § 37.125 and subject to all required deductions.
   (I)   Upon termination of employment, the employee will be compensated at a
rate of 50% of current compensation for up to 30 days of accumulated sick leave
days.
   (J)   An employee eligible for sick leave with pay may use such leave, upon
approval of their immediate supervisor, for absence due to illness, injury,
exposure to contagious disease which could be communicated to other employees,
illness or death in the employee’s immediate family (For this purpose,
IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall mean spouse, mother,  father, children, grandchildren,
mother or father-in-law, grandparents, sister, or brother). An employee on sick
leave shall inform their immediate supervisor of the facts and the reason
therefore as soon as possible and failure to do so within a reasonable time may
be cause for denial of sick leave with pay for the period of his/her absence.
Sick/personal time can be used for doctor/dentist appointments, or any other
reasonable appointment time as approved by their immediate supervisor.
   (K)   Absences for a fraction or part of a day are chargeable to sick leave
in accordance with the provisions and shall be charged proportionately as time
is used. Sick time to be recorded on last working day of the month. At the end
of each calendar year, an audit of the employee’s accrued sick time will be
made available to the employee. Each employee and their immediate supervisor
personnel officer shall be required to sign the audit form stating that they
agree with the calculation on the audit form.
   (L)   Any employee fraudulently obtaining sick leave, or department
director/supervisor falsely certifying sick leave allowance for absence from
work for other reasons, may be suspended, reprimanded, or dismissed. The
Treasurer shall keep records of sick leave allowance, sick leave taken, and
balance of sick leave allowance for the individual employees.
   (M)   In the event of sick leave for any purpose, the immediate supervisor
may require a physician’s certificate or other suitable evidence giving
information as to the circumstances involved.
   (N)   The immediate supervisor shall notify his or her employees of his or
her accrued sick leave balance at the end of each calendar year, a summary of
which shall be kept in the employee’s file.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.178 SICK LEAVE DONATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines and procedures
for the administration of the Sick Leave Donation Program. This program permits
city employees to donate a portion of their accrued sick leave time for the use
of other employees who are experiencing a medical emergency or for maternity or
parental leave. A MEDICAL EMERGENCY is a medical condition of an employee or
their family member(s) that results in a prolonged absence from work and
substantial loss of income due to the employee’s exhaustion of all available
paid leave. Use of donated sick leave time by another employee is permitted
after the City Treasurer determines the receiving employee’s eligibility.
   (B)   Employees may donate accrued sick leave hours to coworkers who have
experienced either their own medical emergency or to care for a family member
during a medical emergency, or for the recovery from the birth of a child, or
for parental leave as stated in the Pregnancy and Parental Leave Policy.
Employees wishing to receive donated leave must have exhausted their own paid
leave time.  FAMILY MEMBER is defined as an employee’s spouse, child, mother,
father, grandmother, grandfather, brothers, sisters, immediate in-laws, or
other permanent members of the employee’s household.
   (C)   An employee wishing to donate sick leave hours to another employee
must meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Employee must have at least 200 sick leave hours accrued prior to
the donation of sick leave hours to another employee.
      (2)   Employee may not donate in excess of 160 hours per employee per
calendar year. Sick leave may be donated in eight-hour increments only.
      (3)   Employee must sign a statement of understanding, Sick Leave
Donation (HR Form Eight) regarding the sick leave donation and its effect on
the employee’s accrued sick leave and have the donation approved by the
employee’s immediate supervisor.
   (D)   An employee who meets the following criteria shall be eligible to
receive donated sick leave hours after the first pay period in which the
employee’s accrued leave (sick leave, vacation leave, and any other form of
accrued leave) balance is zero.
      (1)   An employee may not solicit any other employee on their behalf to
donate sick leave time.
      (2)   An employee must have worked for the city for 12 months or longer
and must be an employee in good standing.
      (3)   An employee must be in a full-time position established by the City
Commission.
      (4)   An employee must be off work due to a verifiable personal or family
member’s catastrophic illness or injury, not including workers’ compensation.
      (5)   An employee must provide medical certification of inability to work
or certification of a serious illness of a family member.
      (6)   Employee must sign a statement of understanding, Sick Leave
Application (HR Form Nine).
      (7)   Provided an employee meets or exceeds the above criteria, the
employee may receive donated sick time from other city employees as follows:
         (a)   An employee having a total of up to 120 months of accumulated
service with the city shall be eligible to receive up to 100 hours of donated
sick time in any calendar year.
         (b)   An employee having a total of 121 to 240 months of accumulated
service with the city shall be eligible to receive up to 200 hours of donated
sick time in any calendar year.
         (c)   An employee having a total of 241 to 360 months of accumulated
service with the city shall be eligible to receive up to 250 hours of donated
sick time in any calendar year.
         (d)   An employee having in excess of 360 months of accumulated
service with the city shall be eligible to receive up to 300 hours of donated
sick time in any calendar year.
   (E)   A receiving employee may use donated time at the same rate as the
receiving employee is normally scheduled to work. For example, a 20 hour per
week employee may not receive and be paid for more than 20 hours donated per
week; an employee working 40 hours per week may not receive and be paid for
more than 40 hours per week.
   (F)   There will be no accrual of vacation or sick leave as a result of
using donated sick leave hours.
   (G)   An employee who has received donated sick leave time must return to
work at the earliest possible date the employee is fit to work, regardless of
the availability of sick leave donations. The city reserves the right to
request an opinion from a medical professional of the city’s choice to attest
to the continued need to be absent from work.
   (H)   the City Treasurer shall process donations of sick leave time on the
next pay period upon the receipt of authorization from the human resources
officer, ensuring that the hours donated will be transferred to the receiving
employee’s sick leave account.
   (I)   An employee receiving sick leave donations will continue to receive
all other benefits provided by the city in accordance with the city’s policies
and procedures.
   (J)   Any pay received by the employee as a result of donated sick leave
time will be subject to any usual deductions on incomes (e.g., federal and
state taxes, retirement, etc.)
   (K)   Sick leave hours donated but unused shall be returned to the employees
who donated the time on a prorated basis (e.g., an employee who donates 25% of
the total sick leave hours donated shall receive 25% of the sick leave hours
donated but not used).
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.179 FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (FMLA).
   The federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) applies to all public
agencies. However, employees of public agencies must meet all the requirements
of eligibility, including the requirement that the employer employs 50 or more
employees for FMLA eligibility. The city does not employ 50 or more employees
at the time of adoption of this policy’ as such, employees are not currently
eligible for FMLA.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.180 MATERNITY AND PARENTAL LEAVE.
   (A)   The city recognizes that employees may need to be absent from work to
care for a newborn child or newly adopted or placement of a foster child
(referred to as parental leave in this policy), or due to a pregnancy-related
condition (referred to as pregnancy leave in this policy). The city provides
pregnancy and parental leaves of absence to all eligible employees in
accordance with the Pregnancy Discrimination Act (PDA), Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA), Kentucky Pregnant Workers Act, and any applicable state
law.
   (B)   The City Clerk is responsible for the administration of this policy.
If an employee has any questions regarding this policy, or if they have
questions about pregnancy or parental leave that are not addressed in this
policy, the employee should contact the City Treasurer.
   (C)   If an employee needs to take parental leave for the birth of their
child or to care for a newly adopted or foster child, the employee should
provide advance notice to their supervisor or the City Clerk. When possible,
the employee should give at least a 30-day notice of the request for leave. If
a 30-day notice is not possible because of medical necessity or for other
reasons, the employee should give as much advance notice to the city as
possible.
   (D)   Written notice is preferred, but not required. If the employee is
suffering from a pregnancy-related disability and requires reasonable
accommodation (which may include leave) for this purpose, the employee should
speak with their department director and/or the City Clerk to discuss a
reasonable accommodation. The employee may be required to submit medical
certification of disability.
   (E)   During pregnancy and parental leave, employees will be paid 50% of
their normal rate of pay for four weeks. Employees also may use any or all
their accrued but unused vacation or other paid time off during their pregnancy
and parental leave.
   (F)   During pregnancy and parental leave, all benefits provided under an
employee benefit plan are governed by the terms and conditions of the
applicable employee benefit plan documents in accordance with applicable law.
For all other benefits, an employee on pregnancy or parental leave will receive
the same rights and benefits as employees on a paid or an unpaid leave of
absence.
   (G)   The employee’s job will be held for them in accordance with applicable
law while they are on pregnancy or parental leave.
   (H)   If the employee is on pregnancy-related disability leave, when they
are able to return to work, they must submit a doctor’s certification stating
the employee is medically able to return to normal duties. Continued absence
from work beyond the required disability leave period (as determined by the
employee’s physician) and exhaustion of all other available leave may be deemed
a voluntary abandonment of the job.
   (I)   Nothing in this policy requires the city to reemploy individuals who
are not eligible for reemployment rights under applicable law.
   (J)   The city prohibits, and will not tolerate, discrimination or
retaliation against any employee or applicant because of that person’s
pregnancy or parental leave. Specifically, no one will be denied employment,
reemployment, promotion, or any other benefit of employment or be subjected to
any adverse employment action based on that person’s pregnancy or parental
leave. In addition, no one will be disciplined, intimidated, or otherwise
retaliated against because that person exercised rights under this policy or
applicable law.
   (K)   The city is committed to enforcing this policy against discrimination
and retaliation. However, the effectiveness of our efforts depends on employees
telling us about inappropriate workplace conduct. If employees feel that they,
or someone else, may have been subjected to conduct that violates this policy,
they should report it immediately. If employees do not report such conduct, the
city may not become aware of a possible violation of this policy and may not be
able to take appropriate corrective action.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.181 ADOPTION LEAVE.
   (A)   An employee adopting a child under the age of ten shall be granted
reasonable personal leave that does not exceed six weeks. Or, if the city has a
policy of providing time off for birth parents that is greater than six weeks,
that period of time shall be the minimum period of leave available to adoptive
parents. During adoption leave, employees will be paid 50% of their normal rate
of pay for four weeks as stated in the Maternity and Parental Leave Policy.
   (B)   In addition, if the city provides paid leave, or any other benefits,
to employees who are birth parents following the birth of a child, the same
paid leave and/or benefits) will be available to employees adopting a child
under the age of ten.
   (C)   This leave is not available to an adoption by fictive kin, stepparent,
stepsibling, blood relative, including a relative of a half-blood, first
cousin, aunt, uncles, nephew, niece, and a person of a preceding generation as
denoted by prefixes of grand, great or great-great, or foster parent who adopts
a foster child who is already in their care.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.182 CRITICAL INCIDENT LEAVE FOR POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Up to two working days of Critical Incident Leave is provided to
police officers when an officer is involved in an event resulting in a
stressful impact that is sufficient to overwhelm a peace officer’s usual coping
strategies as defined in KRS 15.518 and the Police Department Standard
Operating Procedures and KRS 95A.292.
   (B)   A police officer involved in a critical incident must make the request
for this leave from their supervisor as described in the Police Department
Standard Operating Procedures.
   (C)   The leave provided under this policy will be paid to the officer at
their normal rate of pay. Any leave beyond the two working days will be unpaid;
however, any additional time needed by the officer may be covered by any of
their available accrued leave time.
   (D)   Whenever the use of critical incident leave is necessary, the employee
shall provide advance notice to their supervisor and the employee shall submit
an Absentee Request (HR Form Seven) in accordance with §
37.188 of this chapter. When possible, the employee shall submit the Absentee
Request Form in advance of the leave. Otherwise, the employee shall submit the
Absentee Request Form immediately upon return to work.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.183 BEREAVEMENT LEAVE.
   (A)   All full-time city employees shall be eligible for paid bereavement
leave in the event of death in the employee’s immediate or extended family.
Bereavement leave shall be granted on the following basis:
      (1)   An employee shall be authorized for up to three days of paid
bereavement leave in the event of death in the employee’s immediate family. For
the purposes of this paragraph IMMEDIATE FAMILY  shall mean the employee’s
parents, grandparents, siblings, and children, including step-relatives and in-
laws.
      (2)   An employee may be eligible for up to one day of additional paid
bereavement leave for extenuating circumstances, such as for traveling long
distances and making family arrangements. In addition, other special
relationships may exist where the employee may be eligible for one day of
bereavement leave. In these instances, the employee should discuss the
circumstance or the relationship with the employee’s immediate supervisor, who
shall grant or deny such requests considering the workload, the employee’s
circumstances, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   Whenever the use of bereavement leave is necessary, the employee shall
provide advance notice to their immediate supervisor and the employee shall
submit an Absentee Request (HR Form Seven) in accordance with §
37.188 of this chapter. When possible, the employee shall submit the Absentee
Request Form in advance of the leave. Otherwise, the employee shall submit the
Absentee Request Form immediately upon return to work.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.184 UNPAID LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   Upon exhaustion of all accrued paid leave time, any request for unpaid
leave shall be submitted to the employee’s supervisor and the Mayor. The Mayor
and supervisor will decide whether to grant the unpaid leave request and other
terms of the leave depending upon the reasons for the requested leave and the
needs of the department and the city.
   (B)   If granted an unpaid leave of absence, an employee will not be
compensated and will not receive any other employee benefits. As such, the
employee must make an election as to COBRA for group health care for the
employee, as well as any qualified dependents. In addition, the employee will
be subject to the terms and conditions of the specific plan, to continue any
optional benefits, upon prepayment by the employee of the applicable
contribution or premium during the period of the absence. Any failure by the
employee to prepay any optional benefits may result in termination of the
benefit.
   (C)   Employees on unpaid leave will not accrue any vacation or sick leave
time during the unpaid absence.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.185 JURY DUTY AND COURT-ORDERED APPEARANCES.
   (A)   The city encourages employees to fulfill their obligation as citizens
when called to serve jury duty or to comply with a court or administrative
subpoena. An employee that is required to attend jury duty or comply with a
court or administrative subpoena during their regular working hours at the city
shall be paid their full salary for the period of such service.
   (B)   An employee involved in litigation or court proceedings as a plaintiff
or petitioner and who is not appearing before the court because of a duly
issued subpoena shall not be eligible for the paid leave provided under the
provisions of this policy but may be permitted to use annual or compensatory
leave time for such absences as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The employee must provide a copy of the summons or subpoena to their
immediate supervisor as soon as possible after receiving such notice.
   (D)   The employee shall submit an Absentee Request (HR Form Seven) in
accordance with §
37.188 of this chapter showing the dates and times out of the office
necessitated by the employee’s service required by the court.
   (E)   Any employee excused by the court during their normal working hours
shall contact their immediate supervisor to determine if they will be required
to work the remainder of their normal work schedule.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.186 VOTING LEAVE.
   (A)   The city encourages its employees to vote on election day. To
facilitate efficient scheduling and management of the office workload, an
employee shall request voting leave from the employee’s supervisor at least one
day in advance of the election date, or one day in advance of the date on which
the employee appears before the county clerk to request an application for or
to execute an absentee ballot.
   (B)   The supervisor shall grant a reasonable period of voting leave (not
less than four hours, if specifically requested by the employee) for an
employee who is qualified to vote and who has requested voting leave in
accordance with this policy. The city will compensate the employee for the
leave. The supervisor shall specify the hours during which the employee may be
absent.
   (C)   Prior to using voting leave, the employee shall submit an Absentee
Request (HR Form Seven) in accordance with §
37.188 of this chapter, showing the times the employee has been approved to be
out of the office for voting leave.
   (D)   An employee who requests and takes voting leave, but who fails to vote
without an acceptable reason, shall be subject to disciplinary action.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.187 MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   The city will comply with the Uniformed Services Employment and
Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA) and the provisions of KRS 61.373
through 61.377 and KRS 61.394. USERRA grants military leave for employees, and
in most cases, reinstatement rights regardless of whether the service is
voluntary or involuntary.
   (B)   As the laws change, or as interpretations of the laws change, military
leave benefits for city employees may change accordingly. No attempt is made by
this policy to cover all possible situations and circumstances that may arise
when an employee is ordered to active duty. Therefore, as military leave
situations arise, an employee should consult with their immediate supervisor or
the City Clerk for details regarding their military leave rights as a city
employee.
   (C)   Unless precluded by military necessity, an employee shall provide
written notice to their immediate supervisor as soon as possible regarding the
need for military leave.
   (D)   In any one federal fiscal year (October 1-September 30), all full-time
and part-time employees involved in military service for the United States, or
the Commonwealth of Kentucky are eligible, upon request of the employee, to be
paid their normal wages for a maximum of 21 calendar days while on military
leave. Employees will only be paid based on the days they would have been
scheduled to work if not for military leave. Any unused military leave in a
federal fiscal year shall be carried over to the next year. Any unused military
leave shall expire two years after it has accrued.
   (E)   An employee shall be entitled to military leave without loss of time,
pay, regular leave, impairment of efficiency rating, or any other employment
rights or benefits to which the employee is entitled, while:
      (1)   In the performance of duty or training in the service of a state or
of the United States under competent orders as specified in this section;
      (2)   Physically disabled as a result of an injury, illness, or disease
incurred or aggravated in the line of duty while performing active-duty or
inactive-duty training; or
      (3)   Entitled to incapacitation pay pursuant to 37 U.S.C. sec. 204.
      (4)   Leave pursuant to divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) above shall not
exceed six months unless approved by the employee’s appointing authority.
   (F)   During periods of military leave of two years or less, the employee
shall be paid a salary to supplement military compensation, so that the
aggregate compensation received by the employee shall be no less than the
employee’s normal compensation for the period of military leave.
   (G)   Employees called to active duty should fill out the Active-Duty
Military Leave Notification (HR Form Eighteen) as soon as practicable.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
§ 37.188 ABSENTEE REQUESTS.
   (A)   The Absentee Request (HR Form   ) is available to employees from the
City Clerk and in the appendix to the Employee Handbook. When this form is
submitted by the employee, the form will be sent directly to the employee’s
immediate supervisor, who will be responsible for exercising managerial
discretion in deciding whether to approve or deny the leave request.
   (B)   Employees are required to submit an Absentee Request (HR Form   )
whenever any type of leave is requested or taken as outlined in the policies
contained in this chapter. The employee is required to provide the date and
time of the leave. Employees are permitted to use any type of leave time in 15-
minute increments.
   (C)   Whenever possible, employees are required to submit an Absentee
Request Form before the leave is taken. If it is impossible or impractical for
the employee to submit an Absentee Request Form prior to taking the leave, the
employee shall submit the form immediately upon return to work. Any employee
who takes leave time and fails to submit an Absentee Request Form shall be
subject to disciplinary action.
(Ord. 5-11-2023-A, passed 6-8-2023)
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
38.001   Title
   
38.002   Findings
   
38.003   Purpose and authority
   
38.004   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
38.015   Conflicts of interest in general
   
38.016   Conflict of interest in contracts
   
38.017   Receipt of gifts
   
38.018   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
38.019   Representation of interests before city government
   
38.020   Misuse of confidential information
   
38.021   Post-employment restriction
   
38.022   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
38.035   Who must file
   
38.036   When to file statements; amended statements
   
38.037   Form of statement of financial interest
   
38.038   Control and maintenance of statements of financial interests
   
38.039   Contents of financial interests statement
   
38.040   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
38.055   Nepotism policy
Enforcement
   
38.070   Board of Ethics created
   
38.071   Alternate members
   
38.072   Facilities and staff
   
38.073   Powers and duties of Board of Ethics
   
38.074   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
38.075   Notice of hearings
   
38.076   Hearing procedure
   
38.077   Appeals
   
38.078   Limitation of actions
   
38.079   Advisory opinions
   
38.080   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
38.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Financial interest statement; forms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City Code of Ethics.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.002 FINDINGS.
   The City Commission finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are a public trust;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends on
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standard which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS.  The City Board of Ethics which is created and vested by
this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the
city’s Code of Ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Middletown, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation or other
entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of his or her
employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A City Commission member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   The City Treasurer;
      (5)   The City Manager;
      (6)   The City Administrator (Administrative Officer);
      (7)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; and
      (8)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 38.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted financial benefit
for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest; or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or business as defined in
division (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business, occupation,
profession or other group, to any greater extent than any gain could reasonably
be expected to accrue to any other member of the business, occupation,
profession or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.016 CONFLICT OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply to contracts
entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for the city
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office or was hired as an
employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office or is hired as an employee, the prohibition in division (A)
above shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply if the
contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) above shall not apply in any case
where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)    The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply or
other specific reasons; and/or
         (d)   The finding is made part of the official record of the governing
body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall be enforced under KRS 61.252.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.017 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city agency shall directly, or indirectly
through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift having a fair
market value of more than $200, whether in the form of money, service, loan,
travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form, under
circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was
intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to influence, the
officer or employee in the performance of his or her public duties.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.018 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless de minimus or unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; and/or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that the use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.019 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business for personal financial benefit, other than the city, in
connection with any cause, proceeding, application or other matter pending
before the city or any city agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.020 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall
intentionally use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her
official duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further
his or her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
   (B)   Information shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to
disclosure pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at
the time of its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.021 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency. This restriction may be waived
by the City Commission.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.022 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $200 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s service with
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article;
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994) Penalty, see §
38.999
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38.035 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and/or
   (D)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $100.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.036 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 30 days after the effective date of this chapter. All subsequent
statements of financial interest shall be filed no later than January 31 of
each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.037 FORM OF STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 1 of each year. The
failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver a
copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.038 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the “official custodian” of the statement
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian,” as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing. Until changed by the Board of
Ethics, the City Clerk is hereby named the “designated administrative official”
and the “custodian” for all purposes under this chapter.
   (B)   A statement of financial interest shall be retained by the Board or
the designated administrative official for those periods as are prescribed by
the State Archives and Records Commission, or in default of a regulation, for a
period of three years.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.039 CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividends, retirement fund distribution and the like); provided, however, the
filer may list for himself or herself and the filer’s immediate family, as a
single item, dividends and interest on stocks and bonds listed and customarily
sold or traded on national or regional stock exchanges;
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential or rural, and the location
of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year, and excluding
gifts from sources which have not done any business with the city in the past
five years and is not reasonably expected to do business with the city in the
next three years; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts, nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income, nor to require
the listing under division (A)(5) or (A)(6) above of stock or bond ownership of
stocks and bonds listed and customarily sold or traded on national or regional
stock exchanges where the company has not done business with the city for the
past five years and is not reasonably expected to do business with the city in
the next three years.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.040 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994) Penalty, see §
38.999
NEPOTISM
§ 38.055 NEPOTISM POLICY.
   The city finds that due to the size of its government and the lack of
compensation paid to its elected officials, and the casual service historically
rendered by family members, any prohibition of employment based solely on
relationships is not in the best interests of the city or its taxpayers. The
city recognizes that any expenditure of public funds is a public trust. Any
relationship must be fully disclosed to the City Commission.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.070 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties and responsibilities as set forth in this subchapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of not less than one nor more than
five members who shall be appointed by the City Commission. The initial members
of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the effective date
of this chapter. No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or
appointed office, whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with
the city or any city agency. The members shall serve for a term of three years;
except that when the Board consists of more than one member, appointments shall
be made for one, two or three years as designated in the appointment so as to
create staggered terms. All terms shall expire on December 31 of the designated
year. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall have been a resident of the city
for at least one year prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in
the city throughout the term in office. The members of the Board of Ethics
shall be chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation for
integrity and their knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be
re-appointed for any number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the City Commission
for misconduct, inability or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of
the Board of Ethics is removed from office under this section, the member shall
be afforded the opportunity for a hearing before the City Commission.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
City Commission. If a vacancy is not so filled within 60 days, the remaining
members of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the City Commission, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum
and the affirmative vote of a number of members equal to a quorum shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of
Ethics who has a conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be
considered by the Board shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall
disqualify himself or herself from voting on the matter, and shall not be
counted for purposes of establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.071 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The City Commission may appoint two alternate members of the Board of Ethics
who may be called upon to serve when any regular member of the Board is unable
to discharge his or her duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a
term of one year. Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be
subject to all of the requirements of this chapter that apply to regular
members.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.072 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the City Commission in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.073 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
City Commission or other appropriate person or body, as necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the State Open Record Act, being KRS 61.870 to 61.884;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the City Commission; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter; provided that the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.074 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant under oath, and shall meet any other requirements
established by the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge
receipt of a complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date
of receipt. The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or
employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy
of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Subject to division (D) below, within 30 days of the receipt of a
proper complaint, the Board of Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry
concerning the allegations contained in the complaint. The Board shall afford a
person who is the subject of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the
allegations in the complaint. The person shall have the right to be represented
by counsel, to appear and be heard under oath, and to offer evidence in
response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings in accordance with
law; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city its taxpayers or lack of significant impact on public confidence in
city government, issue a reprimand to the officer or employee concerning the
alleged violation and may provide a copy of the reprimand to the City
Commission; or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.075 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 90 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.076 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The State Rules of Civil Procedure and the State Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however, the
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as to afford
all parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who files the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may impose the penalties provided in §
38.999.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994) Penalty, see §
38.999
§ 38.077 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the Court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing. The Court may award attorney fees to the prevailing party
(either the city or the person charged).
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.078 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.079 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the State Open
Records Law, being KRS 61.870 to 61.884, to establish criteria under which it
will issue confidential advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be
public documents, except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it
shall be modified so that the identity of any person associated with the
opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance of any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory issued by the Board shall be binding on the Board
in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of the
particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, any fact determined by the Board to be material was omitted
or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be bound by the
opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violation of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.080 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall be subject
to reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city or the state any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
State Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; and
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
§ 38.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to City Commission and to city agency with
which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the City Commission the violator be
sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a recommendation for
discipline or dismissal, or removal from office; or
      (4)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
   (C)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under §
38.040(A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an
amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of $500. Any
civil fine imposed by the Board under this division may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses
to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
APPENDIX A: FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENT; FORMS
   
I.   Financial interest statement
   
II.   Schedule A: Income sources of filer and immediate family members
   
III.   Schedule B: Statement of business interests within state
   
IV.   Schedule C: Statement of business interests outside of state
   
V.   Schedule D: Real estate owned within Jefferson County, Kentucky
   
VI.   Schedule E: Statement of gifts or honoraria
   
VII.   Schedule F: Creditor list
I. FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENT.
   In accordance with Chapter 38 of the city’s code of ordinances, this
statement of financial interests is required to be filed with the Board of
Ethics, by filing with the City Clerk as the administrative official designated
as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later than January 1
of each year. A newly appointed officer or employee must file this statement no
later than 30 days after the date of appointment. A candidate for city office
must file this statement no later than 30 days after the date on which the
person becomes a candidate for elected city office.
Note: Nothing in this financial interests statement should be construed to
require any officer, employee or candidate to disclose any specific dollar
amounts nor the names of individual clients or customers of businesses listed
as sources of income.
1.   Name:
2.   Current Address(es)
 
 a. Business                                     b. Home
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
 Telephone:                   Telephone:                                
 
3.   Occupation
 
 a. Filer                                        b. Spouse
                                                                        
                                                                                                
                                                 Name of Spouse, if any
 
4.   Please identify any source of income of the filer and the filer’s
immediate family members that exceeds $5,000 during the preceding calendar
year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commissions, dividends,
retirement fund distribution and the like), on Schedule A, attached hereto.
5.   Please list the name and address of any business located within the state
in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any
time during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market
value or 5% ownership or more on Schedule B, attached herein. Do not list stock
or bond ownership of stocks and bonds listed and customarily sold on national
or regional stock exchanges where the company has not done business with the
city for the past five years and is not reasonably expected to do business with
the city in the next three years.
6.   Please list the name and address of any business located outside of the
state, if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city
during the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more on Schedule C,
attached hereto. Do not list stock or bond ownership of stocks and bonds listed
and customarily sold on national or regional stock exchanges where the company
has not done business with the city for the past five years and is not
reasonably expected to do business with the city in the next three years.
7.   Please designate as either commercial, residential or rural and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more, on Schedule
D, attached hereto.
8.   Please list each source, by name and address, of gifts or honoraria having
an aggregate fair market value of $200 or more from any single source,
excluding gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any
member of the filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year on
Schedule E, attached hereto. Do not list gifts from sources which have not done
any business with the city in the past five years and is not reasonably
expected to do business with the city in the next three years.
9.   Please list the name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000,
except debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase
of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal, family or
household purposes, on Schedule F, attached.
The undersigned hereby certifies that the foregoing and the attached schedules
are true and accurate as he or she verily believes, and agrees that
supplemental or amended schedules or disclosures will be filed in the event of
any material change of circumstances.
Dated:
                                                                                                                  
                                       Signature of person filing
For administrative use only:
Dale Filed:                                                    
Received by:                                                    
II. SCHEDULE A: INCOME SOURCES OF FILER AND IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS
   Please identify any source of income of the filer and the filer’s immediate
family members that exceeds $5,000 during the preceding calendar year, and the
nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission, dividends, retirement fund
distribution and the like) (Item 4).
    Income Recipient Source of Income Type of Income
   Check here if the filer or any member of filer’s immediate family had
income of over $5,000 as dividends and interest on stocks and bonds listed
and customarily sold on national or regional stock exchanges and do not list
elsewhere on this form.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
 
III. SCHEDULE B: STATEMENT OF BUSINESS INTERESTS WITHIN STATE
   Please list the name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership or more (Item 5). Do not list stock or bond ownership of stocks
and bonds listed and customarily sold on national or regional stock exchanges
where the company has not done business with the city for the past five years
and is not reasonably expected to do business with the city in the next three
years.
   Person Having Interest Business Name and Address Other
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
 
IV. SCHEDULE C: STATEMENT OF BUSINESS INTERESTS OUTSIDE OF STATE
   Please list the name and address of any business located outside of the
state, if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city
during the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more (Item 6). Do
not list stock or bond ownership of stocks and bonds listed and customarily
sold on national or regional stock exchanges where the company has not done
business with the city for the past five years and is not reasonably expected
to do business with the city in the next three years.
 
   Person Having Interest Business Name and Address Other
1.
2.
3.
 
V. SCHEDULE D: REAL ESTATE OWNED WITHIN JEFFERSON COUNTY, KENTUCKY
   Please designate as either commercial, residential or rural and the location
of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more (Item 7).
   Person Having Interest Location of Real Estate Type , i.e., Residential,
                                                  Commercial or Rural
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
 
VI. SCHEDULE E: STATEMENT OF GIFTS OR HONORARIA
   Please list each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $200 or more, from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year (Item 8). Do not
list gifts from sources which have not done any business with the city in the
past five years and is not reasonably expected to do business with the city in
the next three years.
 
   Recipient Source Other
1.
2.
3.
 
VII. SCHEDULE F: CREDITOR LIST
   Please list the name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000,
except debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase
of consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for person, family or
household purposes (Item 9).
   Debtor Creditor Other
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
 
(Ord. 94-08, passed 12-28-1994)
CHAPTER 39: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
39.01   Definitions
   
39.02   Creation and membership
   
39.03   Powers
   
39.04   Organization; meetings
   
39.05   Conflict of interest
   
39.06   Jurisdiction; powers
   
39.07   Enforcement proceedings
   
39.08   Hearing, notice and final order
   
39.09   Legal counsel
   
39.10   Appeals; final judgment
   
39.11   Ordinance fine schedule
   
39.12   Lien, fines, charges and fees
§ 39.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act and perform and
enforce the duties of a Code Enforcement Board.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, administrative officer, alcohol beverage control officer or other
public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a citation, for the
city.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of a local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the City
Commission which embodies all or part of an ordinance, for the city.
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 39.02 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby created pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS 65.8839 within
the city, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of no fewer than
three members, all of whom shall be at least 21 years of age and a resident of
the city (or cities, where others have joined a Joint Code Enforcement Board
through Interlocal Cooperation Agreement) for a period of at least one year
prior to the person's appointment as a member of the Board, and shall reside
there throughout the term in office.
   (B)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed and approved
by the City of Middletown Commission.
   (C)   Appointments of members to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third of the membership of the Board shall be appointed for a
term of one year;
      (2)   One-third of the membership shall be appointed for a term of two
years; and
      (3)   One-third of the membership shall be appointed for a term of three
years. All subsequent appointments shall be made for a term of three years.
   (D)   The Commission may appoint, subject to the approval of the Commission,
two alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board in the absence of
regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the qualifications and
shall be subject to all of the requirements that apply to regular members of
the Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the Commission, subject to
approval of the Commission within 60 days of the vacancy. If the vacancy is not
filled within that time period, the remaining Code Board members shall fill the
vacancy.
   (F)   Any member of a Code Enforcement Board may be removed by the
appointing authority for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty.
Any appointing authority who exercises the power to remove a member of a Code
Enforcement Board shall submit a written statement to the member and to the
Commission setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall
have the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board must, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses and compensated in the amount of $25 per meeting.
   (I)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board may hold any elected or non-
elected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 39.03 POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance the violation of which constitutes an offense under any provision of
the Kentucky Revised Statutes, including specifically, any provision of the
Kentucky Penal Code and any moving motor vehicle offense.
   (C)   This power may be extended to other cities which have entered into an
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to perform and enforce the duties of a Code
Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 39.04 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from among its
members. The Chairman shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member
of the Board.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on
the______ day of every month at the hour of______. Meetings other than those
regularly scheduled shall be special meetings held in accordance with the
requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act. If there is no business to come
before the Board, the Chairman may cancel the meeting.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held
in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and the Kentucky Open
Meetings Act.
   (D)   The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Board shall be
necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 39.05 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board, who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided, shall disclose the
nature of the interest and shall disqualify himself from voting on the matter
in which he has an interest and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 39.06 JURISDICTION; POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have jurisdiction to enforce and
shall enforce those city ordinances and code provisions which specifically
provide for Code Board Enforcement within the city. The Code Enforcement Board
shall also have jurisdiction to review and hear appeals from the enforcement
actions of the Local Alcohol Beverage Control (ABC) Officer for enforcement
under the City of Middletown Ordinance Chapter 113; as well as KRS Chapters 241
through 244; including suspensions and revocation of licenses under KRS 243.480
and KRS 243.490. In all such ABC cases, the Code Enforcement Board's action
shall be a detailed finding of fact and recommendation to the Local Alcohol
Beverage Control Administrator, who may adopt, modify or reject said
recommendation and issue the final order. The final order of the Local ABC
Administrator may be appealed to the state ABC Board, as set out in KRS
Chapters 241 through 244.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings.
      (2)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of
an ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
      (3)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its
hearings. Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any
Code Enforcement Officer.
      (4)   To take testimony under oath. The Chairman shall have the authority
to administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
      (5)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
      (6)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 39.07 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board shall only
be initiated by the issuance of a citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, if a Code Enforcement
Officer believes, based on his personal observation or investigation, that a
person has violated a city ordinance he shall issue a notice of violation to
the offender allowing the offender a specified period of time to remedy the
violation without fine. If the offender fails or refuses to remedy the
violations within the time specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is
authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe
that the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (4)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (5)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (6)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (7)   The civil fine imposed for the violation if the person does not
contest the citation;
      (8)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person in order to pay the civil fine or to
contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation, within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation and that the determination that the
violation was committed shall be final.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the City Clerk.
   (F)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board to
contest the citation. If the person fails to respond to the citation within
seven days, the person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing
and the determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final.
   (G)   If the alleged violator does not contest the citation within the time
prescribed, the Code Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and impose the civil fine set forth in the
citation. A copy of the final order shall be served on the person guilty of the
violation.
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 39.08 HEARING, NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted within 14 days of the
request, unless the requester wants or agrees to a continuance not to exceed 14
additional days.
   (B)   Not less than seven days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by certified mail, return receipt
requested; by personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual
place of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age
or older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (C)   Any person requesting a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board who
fails to appear at the time and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to
have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be final. The Code
Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining the violation as
committed and shall impose the civil fine set forth in the citation. A copy of
the final order shall be served upon the person guilty of the violation.
   (D)   All testimony shall be taken under oath and recorded. Testimony shall
be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged violator, and any
witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement Officer or alleged
violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process
shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it determines that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it determines
that a violation was committed, an order shall be issued upholding the citation
and either imposing a fine up to the maximum authorized by this or other
ordinance or requiring the offender remedy a continuing violation, or both.
   (F)   Every final order of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the date the order was issued. A copy shall be
furnished to the person named in the citation. The person named in the citation
may ask the Middletown City Commission (or the governing body of any city which
has in place an Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to perform and enforce the
duties of a Code Enforcement Board) for reconsideration of the final order.
Such request for reconsideration must be in writing and filed with the City
Clerk (of the city in which the violation occurred) within seven days of the
date of the final order of the Code Enforcement Board. The city governing body
may (but is not required to) review and entertain such Request for
Reconsideration and may, affirm, modify, revise, amend, or dismiss any final
order of the Code Enforcement Board. The request for reconsideration does not
extend any other time period to appeal the final order of the Code Enforcement
Board. If the person named in the citation is not present when the final order
is issued, the order shall be delivered in accordance with the procedures set
forth in division (B) above.
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 39.09 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city or by a Code Enforcement Officer for the city.
The City Attorney may either be counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may
present cases before the Code Enforcement Board, but in no case serve in both
capacities.
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 39.10 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order of the Code Enforcement Board may be
taken to the Jefferson County District Court within 30 days of the date the
order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and
a copy of the Code Enforcement Board's order in the same manner as any civil
action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure. ABC cases may only be
appealed to the State ABC Board as set out in KRS Chapters 241 through 244.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement Board's
order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 39.11 ORDINANCE FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the Code Enforcement Board
shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines.
   (A)   If a citation for a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the
person charged with the violation, the penalties set forth in this division
shall apply; however, the Board may waive all or any portion of a penalty for
an uncontested violation, if in its discretion, the Board determines that such
waiver will promote compliance with the ordinance in issue.
Violation First Offense Second Offense All Others
Violation             First Offense Second Offense All Others
Animals               $25           $50            $100
Building codes        $100          $125           $150
Nuisance              $10           $25            $50
Licensing             $50           $75            $100
Signage               $10           $25            $50
Littering             $10           $25            $50
Parking               $10           $25            $50
Streets and sidewalks $10           $25            $50
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Board is
required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion of
the Code Board:
Violation First Offense Second Offense All Others
Violation             First Offense Second Offense All Others
Animals               $100          $200           $300
Building codes        $500          $750           $1,000
Nuisance              $75           $150           $250
Licensing             $500          $750           $1,000
Signage               $50           $100           $700
Littering             $50           $100           $200
Parking               $50           $100           $200
Streets and sidewalks $50           $100           $200
 
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 39.12 LIEN, FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   If the Code Enforcement Board does find that there is a violation of
the city ordinances, the Code Enforcement Board shall have the discretion to
require compliance, in addition to the fines set out in §
39.11 above. In addition, it is within the discretion of the Code Enforcement
Board to find that each day of non-compliance after said finding will
constitute the imposition of another fine for each day's violation, up to the
following maximums. On a first violation, the maximum total fine for each
person cited is $1,000. On a second violation, the maximum total fine for each
person cited is $2,000. On a third violation, the maximum total fine for each
person cited is $3,000.
   (B)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a final, non-appealable order of the Code Enforcement Board, or by a final
judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a city ordinance for
all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by
the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance.
   (C)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid.
   (D)   The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens; except
state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
   (E)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A), the person found
to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount
of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred
by the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may
bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same remedies as
provided for the recovery of a debt.
   (F)   The only penalties which may be considered under ABC cases are those
found in KRS Chapters 241 through 244; including license suspension and
revocation under KRS 243.480 and KRS 243.490.
(Ord. 08-13-15-B, passed 9-10-2015)
CHAPTER 40: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
40.01   Establishment
   
40.02   Officer duties, compensation, appointment
   
40.03   Oversight and operational control
§ 40.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Middletown Police Department is hereby established for the purpose
of protecting the health, welfare and property of all persons in the city. The
Middletown Police Department is not subject to any civil service plan under
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (B)   The Office of Police Chief is hereby created. The job duties of the
Chief of Police shall be those contained in the Standard Operating Procedures
Manual, but at a minimum the Chief shall, plan, organize, direct, coordinate,
and evaluate all activities and programs of the Police Department to provide
police services for the city; formulate and implement departmental policies,
procedures and rules and regulations, fully adhere to §
34.60 et seq., insure that all department reports, citations and other
documents are accurately prepared and maintained on all police activities;
insure the proper use of police cruisers and other departmental equipment;
prepare and authorize work schedules; receive complaints from the public;
patrol the city on regular scheduled shifts; maintain proper record system
pertaining to all reports, correspondence and citations; participate in re-
certification courses and schedule subordinates for training; assist outside
agencies in emergency situations, make sure that all filings and certifications
for the department and all officers are kept current and up to date, and
perform additional duties as required.
   (C)   The Police Department shall consist of as many police officers as the
city determines is necessary to accomplish the department's purpose. Officers
shall have and possess all powers conferred upon them by statute of the
Commonwealth or ordinance of this city.
   (D)   Jurisdiction of the department shall be limited to the incorporated
area of the city, except where countywide jurisdiction is conferred by a
statute of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 12-14-17-A, passed 12-20-2017)
§ 40.02 OFFICER DUTIES, COMPENSATION, APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Duties. Police officers shall enforce the provisions of all statutes
and ordinances; arrest and/or issue citations to violators thereof; maintain
records; prepare necessary reports; serve writs, summonses and other processes;
act as conservators of the peace; comply with all standards set out in the
Standard Operating Procedures Manual.
      (1)   Police operations shall be conducted by properly trained and
certified police officers only and it shall be the continuing duty of the
Police Chief to insure that a full background check has been done of all
potential new hires to insure they have the required training, qualifications
and certification to be police officers under Kentucky law and that they are
additionally certified under the Peace Officers Professional Standards Act
(POPS).
      (2)   No routine, regular police operations shall be conducted outside
the city boundaries of the city without the approval of the Police Chief,
except: city officers may assist/backup other police or law enforcement
agencies outside the city limits in the event of an emergency.
      (3)   No outside patrols or security services may be performed by any
member of the Police Department unless and until a prior written authorization
for such work is approved at least 24 hours in advance of said event by the
Chief of Police. The Mayor must approve any off-duty work of the Chief of
Police. The Mayor may also reverse any off-duty approval he or she believes to
be detrimental to the city.
   (B)   Compensation.
      (1)   Police officers shall be compensated at the rate set forth by the
city's pay classification ordinance.
      (2)   The compensation may be adjusted only by a municipal order adopted
by the City Commission, pursuant to a budget ordinance or amendment.
      (3)   No adjustment or sum of adjustments may exceed 10% in a given
fiscal year.
   (C)   Appointment.
      (1)   Police officers shall be appointed by the Police Chief with the
consent and approval of the Mayor, If the Police Chief and Mayor are not able
to agree on an appointment, the matter will be decided by the City Commission.
      (2)   Upon Appointment and before the commencement of service each police
officer shall be administered an oath of office consistent with Section 228 of
the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky; and shall pledge to
faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office.
      (3)   Applicants are required to fill out an application for employment,
providing prescribed background information which will be verified by the Chief
of Police or his or her designated representative.
      (4)   Newly-hired police officers will be hired on a probationary basis
for a period of six months. During this period, officers may be terminated
without cause or with cause.
(Ord. 12-14-17-A, passed 12-20-2017)
§ 40.03 OVERSIGHT AND OPERATIONAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The executive authority of the city is vested in and excised solely by
the Commission. However, in accordance with KRS 83A.140 and §
32.04 , the Commission hereby assigns oversight authority over the Police
Department to the Mayor of the city. The Personnel Policies in
Chapter 37  shall also apply to all members of the Police Department.
   (B)   Chief of Police shall promulgate standard operating procedures to
insure the orderly administration of the functions of the City Police
Department, but these standard operating procedures must be approved by with
the advice and consent of the Mayor, as well as any and all changes or
revisions thereto.
   (C)   The Police Chief shall require each officer to complete and submit to
the Chief a daily activity sheet. Each month, the Police Chief shall make a
written report to the Commission and the Mayor at the regular Commission
meeting concerning the activities of the Police Department, the budget and
operation of the Police Department. This report shall include the information
concerning all citations and warnings issued and runs made by the Police
Department in the last month. The Chief shall also inform the Mayor as soon as
possible of any significant issues in the past month concerning the actions of
any member of the police force which may be the basis of a complaint against
any member of the Police Department.
   (D)   The Chief of Police of the Middletown Police Department is responsible
for the day to day operation of the Police Department and the scheduling of
officers assigned to the Police Department, subject to the direction of the
Mayor as to what must be covered, whether it's a specific event, or whether
it's a specific time period.
   (E)   The Chief of Police has the authority and responsibility for the
allocation, care and maintenance of the equipment of the Middletown Police
Department, according to city ordinance, state law and the city's standard
operating procedures. The Chief of Police must keep and maintain an updated
full inventory of all equipment of the Police Department, which shall be
reviewed at least annually through the police budget approval process.
   (F)   The Chief of Police is responsible to provide for the day to day
operations of the Police Department. The Mayor and City Commission are entitled
to a full accounting as to how police budgeted funds are spent and the Police
Department shall adhere to §
34.60 et seq.
   (G)   Prior to May 1 of each year, the Chief of Police will submit to the
Mayor a proposed budget to fund all aspects of the Police Department for the
fiscal year starting July 1 and ending June 31. This proposed police budget
will include specific, line item requests for each and every resource necessary
to run the Police Department, including a request for man-hours for each
officer for the upcoming year and each member's rate of pay (including the
Chief). The Police Chief’s entire budget proposal will then be submitted to the
City Commission for its consideration, modification, approval or rejection
according to its authority under Kentucky law.
(Ord. 12-14-17-A, passed 12-20-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Hours of collection
   
50.02   Definition
   
50.03   Registered owner
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 HOURS OF COLLECTION.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity of garbage collection,
including dumpster type collection, within the city between the hours of 8:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-5-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE COLLECTION. Any of the following activities:
      (1)   Emptying of garbage cans into a garbage collection truck;
      (2)   Loading, unloading, maneuvering, positioning or emptying a dumpster
or similar type container; and/or
      (3)   Using a garbage collection truck to compact garbage by any process.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-5-2004)
§ 50.03 REGISTERED OWNER.
   The registered owner of a garbage collection truck being used in violation
of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence of ownership of the vehicle and
the identity of the person, firm and/or entity violating this chapter.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-5-2004)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500 for each
offense and each collection container so collected in violation of this chapter
shall be deemed a separate offense, and each day on which an offense occurs
shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense for which a separate fine may
be levied.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in an amount equal to the minimum fine prescribed by division (A)
above. The civil penalty may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within 20 days after
the offender has been cited for the ordinance violation. The civil penalty may
be used as an alternative to or in conjunction with the criminal penalties
authorized in division (A) above.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 2-5-2004)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between two
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not
one street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the City
Commission.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the City
Commission and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in a manner as to proceed in
the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the City Commission or any authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks.
If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two
weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal or any commercial advertising. Nothing in
this section shall be construed as restricting any public department or public
utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting
any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U-turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limits
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.36   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.37   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades and Public Assemblies
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Permit required
   
71.52   Application for permit
   
71.53   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.54   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.55   Appeals
   
71.56   Alternative permit
   
71.57   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.58   Contents of permit
   
71.59   Duties of permittee
   
71.60   Public conduct during parades
   
71.61   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in a manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U-TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless the movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in a manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive
the vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk,
or its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.
      (2)   On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
      (3)   The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street not
maintained by the state or the county within the city at a speed in excess of
25 mph, or in an alley at a speed in excess of 15 mph.
   (B)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on any street or highway
within the city maintained by the state and/or the county at a speed exceeding
that lawfully set for that street.
(Ord. 6, Series 1985, passed 8-1-1985)
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident, in which any person is injured or
property damaged, to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render any assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Accident involving death or serious injury; penalty for not reporting, see
KRS 189.990
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with and operating
one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights visible under
normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle; or
when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle or bell, the
driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, immediately drive
to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the edge or curb of the
highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain in that position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police
officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep that position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway or track for use at any fire alarm unless the fire department
official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall either, while
proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES AND PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
§ 71.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any PARADE, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.51 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall participate or take part in, promote, organize, form,
hold or assist in organizing any parade or public assembly within The City of
Middletown, Kentucky unless a permit has been obtained from the City of
Middletown Commission.
   (B)   The City of Middletown Commission shall issue a permit in all cases
except where the time, place and manner are not in conformity with the rules
and restrictions set forth below and except where the permit would conflict as
to time or place with a permit previously issued.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to, and no parade or public assembly
permit is required for the following activities:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Picket lines which do not interfere with the normal flow of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic, including emergency vehicles;
      (3)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (4)   A spontaneous public assembly occasioned by news or events coming
into public knowledge within two days of the public assembly, provided that the
organizer(s), if any, thereof gives written notice to the Licensing and Permit
Division designee 24 hours prior to such a public assembly.
(Ord. 04-11, passed 7-14-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.52 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit or a public assembly
permit shall file an application with the City of Middletown in a manner
specified by the City of Middletown on forms provided by the City of Middletown
for that purpose. Every applicant shall be furnished information about the
requirements of this chapter with a copy of this chapter with the application
form. A copy of this chapter shall be kept on file with the City of Middletown.
   (B)   An application for a parade permit or a public assembly permit shall
be filed with the City of Middletown not less than five days nor more than 90
days before the date on which the parade or public assembly is proposed to take
place. Provided, however, that any parade or public assembly with an
anticipated involvement of 500 or more persons shall file the application not
less than 30 business days nor more than 90 days before the date on which the
parade or public assembly is proposed to take place.
   (C)   An applicant for a parade permit or a public assembly permit shall
submit the following information. An application for a parade permit or a
public assembly permit shall be filed with the Licensing and Permit Division
designee.
      (1)   The full name, address, and contact number(s) of the person(s)
seeking to conduct the parade or public assembly;
      (2)   If the parade or public assembly is proposed to be conducted for,
on behalf of, or by an organization, the name, address, and contact number(s)
of the principal office of the organization and of the officers of the
organization authorized to apply for the permit;
      (3)   The name, address, and contact number of any officer or
representative of the applicant, other than the applicant, who will be
responsible for the conduct of the parade or public assembly;
      (4)   The date when the parade or public assembly is to be conducted;
      (5)   The location of the public assembly or the route to be traveled by
the parade, including its starting point and its termination point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles; or the approximate number of persons who will participate in the
public assembly;
      (7)   The hours when the parade or public assembly will start and
terminate;
      (8)   If the parade or public assembly will involve 500 or more persons,
a statement as to whether the parade or public assembly will occupy all or any
a portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public area
proposed to be utilized or traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for a parade;
      (10)   The day and time at which units of the parade will begin to
assemble at any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   A map showing the route of the parade and any traffic detours
that, to the knowledge of the applicant, will be needed to facilitate the
parade route;
      (13)   The proposed ending time for the parade.
   (D)   The application for a parade permit may contain a request for a waiver
of the restrictions as to materials used in signs, posters, banners, or plaques
to be used in a parade. The request shall state the specific grounds for the
waiver, and the specific modifications sought by the applicant. The City of
Middletown shall grant the waiver only upon a showing of good cause and
necessity for the waiver.
   (E)   The application form shall contain a statement, which the applicant
shall sign, that:
      (1)   The applicant has received and read and understood a copy of this
chapter; and
      (2)   The applicant understands that a permit, if issued, may be revoked
for failure to comply with any of the terms or conditions contained in the
permit, or for a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter; and
      (3)   The applicant acknowledges that a permit may be denied or revoked
on the grounds of material false statements made in the application.
   (F)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a permit
a fee as set by the City of Middletown Commission from time to time.
   (G)   The City of Middletown shall furnish a copy of the application to the
any Police Department, and to any Fire District, or Emergency Service including
Metro Emergency Management Services whose jurisdiction would be affected by the
parade or public assembly, with a request to review the application and to
promptly notify the City of Middletown of any circumstance which would affect
the granting or denial of the permit.
(Ord. 04-11, passed 7-14-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City of Middletown shall issue a permit unless, from consideration of
the application the City of Middletown Commission finds and concludes that one
or more of the following circumstances exist:
   (A)   The sole purpose of the parade or public assembly is advertising any
product, goods, wares, merchandise or event and is designed to be held for
private profit; or
   (B)   The time, route and size of the parade will substantially disrupt the
use of any street or any public place or will substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic, including emergency traffic, contiguous
to its route; or
   (C)   The parade is of a size or nature that its conduct requires the
diversion of so great a number of police officers to properly police the line
of movement and the area contiguous thereto that allowing the parade would deny
reasonable police protection to City of Middletown; or
   (D)   The parade or public assembly is of a size and nature that its conduct
would interfere with the proper fire and police protection or ambulance service
to the areas contiguous thereto, or would interfere with the movement of
ambulances or police or fire vehicles and equipment, or other similar emergency
vehicles or equipment.
(Ord. 04-11, passed 7-14-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The City of Middletown shall act on the application for a permit
within ten business days after the filing thereof. If the City of Middletown
denies the application, in whole or in part, the city shall immediately notify
the applicant by telephone, followed by written notice by U.S. mail, or
electronic mail, which notice shall state the reason(s) for denial of the
permit or any part thereof.
   (B)   The notice of denial shall include an alternative proposal, if any,
made under.
   (C)   The notice of denial shall advise the applicant of his or her or its
rights to appeal the decision to the full City Commission at its next regular
City Commission meeting, or a meeting specially called to consider the appeal.
(Ord. 04-11, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 71.55 APPEALS.
   An appeal of the City of Middletown’s denial or revocation of a permit, in
whole or in part, may be made to the City of Middletown Commission within three
business days after the City of Middletown’s determination to revoke or deny a
permit. The appeal will be heard by the full City of Middletown Commission at
its next regular or specially called commission meeting, at which the applicant
may present any and all evidence to support its permit application.
(Ord. 04-11, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 71.56 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Commission or any authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit
under this subchapter.
§ 71.57 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The City Commission;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Police Chief and the Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.58 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting date, time, and duration of the parade or public assembly;
   (B)   Minimum speed (for a parade);
   (C)   Maximum speed (for a parade);
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of a
parade;
   (E)   The portions of any public way, sidewalk, park or public area to be
traversed, utilized, or occupied;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as the City of Middletown shall find helpful,
informative, or necessary to the enforcement of this chapter;
   (H)   A printed notice that any violation of the express terms and
conditions of the permit, or of any provision of this chapter will constitute
grounds for revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 04-11, passed 7-14-2011) Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.59 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee shall comply with all terms and conditions set forth in a
permit, with the provisions of this chapter, and with all other applicable laws
and ordinances. The permittee or designated officer or representative of the
permittee who is responsible for the conduct of the parade or public assembly
shall carry the permit on his or her person during the entire duration of the
parade or public assembly.
(Ord. 04-11, passed 7-14-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.60 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.61 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city may revoke a permit issued hereunder only on any of the following
grounds:
   (A)   The applicant has made a material false statement or representation to
the city in connection with an application for a permit. For purposes of this
section, a false statement or representation shall include, but not be limited
to, a material omission.
   (B)   The applicant has failed to comply with any of the terms and
conditions of the permit, or with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Where revocation of the permit is clearly necessary to ensure public
safety, order, or welfare.
(Ord. 04-11, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.36 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $60 nor
more than $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more than 30 days,
or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with disabled permits
   
72.13   Fire lane
   
72.14   Handicapped parking
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   Required notice to owner
   
72.27   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS 65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction or hindrance in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading; provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. This backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway by moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the centerline of any street. The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   On an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
(KRS 189.450(5))
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(6))
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets or parking areas are restricted
to disabled parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice thereof.
However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction therewith, the face
and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is prohibited at all
times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the signs
have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the time
of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions which
by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall
provide suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting
parking on that particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop on any
street so designated.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §§
72.25 through
72.27
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The City Commission or any authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of the signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.50 through
71.61
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.27.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that an unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the
owner’s expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on
any section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway.
   (B)   However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH DISABLED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for disabled persons, when operated by a disabled
person or when transporting a disabled person, may be parked in a designated
disabled parking place, or when parked in a metered parking space may be parked
for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking limit is imposed may
be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may
be parked in a loading zone for that period of time necessary to permit
entrance or exit of the disabled person to or from the parked vehicle, but in
no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “No Stopping” or “No
Parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in a manner as to constitute a
traffic hazard.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 FIRE LANE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to park a motor vehicle
or obstruct any part of a roadway designated as a “fire lane”. Each such fire
lane shall be designated as such by a sign conspicuously posted.
   (B)   Any vehicle parking in violation of this section may, in addition to
any other penalty provided in this chapter, be towed away at the expense of the
violator upon the order of any Fire Department officer or any peace officer of
the city.
(Ord. 03-08-18-D, passed 4-12-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle which is being operated by or for the benefit of
a handicapped person is displaying an automobile registration plate as provided
in KRS 186.042, an out-of-state handicapped registration plate, a handicapped
parking permit issued by any veterans’ administration hospital or a special
parking permit issued to a handicapped person as prescribed in KRS 189.460, the
motor vehicle may be parked in a designated handicapped parking place.
   (B)   No person shall park in a designated handicapped parking area in a
motor vehicle not displaying either a handicapped automobile registration plate
as provided in KRS 186.042 or an out-of-state handicapped registration plate on
the rear of the vehicle unless he or she displays on the rear-view mirror of
his or her motor vehicle a special parking permit issued to the handicapped. No
person shall park a vehicle displaying a special parking permit in a designated
handicapped parking area when such vehicle is not being used for the benefit of
a handicapped person.
(Ord. 03-08-18-D, passed 4-12-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers, or City Citation Officer, are empowered to
authorize the impoundment of a vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances
after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
(Ord. 14-7, passed 6-12-2014)
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Refer to KRS 376.275.
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles
who has complied with notification requirements laid out in state law shall
have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in KRS
376.275(2) for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance
with KRS 376.275(5) and (8) as long as it remains in his or her possession.
   (B)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 376.275(5) and (8) have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except in set forth in KRS 376.275(2), may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in state law, ten days prior to
the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. This lien shall be subject to prior recorded
liens, unless released by any existing lienholder pursuant to this division
(B).
(KRS 376.275(1))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever it is found on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, the Commission or
city official is authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at
a time specified by him, her or it. After the effective time of the
prohibition, no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain
parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing
rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the City Commission or
any authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking
on snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle
parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following
the fall. The prohibition of parking announced by the City Commission or any
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until the Commission or city official announces the termination of the
snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking
authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the City Commission or any authorized city official shall find that
some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition
no longer exist, the Commission or city official is authorized to declare the
termination of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on
announcement. If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:
00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the
City Commission or any authorized city official.
   (B)   On a street or highway designated as a snow emergency route, special
signs shall be posted to this effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
    (A)   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount
not less than $20 nor more than $100 for each offense. Middletown Police
Officers are hereby empowered to issue civil citations (parking tickets) for
any violation of this chapter. The city shall promulgate a schedule of fines
for each specific violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Impoundment of vehicles.
      (1)   In addition to any fine imposed, any vehicle abandoned or illegally
parked on the public ways may be removed at the direction of the Chief of
Police or his or her designated agent to a tow lot designated by the city. The
vehicle may be reclaimed by the owner at the owner’s expense including all
towing and storage charges and payment of all fines imposed by the city. The
Chief of Police or his or her designated agent shall release a vehicle to its
legal owner without fine if it has been determined by the city police that the
vehicle was stolen,
      (2)   In addition to the penalties levied for the parking violations, the
city hereby imposes towing, holding, and storage charges upon such impounded
vehicle. In the event the condition of the vehicle or circumstances of the tow
requires the employment of extraordinary services or equipment, the reasonable
charges of the towing operator, as approved by the Chief of Police, for such
shall be added to the fee. Release of an impounded vehicle is conditioned upon
the payment of the penalty levied for the parking, violations and/or the
towing, holding, and storage charges imposed thereon.
      (3)   Any vehicle remaining in the possession of the contracted tow lot
to which it has been delivered and with which it has remained for a period of
60 days without being reclaimed by the rightful owner thereof, and without the
payment of the towing and storage charges thereon, may after authorization of
the Chief of Police or his or her designated agent, be sold to pay the towing
and storage. The advertisement of the proposed sale shall be published as set
forth in KRS 424.130. The last advertisement shall be made at least seven days
before sale is held. Notice of sale shall be sent by registered mail to the
owner of the motor vehicle, and to any other person known to have any interest
therein, addressed to the person at their last known address at least ten days
before the sale is held.
   (C)   Appeal. The citation as notice of the parking violation represents a
determination that a violation has been committed, and such determination shall
be final unless contested to the Code Enforcement Board, under the procedure
set out in
Chapter 39 of the City of Middletown Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 03-08-18-D, passed 4-12-2018)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on the bicycle
unless such person is riding in a seat that was manufactured and designed to
convey them as a passenger or secondary operator of the bicycle and such person
is in full compliance with the manufacturer’s installation and operation
instructions.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles; safety regulations and standards, see KRS 189.287
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a sidecar
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate the vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any kind
to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   [Reserved]
SCHEDULE I. [RESERVED].
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   RESERVED
      
96.   CEMETERY
      
97.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
98.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Torture of dogs or cats
   
90.05   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.06   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.07   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   License required
   
90.22   Registration and issuance of license
   
90.23   License tag to be attached to dog
   
90.24   Dogs running at large
   
90.25   Noise disturbance
   
90.26   Impoundment
   
90.27   Reclaiming impounded dog
   
90.28   Restricting dogs on city property during city events
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent.
(KRS 257.010)
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by the animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in KRS 525.125 in
causing it to fight for pleasure or profit (including, but not limited to,
being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal is caused to
fight for pleasure or profit), mutilation, beating, torturing any animal other
than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space
or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the United States Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Cross-reference:
   Torture of dogs or cats, see §
90.04
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 TORTURE OF DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires,
TORTURE means the intentional infliction of or subjection to extreme physical
pain or injury, motivated by an intent to increase or prolong the pain of the
animal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of torture of a dog or cat when he or she without
legal justification intentionally tortures a domestic dog or cat.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing or injuring of a
dog or cat:
      (1)   In accordance with a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   For humane purposes;
      (3)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering or cosmetic
purposes;
      (4)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, training for organized dog or cat shows or other animal shows in
which a dog or a cat or both, participate;
      (5)   For bona fide animal research activities, using dogs or cats, of
institutions of higher education; or a business entity registered with the
United States Department of Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject
to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (6)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased dog or cat;
      (7)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
dog or cat;
      (8)   For animal or pest control; or
      (9)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
   (D)   Activities of animals engaged in hunting, field trials, dog training
other than training a dog to fight for pleasure or profit, and other activities
authorized either by a hunting license or by the Department of Fish and
Wildlife Resources shall not constitute a violation of this section.
   (E)   The acts specified in this section shall not constitute cruelty to
animals under KRS 525.125 or 525.130.
(KRS 525.135) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Torture of dogs and cats resulting in physical injury, second and subsequent
offenses, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.135
   Torture of dogs and cats resulting in serious physical injury or death, a
Class D felony, see KRS 525.135
§ 90.05 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer or any person authorized by
the Board may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
(KRS 257.100(1))
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian or of two reputable citizens called by him or her
to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
(KRS 257.100(2))
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or his
or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100(3))
   (D)   Abandonment shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and
claims by the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
§ 90.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog or dogs in the city
without first obtaining a license for each dog. This section and §
90.27 shall not apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within
the city for a period less than 30 days.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 REGISTRATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs kept in the city shall be registered as to sex, breed, name
and address of the owner and name of the dog. At the time of the registration
the owner shall obtain a license tag for the dog and shall pay a fee as
established by City Commission for each dog.
   (B)   The license tag shall be valid for one year from the date of issue. A
new tag shall be obtained each year by every owner and a new fee paid.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 LICENSE TAG TO BE ATTACHED TO DOG.
   The license tag shall be fastened to the collar of the dog and shall be worn
continuously, and the failure to have the tag so attached shall subject the
owner or keeper thereof to the penalties provided herein.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground or on any other public or private property.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of a character, intensity and duration as to disturb the
peace, quiet and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or more
separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain,
be lodged or fed within any dwelling, yard or enclosure which he or she
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter and any unlicensed dog in the city, and to impound the dog or have the
dog impounded in the appropriate place.
§ 90.27 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.28 RESTRICTING DOGS ON CITY PROPERTY DURING CITY EVENTS.
   (A)   No pets are allowed during city events, including, but not limited to,
the summer concerts.
   (B)   This does not apply to service animals.
(Mun. Order 09-20, passed 8-13-2009)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor for the first offense if the dog
or cat suffers physical injury as a result of the torture.
(KRS 525.135)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
90.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.001   Permit required for work or connection to right-of-way
   
91.002   Application and cash deposit
   
91.003   Standards for issuance
   
91.004   Appeal
   
91.005   Warning lights
   
91.006   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.020   Public hearing required
   
91.021   Notice requirements; public may testify
   
91.022   Effect of testimony
   
91.023   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.024   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.025   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.040   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.041   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.042   Materials on street or sidewalk
Regulation of Benches
   
91.055   Regulation of benches
   
91.056   Application for permit
   
91.057   Issuance of a permit
   
91.058   Maintenance
   
91.059   Insurance
Registration of Pavement, Sidewalk and Public Rights-of-Way Cuts and
Restoration
   
91.070   Definitions
   
91.071   Time for registration
   
91.072   Restoration
Sidewalk Maintenance
   
91.085   Reserved
   
91.086   Reserved
   
91.087   Snow, ice and weeds
   
91.088   Removal of litter
   
91.089   Damage to sidewalk
Addresses
   
91.105   Standards of compliance
   
91.106   Enforcement
Speed Humps
   
91.120   Definitions
   
91.121   Eligibility requirements
   
91.122   Speed hump removal and alteration
   
91.123   Speed hump location
   
91.124   Design standards and procedures
   
91.125   Procedures for speed hump installation
 
   
91.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parades and public assemblies, see §
71.50 et seq.
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.001 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR WORK OR CONNECTION TO RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No person, company, or entity (including utilities), shall, without first
obtaining an encroachment permit from the City of Middletown:
   (A)   Begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, cut, excavate, connect onto,
or alter, any City of Middletown public right-of-way, or structure located
therein.
   (B)   Exception for emergency work by utility. In an emergency, any public
utility is allowed to work in the City of Middletown right-of-way, as long as
the encroachment permit application required herein is filed within 48 hours of
the commencement of work.
(Ord. 07-09-20-A, passed 8-13-2020) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.002 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
    The city shall provide forms identifying the information required for
application for an encroachment permit (along with an application fee) and such
other information deemed necessary in the administration of this subchapter,
providing, however, that a utility company may devise its own form, if the form
contains all of the information called for in the city form. The application
may be mailed or delivered to the city, or sent by facsimile/e-mail and shall
contain at a minimum:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of the entity for whose benefit the
work is proposed.
   (B)   Name, address and telephone number of the person who is doing the
actual work.
   (C)   Description of the proposed work, including construction detail,
location, and when the work will begin and when it is projected to be
completed.
(Ord. 07-09-20-A, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 91.003 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   Standards for issuance opening or connection permit:
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement, or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official and in accordance with the rules, regulations and specifications of
the city, including the City of Middletown Public Works and Assets Policy.
   (B)   The city shall require any person or entity requesting an encroachment
permit, to post a performance bond prior to initiating any work in the city, by
cash or certified check. The amount of the bond shall be that amount that the
city determines would be sufficient to fully repair any damages to the right-
of-way caused by the proposed encroachment, if the applicant fails in its
responsibility to fully restore the right-of-way as set out herein and in the
City of Middletown Public Works and Assets Policy. Upon successful completion
of the project, the permittee shall request an inspection by the city and the
bond shall be released if the city is satisfied that the restoration is
complete.
   (C)   All work must be conducted in compliance with the City of Middletown
Public Works and Assets Policy and shall not unreasonably interfere with
vehicular and pedestrian traffic, the demand and necessity for parking space
and the means of egress to and from the property affected and adjacent
properties. Excavations or openings shall be fully barricaded at all times to
prevent injury to persons or animals. Excavation or openings obstructing any
street, sidewalk or alley way shall be adequately lighted at night to prevent
injuries.
   (D)   If the applicant or application proposes a new vehicular connection
(or proposes an alteration of an existing vehicular connection), onto
Middletown right-of-way, added scrutiny and findings must be part of the city's
encroachment permit determination, including the following objective,
measurable criteria:
      (1)   Whether the parcel(s) benefitted by the connection has other,
reasonable vehicular access through other access points and the extent to which
the applicant would be adversely affected by denial of the encroachment permit.
      (2)   Whether, after review of the following criteria, city services or
safety will be adversely affected by approval of the new or altered connection.
      (3)   Whether the connection would allow an area with higher traffic
generation, or intensity of use, or which has a higher zoning classification,
to connect through areas of lesser intensity traffic generation, or intensity
of use, or lesser zoning classification.
      (4)   Whether the connection is through roadways which have many
residential driveway cuts and the city finds that the connection would create
an unreasonable amount of conflicting traffic interactions between through
traffic and vehicles exiting and entering residential driveways.
      (5)   Whether the roadway connection is onto a roadway with inadequate
pavement width; inadequate right-of-way for future improvements; no or few
sidewalks; heavy on-street parking usage; deteriorating or failing pavement or
road base; insufficient or damaged roadside drainage facilities.
      (6)   Whether the applicant is proposing adequate mitigation of any
impacts.
      (7)   The city may require the applicant to study the traffic implication
of the new or altered connection on the surrounding city intersections and
roadways, as part of its application for a new or altered connection, as well
as the feasibility of any possible mitigation of such impact. Any such traffic
studies shall be at the sole cost of the applicant. The scope (or necessity) of
any traffic study shall be established by the city at the time the application
is filed.
      (8)   In the case of an applicant requesting that the city take over
control over roadways that have been completed as part of a new development, or
for some other reason, the applicant must also show that there are no
obstructions in the right-of-way, ADA requirements for the roads and sidewalks
have been met, that the condition of the roads, sidewalks and drainage is
acceptable to the city and that there is no legal impediment to the transfer.
      (9)   The city may waive any of the application and approval standards,
if, in the city's sole determination, the vehicular connection constitutes a
minor and inconsequential connection to the city's public roadway system.
(Ord. 07-09-20-A, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 91.004 APPEAL.
   The city may deny an application for an encroachment permit. Said denial
shall be in writing and must specify the reasons for denial. Applicant shall
have a right to appeal the decision to the City Commission, which appeal must
be in writing and must be received within ten days of the denial. Said appeal
will be docketed for review and decision at the next regularly scheduled City
Commission meeting, provided it is received at the city office at least seven
days prior to the meeting. If not so timely received, it shall be docketed for
the following regular meeting. Applicant will be allowed a reasonable time to
present any relevant evidence that supports applicant's appeal. The decision of
the City Commission on the appeal must be in writing, with findings supporting
said approval or denial.
(Ord. 07-09-20-A, passed 8-13-2020) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.005 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Commission for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Commission shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract therefor, for a period not
exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall furnish good
and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work. The City
Commission may make separate contracts for the different kinds of work with
different parties.
Statutory references:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.020 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
    Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge it shall provide an opportunity to the public to provide
input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS 61.823(2)
to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax monies for
road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.021 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.022 EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.023 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
    The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.024 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
    This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.025 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
are under construction as of the effective date of this subchapter unless
construction is suspended after that date and the city desires to reactivate
the project.
(KRS 174.100(7))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.040 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.041 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.042 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Chapter 94
REGULATION OF BENCHES
§ 91.055 REGULATION OF BENCHES.
   (A)   Any person or entity desiring to place a bench on the right-of-way of
the city, or upon a right-of-way maintained by the city, shall first make a
written request to the city or its designee. The requested location for the
bench shall be examined by the city to ensure a bench can be safely placed and
can meet the regulations of the city.
   (B)   Before any bench is placed (or allowed to remain after the effective
date of this subchapter) in the public way it shall be subject to review and
approval by the city or its designee who shall consider:
      (1)   Whether the bench endangers public safety or property, or
interferes with or impedes the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      (2)   Whether the placement impedes or interferes with the reasonable use
of a display window or display space;
      (3)   Whether the design, size, shape, materials and color scheme of the
bench comport with and enhance the quality and character of the streetscape,
including nearby developments and existing land uses; and
      (4)   Whether the proposed bench is located within 100 feet of another
bench or TARC bus shelter.
   (C)   A bench must be place and secured onto concrete pads.
   (D)   The bench and placement must meet all Americans with Disabilities Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., guidelines.
(Ord. 09-09, passed 10-8-2009) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.056 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The operator of the bench shall submit to the city, a signed
application in writing with a certificate of insurance, approved in form and
amount by Risk Management, showing the city as an additional insured covering
any liability arising out of the maintenance of a bench.
   (B)   The application shall contain:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number and, if applicable, electronic
mail address of the operator;
      (2)   Each request must contain a site plan showing the exact street
location where the bench is to be placed. A scale drawing or site plan for each
bench must show its placement relative to existing buildings, curbs and other
fixtures and appurtenances in the surrounding public rights-of-way for a
minimum of 25 feet in any direction. The requested locations shall be examined
by the city to ensure a bench can be safely placed and that it is greater than
100 feet of any other bench in the right-of-way or greater than 100 feet from
any TARC shelter;
      (3)   Whether the operator would prefer to receive notice from the city
and orders issued by the city by regular mail or electronic mail;
      (4)   The signature of the operator; and
      (5)   The required permit fee of $100.
   (C)   The information supplied pursuant to division (B)(1) above shall be
used for all notices, correspondence or communications from the city.
   (D)   Permits must be renewed annually, shall not be transferable and shall
be renewable pursuant to the procedure for original applications and upon
payment of the applicable nonrefundable permit fee.
(Ord. 09-09, passed 10-8-2009)
§ 91.057 ISSUANCE OF A PERMIT.
   No permit shall be issued unless the following occur.
   (A)   (1)   The operator has filed a written statement whereby the bench
operator agrees to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the city, its elected
and appointed officials, employees, agents and successors in interest from all
claims, damages, losses and expenses including attorney fees, arising out of or
resulting directly or indirectly from the contractor’s (or contractor’s
subcontractors, if any) performance or breach of the contract provided that the
claim, damage, loss or expense is:
         (a)   Attributable to personal injury, bodily injury, sickness, death
or to injury to or destruction of property, including the loss of use resulting
therefrom, or breach of contract; and
         (b)   Not caused by the negligent act or omission or willful
misconduct of the city or its elected and appointed officials and employees
acting within the scope of their employment.
      (2)   This hold harmless and indemnification clause shall in no way be
limited by any financial responsibility or insurance requirements and shall
survive the termination of this contract.
   (B)   The operator has paid a nonrefundable permit fee of $100 for each
bench.
   (C)   The operator is not in arrears as to any fees or charges regarding
benches.
   (D)   If the selected site location is on a state road, then the person(s)
or entity seeking the bench must first obtain review and written approval from
the State Transportation Cabinet, Department of Highways before submitting an
application to the city.
(Ord. 09-09, passed 10-8-2009) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.058 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Each bench shall bear a weather-proof label which contains the permit
number and the name, address, telephone number of the owner. This label shall
be conspicuous in size and color and placed in a location so as to be readily
visible.
   (B)   Each bench shall be maintained by its owner in a reasonably clean
condition and shall be free of dirt and grease, rust and corrosion in visible
metal areas, graffiti, discolored or bare surfaces, chipped, faded, cracked and
peeling paint, cracked, dented or broken components, pasted bills and other
debris.
   (C)   No bench shall be abandoned.
   (D)   The bench owner shall repair any damage to the right-of-way caused by
the installation or the maintenance of the bench.
   (E)   (1)   On removal of a bench, the operator of a permanently mounted
bench who removes the bench must completely remove or cut off all bolts or
fasteners flush with the surface of the right-of-way and restore the right-of-
way to its original condition.
      (2)   The operator must inform the city in writing of the removal of a
bench so that the city may inspect the location to confirm the restoration of
the right-of-way to its original condition.
(Ord. 09-09, passed 10-8-2009) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.059 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Each operator of a bench in the public rights-of-way shall provide the
city a current certificate of insurance, naming the city as an additional
insured party of a commercial general liability policy with a minimum limit of
total coverage in the amount of $1,000,000 per occurrence combined single limit
for bodily injury liability and property damage liability.
   (B)   The insurance shall be written with a company that has an A.M. Best
Rating of B+ VI or greater.
   (C)   The operator shall maintain the insurance described by this section so
long as the operator uses or maintains a bench in the public right-of-way, and
the failure to do so shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 09-09, passed 10-8-2009) Penalty, see §
91.999
REGISTRATION OF PAVEMENT, SIDEWALK AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY CUTS AND
RESTORATION
§ 91.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UTILITY COMPANY. Franchised or legislatively empowered utility companies
operating within the corporate boundaries of the city. A UTILITY COMPANY shall
be responsible for all actions of its authorized agents, servants, employees
and subcontractors relating to utility cuts.
   UTILITY CUTS.
      (1)   Any work within the right-of-way of a city street that disturbs the
pavement, curb and gutter, driveway entrances, sidewalk, landscaping or grassed
areas.
      (2)   This work may include, but is not limited to, utility main and/or
lateral replacement and repair, valve replacement and repair; installation of
new underground mains or laterals, structures or accessories, splices, buried
drops (under pavement or sidewalk); pole changes for height, accident and the
like, cathodic protection; boxes and vault installations and jacking or boring
under the right-of-way where disturbance within the right-of-way may occur. Any
work which does not disturb the right-of-way is exempt.
(Ord. 01-06, passed 5-3-2001)
§ 91.071 TIME FOR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to the beginning of any work within the right-of-way, the
utility company shall register the work with the city in writing, except
emergency work which must be registered within 48 hours of the commencement of
work. Where a planned project is known to the utility company three to six
months in advance, a preliminary registration shall be filed with the city with
a later registration showing the detail unavailable at the time of the
preliminary registration.
   (B)   The city shall provide forms containing the information required
hereinabove and any other information deemed necessary in the administration of
this subchapter; providing, however, that a utility company may devise its own
form if the form contains all of the information called for in the city form.
The registration may be mailed or delivered to the city, or sent by facsimile.
(Ord. 01-06, passed 5-3-2001) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.072 RESTORATION.
   Any utility company making a utility cut shall restore the surface of the
area to State Department of Highways specifications, and shall warrant the
pavement repairs against failure of all types for duration of five years. The
only time the utility company is released within the five years is where the
street is reconstructed. If a utility company shall, for a period of 30 days,
ignore any request by a city official for repairs during the existence of the
warranty period, the city may make the necessary repairs at the expense of the
utility company, plus $500 for noncompliance. Until these amount(s) are paid to
the city, the utility company shall be prohibited from making further utility
cuts within the city.
(Ord. 01-06, passed 5-3-2001) Penalty, see §
91.999
SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE
§ 91.085 RESERVED.
§ 91.086 RESERVED.
§ 91.087 SNOW, ICE AND WEEDS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant or any person having the care of any building or
structure abutting on any sidewalk shall cause the roof thereof to be so
drained that water gathered or accumulated thereon will not flow across or upon
any sidewalk.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the occupant of any building or lot abutting
upon any sidewalk to keep closely cut the grass, weeds and other vegetable
matter growing between the sidewalks and the curb, or in joints or breaks in
the sidewalk and curb. If any building or lot is unoccupied, then it shall be
the duty of the owner thereof to have the grass, weeds or vegetable matter cut
as above provided. If the owner is absent from the city, then it shall be the
duty of his or her agent to have the grass, weeds or other vegetable matter
cut.
(Ord. 5, Series 1984, passed 5- -1984; Ord. 14-08, passed 6-12-2014) Penalty,
see §
91.999
§ 91.088 REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant or any person having the care
of any real estate abutting on any sidewalk to keep the sidewalk free of dirt,
litter and trash at all times. Any person who permits these conditions
excessively to continue after reasonable notice from the City Clerk to clean
the sidewalk shall be deemed in violation of this section.
(Ord. 5, Series 1984, passed 5- -1984) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.089 DAMAGE TO SIDEWALK.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, break, displace or damage in
any manner, any sidewalk or curb, except in making improvements to adjoining
lots. Whoever shall so dig, break, displace or damage any sidewalk or curb
while making adjoining improvements shall restore same to its proper condition
as defined in § 91.090(B) within 48 hours after completion of the work or
damage unless the time should be extended by the City Clerk. Persons causing
sidewalk damage, unrelated to adjoining improvements, shall be jointly
responsible with property owners, occupants and custodians for repair in
accordance with §§ 91.090 and 91.091.
(Ord. 5, Series 1984, passed 5- -1984) Penalty, see §
91.999
ADDRESSES
§ 91.105 STANDARDS OF COMPLIANCE.
   On or before August 4, 1984, all residential, commercial and industrial
property located in the city shall conspicuously display the appropriate street
address as assigned by the County Department of Public Works in accordance with
the following standards.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
      (1)   The address shall be placed at the front of the residence or in a
manner so as to be visible from the nearest fronting road.
      (2)   The address shall be clearly visible from the nearest fronting road
and kept free and clear of any obstructions hindering reasonable visibility
from the fronting road.
      (3)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form of a size at least
three inches by two inches or larger, if necessary, to be visible from the
nearest fronting road, and in a color distinguishable from its background, with
the exception that existing posting numerals shall be acceptable hereunder if
so visible as to adequately identify each single-family dwelling.
   (B)   Apartment buildings.
      (1)   The address shall be placed in a manner to ensure prompt
identification of apartment buildings from the nearest fronting road or parking
area, depending upon the location and placement of each particular apartment
building.
      (2)   The addresses shall be clearly visible and kept free and clear of
any obstructions hindering reasonable visibility from the nearest fronting road
or parking area.
      (3)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form of a size at least
three inches by two inches or larger, if necessary, to be visible from the
nearest fronting road or parking area, and in a color distinguishable from its
background, with the exception that existing posted numerals shall be
acceptable hereunder if so visible as to adequately identify each apartment
building.
      (4)   In the event that apartment buildings located in a complex or
elsewhere are not clearly visible from the nearest public thoroughfare, the
owner of those apartment buildings shall use a system of identification that is
reasonably calculated to be readily identifiable by public service and
emergency personnel. The Mayor of the city or his or her authorized
representative shall have the authority to approve any identification system
proposed in writing by apartment building owners. This written approval
obtained from the Mayor of the city shall be prima facie evidence of compliance
with this subchapter.
   (C)   Commercial and industrial structures.
      (1)   The address shall be placed on all commercial and industrial
structures so as to ensure visibility from the nearest fronting road and, if
the commercial or industrial structure is not visible from the nearest fronting
road, the street address shall be posted in a conspicuous manner so as to be
visible from the nearest fronting road.
      (2)   The numbers shall be in standard Arabic form of a size at least
five inches by three inches or larger, if necessary, to be visible from the
nearest fronting road, and in a color distinguishable from its background, with
the exception that existing posted numerals shall be acceptable hereunder if so
visible as to adequately identify each commercial or industrial structure.
      (3)   In the event that commercial or industrial structures located in a
complex or elsewhere are not clear1y visible from the nearest public
thoroughfare, the owner of those structures shall use a system of
identification that is reasonably calculated to be readily identifiable by
public service and emergency personnel.
      (4)   The Mayor of the city or his or her authorized representative shall
have the authority to approve any identification system proposed in writing by
owners of commercial or industrial structures. This written approval obtained
from the Mayor of the city shall be prima facie evidence of compliance with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 8, Series 1983, passed 8-4-1983) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.106 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Mayor of the city or his or her authorized representatives are hereby
designated as enforcement personnel for this subchapter, and he or she is
hereby vested with the authority to issue citations for violations of this
subchapter, which shall be enforced with the intent to ensure that each
residential, commercial and industrial structure in the city is clearly
identified by its assigned street address in order to enable emergency and
other public service personnel to promptly identify the same at all times
during the night and day.
(Ord. 8, Series 1983, passed 8-4-1983)
SPEED HUMPS
§ 91.120 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions apply for the purposes of this policy only.
   APPLICATIONS. For speed humps, they include a petition of the affected
property owners -one signature per address and a map showing the street and
house numbers;
   ROADWAYS. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to
any roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SPEED HUMPS. Geometric design feature of a roadway, consisting of a raised
area in the roadway pavement surface, extending transversely across the travel
way, whose primary purpose is to reduce the speed of vehicles traveling along
the roadway.
   STREET. Refers to the entire street length which that must be petitioned.
(Ord. 07-13-17-A, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 91.121 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All of the following criteria must be satisfied for a street to be
considered eligible for speed hump installation.
   (A)   Petition. A petition that documents that a minimum of 80% of the
property owners who live on the affected street support the installation of
speed humps with one signature per address and a map showing the street and
house numbers.
   (B)   Location of the street. The land uses of the properties abutting the
street where the speed hump is proposed must be composed of low density
residential dwellings. This would include public roadways where 75% or more of
the residents are single family detached housing.
   (C)   Operational characteristics of the street.
      (1)   The street must not be identified as a Collector of higher level
street, as defined by the Jefferson County Comprehensive Plan, Core Graphic 13.
      (2)   There must be no more than one moving lane of traffic in each
direction.
      (3)   The street must have a speed limit of 25 mph as determined in
accordance with the Middletown Code of Ordinances.
      (4)   The street must not be so close to a Fire Department facility as to
significantly interfere with emergency vehicle operations.
   (D)   Geometric characteristics of the street. The street must be paved. If
there are no curbs, a special design of speed hump must be used to prevent
vehicles from going around the speed hump.
(Ord. 07-13-17-A, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 91.122 SPEED HUMP REMOVAL AND ALTERATION.
   The process for speed hump removal or alteration by citizens is the same as
the process for installation.
(Ord. 07-13-17-A, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 91.123 SPEED HUMP LOCATION.
   The exact speed hump location is subject to operations requirements, as
determined by the city.
(Ord. 07-13-17-A, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 91.124 DESIGN STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   The city will prepare and maintain current design standards and installation
procedures for speed humps according to this policy.
   (A)   All signage and pavement markings shall comply with the current
edition of the MUTCD. Should signage and markings not be defined in the MUTCD,
they shall comply with ITE's recommended practice, guidelines for the design
and application of speed humps.
   (B)    Application and design of speed humps shall comply with ITE's
recommended practice, guidelines for the design and application of speed humps.
(Ord. 07-13-17-A, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 91.125 PROCEDURES FOR SPEED HUMP INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The initial request for the installation of speed humps must originate
from the property owners on the street. A request in writing from an individual
citizen or a representative of a neighborhood group must be forwarded to the
city address below.
   City Clerk City of Middletown
   P.O. Box 43048
   Louisville, KY 40253
   (B)   The city will make a preliminary determination of eligibility based on
available traffic data in a timely matter. A determination of the street's
eligibility for speed hump installation will be made, in writing and in a
timely manner, to the applicant's representative based on the speed hump
policy.
      (1)   If the street is determined not to be eligible, the applicant's
representative will be given written notification of that determination and its
reasons.
      (2)   The decision may be appealed in writing to the city within 15 days
of the notification date.
      (3)   If the street is determined to eligible, the applicant's
representative will be instructed to submit a petition showing that a minimum
of 80% of the property owners on the affected street support the installation
of speed humps as provided in the speed hump policy and a map showing the
street and house numbers. Only petition forms supplied by the city may be used
for this purpose.
      (4)   Once a street is determined to be ineligible, either after an
appeal or when not appealed, applications for reconsiderations will not be
accepted for two years from the date of the ineligibility decision.
   (C)   The city will make a determination of the total design, engineering
and installation costs according to the speed hump policy.
(Ord. 07-13-17-A, passed 8-10-2017)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Registration of pavement, sidewalk and public rights-of-way cuts and
restoration. Any utility company who violates any provision of §§
91.070 through
91.072 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $25 per day from the day the
registration was required to have been filed herein. On mailed registrations,
the postmark shall be the date of registration, otherwise the date of receipt
by the city shall be the date of registration. This civil penalty shall be in
the nature of a debt and if not paid by the offender within 15 days from date
of assessment by the City Clerk may be recovered by the city in a civil action
in the nature of a debt, as provided in KRS 83A.065.
   (C)   Sidewalk maintenance. Violation of §§
91.089, 91.090 or 91.091 shall be punishable by fine of $3 per square foot of
defective sidewalk, but not more than $500 for each violation. Failure to
repair each continuous 25 feet of defective sidewalk, as required by §§
91.085 through 91.092, shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   Addresses. Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with the
provisions of §§
91.105 and
91.106 shall be fined not less than $10 or more than $25 and each day during
which the violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense. Warning
citations may be issued by enforcement personnel in appropriate circumstances.
(Ord. 8, Series 1983, passed 8-4-1983; Ord. 5, Series 1984, passed 5- -1984;
Ord. 01-06, passed 5-3-2001)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Property maintenance standards
   
92.03   Responsibility for property maintenance
   
92.04   Abatement
   
92.05   Appeals
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. In addition to those definitions provided by state codes, local
ordinances and case law, the term abandoned means and refers to any item, which
has ceased to be used for its designed and intended purpose.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, administrative officer, alcohol beverage control officer or other
public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a citation, for the
city.
   DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The City Citation Officer, or other person
or employee as may be designated by the City Commission to enforce city
ordinances.
   GOOD REPAIR. External structure elements of buildings being maintained in a
state of repair, which allows that element to provided the functional use for
which it was intended.
   INOPERATIVE. Incapable of functioning or producing activity or mechanical or
other reasons.
   NUISANCE. Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity
jurisprudence, or any condition defined as a NUISANCE under this chapter.
   OWNER. The registered owner of a vehicle, the person(s) to whom property tax
is assessed on real or person al property, as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll of the county, renter(s), lessor(s) and other occupants
residing permanently or temporarily on property.
   PERSON. Individual, partnership, joint venture, corporation, association,
social club, fraternal organization, trust, estate, receiver or other entity.
   RESIDENT. Any person over the age of 18 who lives part or full time at the
residence where the violation is alleged to have occurred in the city.
   STAGNANT/POLLUTED WATER. Standing water for longer than four days, without
proper drainage or disbursement.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. An household item, object, etc., or any device used
to carry out a specific function which has served its usefulness (is no longer
being used) and is more or less in its original form and can longer be used for
its originally intended purpose or having defective or missing parts or in such
a condition generally as to be unfit for further use or conveyance.
   WEEDS. Unhealthful plant growth such as but not limited to jimson, burdock,
ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or ay other growth of a like kind or any plant
growth not intended for aesthetic appeal or other legitimate purpose, such as
crops, trees, bushes, flowers, ornamental plants. Whether a certain plant or
plant is ornamental shall be solely determined by the city.
(Ord. 11-05, passed - -2011; Ord. 06-11-20-A, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 92.02 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for any owner or other person
in control of property or premises to keep or maintain property, premises, or
rights-of-way in such a manner that any of the following conditions are found
to exist:
   (A)   Abandoned, dismantled, wrecked, inoperable, and discarded objects,
equipment or appliances such as, but not limited to, water heaters,
refrigerators, furniture which is not designed for outdoor use, household
fixtures, machinery, equipment, or cans or containers standing or stored on
property or on sidewalks or streets.
   (B)   Discarded food, garbage, rubbish, refuse, trash, limbs.
   (C)   Oil, grease, paint, other petroleum products, hazardous materials,
volatile chemicals, pesticides, herbicides, fungicides or waste (solid, liquid
or gaseous).
   (D)   Lumber (excluding lumber for a construction project on the property
with a valid permit), salvage materials, including but not limited to auto
parts, scrap metals, tires, other materials stored on premises in excess of 72
hours and visible from a public street, walkway, alley or other public
property.
   (E)   Incomplete projects. Any renovation or construction to structures or
grounds must be completed through consistent, sustained effort and no such
building or grounds under construction or renovation may be allowed to be
uncompleted for an unreasonable length of time, given due consideration to the
type of project.
   (F)   Swimming pool, pond, spa, other body of water, or excavation which is
abandoned, unattended, unsanitary, empty, or which is not securely fenced, or
(if not in use) does not have a secure and safe cover, which will not collect
water and is effective and suitable.
   (G)   Any premises which detrimentally impacts the surrounding neighborhood
because of dilapidation, deterioration or decay is unsafe for the purpose for
which it is being used or is not secured or is improperly secured.
   (H)   Permits any structure/residence to become unfit and/or unsafe for
human habitation or occupancy, or to permit the condition to exist in the
structure which is dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the
occupants or the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, or other
residences of the city.
   (I)   Permits any weeds, or grass growth other than crops, trees or
ornamental plants or shrubs, to grow to a height exceeding 12 inches. It shall
be the duty of any owner, operator, agent or occupant, occupying or controlling
property abutting a public street within the city, to maintain all grass to
height of 12 inches, to remove all refuse, weeds, trash, waste and litter from
the sidewalks, curbing, to the edge of the pavement of such streets as are
adjacent to or abut such property. Owner of vacant property over one acre must
keep grass to the 12-inch height in a buffer area 100 feet from each property
line abutting any occupied lot or any roadway. Otherwise, owners of vacant
property over one acre must bush-hog the property at least four times per year.
   (J)   Permits or causes the interface with any obstruction of a drainage
ditch, device or system as to inhibit, alter, or prevent proper drainage
patterns.
   (K)   Any tree, stack, or other object adjoining any city right-of-way,
which is standing in such a condition that is likely to, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger life, limb or property, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property by falling thereof or parts thereof.
   (L)   Having an uncovered or insecurely covered cellar, well, pit or any
excavation or situated upon any premises in any open lot or plane that any
reasonable or prudent man should realize should be injurious to human health.
   (M)   The failure to keep an animal’s pen, ear, lot or other enclosure in a
sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive odors.
   (N)   The failure of an owner or occupant of business property in the city
to comply with the following property maintenance standards, the Land
Development Code, or comply with the terms and conditions of the approved
development or landscape plan for a site, including, but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Usage of a property that is not compliance with the Land
Development Code.
      (2)   Obstructing the required parking shown on a development plan.
      (3)   Failure to construct or maintain structures and facilities shown on
a development or landscape plan.
      (4)   Obstructing, removing, or altering any drainage facilities shown on
a development plan. Any storm water drainage facility located within the
business premises, which includes deeded property lines of the business, must
be kept clear of all debris, properly mowed, trimmed and properly functioning
as designed.
      (5)   Failure to maintain landscape areas and to replace any landscape
plants which have died or are removed.
      (6)   Obstructing, removing, or altering any pedestrian or vehicular
access facilities shown on a development plan.
      (7)   Failure to maintain business signs or allowing signs not
specifically permitted on the development plan to be present on the site.
Business premises must be clear of all temporary, freestanding signs, posters
and banners unless otherwise authorized from the city and granted proper sign
permits. All permitted signs must be in proper working order with proper
covering and shielding affixed.
      (8)   Outdoor storage of equipment or materials not allowed by the Land
Development Code or the approved development plan.
      (9)   Parking lots, sidewalks, dumpster areas, approaches, concrete
aprons are to be patched, repaired and free from loose gravel, loose dirt,
debris, potholes, excessive cracking, weeds, grass, holes, litter or other
foreign materials or items.
      (10)   No dumpsters and other portable storage containers located on the
property are allowed except as allowed under the approved development plan or
proper authorization from the by city through the issuance of a permit.
Permanent dumpsters must be screened from view as required by the Land
Development Code.
      (11)   Vehicles parked or stored outdoors on any lot must be parked in
compliance with applicable provision of the Land Development Code. If any
vehicle is found illegally parked on any lot in violation of any provisions of
this section and the identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or
person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie
responsible for the violation.
      (12)   Any vehicle abandoned or illegally parked on any lot in the city
shall be removed at the direction of the city to a tow lot designated by the
city. The vehicle may be reclaimed by the owner at the owner's expense
including all towing, storage charges and payment of all fines imposed by the
city. All police officers, or city enforcement officers, are empowered to
authorize the impoundment of a vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances
after a citation has been issued.
(Ord. 11-05, passed - -2011; Ord. 05-12-22-C, passed 6-9-2022)
§ 92.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner or resident of any property within the city shall be
responsible for the maintenance of property and premises in a manner consistent
with the provisions of this chapter and the Code of the City of Middletown,
Metro Louisville Ordinances, Land Development Code, Kentucky Revised Statutes
and the Kentucky Building Code.
   (B)    Enforcement of this chapter may be accomplished by the Code
Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by the
City Commission to enforce city ordinances in any manner authorized by this
chapter or by any other law, including but not limited to issuance of criminal
citations, civil actions and abatement.
(Ord. 11-05, passed - -2011; Ord. 06-11-20-A, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Action to abate and cost. In order to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, when the Code Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee as may
be designated by the City Commission to enforce city ordinances, finds and
determines that the severity of the violation warrants immediate action, he or
she may clean up or abate violation thereof. The cost of such cleanup or
abatement may be recovered by the city. The cleanup or abatement will not
relieve the person of further action which may be taken by the City Commission.
   (B)   Costs of enforcement. In any civil action commenced by the city under
this chapter, the city shall be entitled to recover from the defendant of such
action, reasonable attorney’s fees, costs of suit, any other costs of
enforcement, including but not limited to, inspection costs and cleanup or
abatement costs.
   (C)   Enforcement procedures and notice.
      (1)   The city hereby establishes the standards and procedures for the
enforcement of this chapter under KRS 65.8801 to 68.8840 as follows:
         (a)   Whenever such a situation is discovered, the Code Enforcement
Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated by the City
Commission to enforce city ordinances shall give five-days’ written notice to
any one or more or all: the owner, operator, agent, occupant or person having
control or management of the property to remedy such situation.
         (b)   The notice shall be served upon the responsible as stated above,
by mail, or by personal service. If by mail, it shall be addressed to the last
known address of the owner of the property, as it appears on the current tax
assessment roll. The failure of any or all of the addresses to receive the
notice shall not invalidate any of the proceedings.
         (c)   If the city so chooses, the city may give notice to any lien-
holder on the property of the violation, in accordance with KRS 65.8801 to
66.8840, advising them of the violation and the fact that the city intends to
clean up the property and file a property lien. The city shall give the lien
holders a hearing to contest the violation and if the violation is confirmed in
the hearing, 14 days to clean up the violation, prior to placing the priority
lien.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the situation. The affidavit of
the Code Enforcement Officer, or other person or employee as may be designated
by the City Commission to enforce city ordinances, shall constitute prima facie
evidence of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings
pursuant to this chapter and KRS 65.8840, and shall be recorded in the office
of the Jefferson County Clerk, with the priority according such liens under KRS
65.8840. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest thereafter until paid at the rate of 1.5% per month,
compounded monthly, an may be enforced by judicial proceedings.
   (E)   In addition to the civil remedy prescribed in the previous sections of
this chapter, the city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall
have the same remedies s provided for the recover of a debt owed.
(Ord. 11-05, passed - -2011; Ord. 06-11-20-A, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 92.05 APPEALS.
   Any action taken by the Code Enforcement Officer or other person or employee
as may be designated by the City Commission to enforce city ordinances may be
appealed to the Code Enforcement Board by any person cited hereunder. The
appeal must be in writing, stating with specificity the grounds of the appeal
and it must be filed with the City Clerk within the same time allowed for
abatement (without extension.) The grounds for the appeal shall be stated in
the appeal in detail. the appeal shall be heard by the Code Enforcement Board
within 60 days of it being filed within the City Clerk. While the appeal is
pending, the abatement notice shall be held in abeyance.
(Ord. 11-05, passed - -2011; Ord. 06-11-20-A, passed 7-9-2020)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Criminal or civil penalty. Pursuant to the city's prosecutorial discretion,
the city may enforce violations of the provisions of this chapter as criminal,
civil or abatement actions.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Any person who is violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of no less than
$100 and no more than $500. Each and every day during which any such offence is
committed, continued or allowed shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Civil fine. Fine in an amount no less than $100 per day and no more
than $500 per day. Each day of non-compliance shall constitute the imposition
of per day fine for each day's violation, up to the following maximums. On
first violation, the maximum total fine is $1,000. On a second violation that
occurs within 12 months of the first violation, the maximum total fine for each
person cited is $3,000. On a third violation that occurs within 12 months of
the first violation, the maximum total fine shall be $5,000.
(Ord. 05-12-22-C, passed 6-9-2022)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Sale of display fireworks
   
93.03   Use of display fireworks
   
93.04   Sale of consumer fireworks
   
93.05   Use of consumer fireworks
   
93.06   Inspection and enforcement
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible
or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, detonation or ignition.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Formerly known as Class C common fireworks. Fireworks,
1.4G Explosives, that are suitable for use by the public which are designed
primarily to produce visible and audible effects by combustion, deflagration,
detonation or ignition, and contain 50 milligrams  (“rag.”), or less of
explosive composition, and if an aerial device, contains 130 milligrams or less
of explosive composition which comply with the construction, chemical
composition, and labeling regulations of the United States Consumer Product
Safety Commission. Such fireworks include, but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. Consists of a metal wire
or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition, which upon
ignition, produces a shower of sparks. Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of
pyrotechnic composition per item. Those devices containing any perchlorate or
chlorate salts may not exceed five grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Wire sparklers which contain no magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams
of composition per item are not included in this category, in accordance with
Department of Transportation regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition, where upon ignition, a shower of sparks
and sometimes a whistling or smoking effect, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base or handheld. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grains if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by distance or at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A pyrotechnic device attached to a post or tree by means
of a nail or string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may
contain not more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain
more than 200 grams, total pyrotechnic composition upon ignition, the wheel
revolves, producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling
effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wood stick
for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst of
color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter/aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten “stars” (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine shell. 
            1.   Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a wood or
plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical composition (lift
charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect). Upon ignition, “stars,”
components producing reports containing up to 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report, or other devices are propelled into the air.
            2.   The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal components
containing a bursting charge, and term “shell” refers to a device that propels
a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or shell device
may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence upon
ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit/reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or
bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of
chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable or filing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers/salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A
whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced. The explosive composition
used to create the noise may not exceed 50 milligrams.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, detonation or ignition. This term
includes, but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains
(130 milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than
forty grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed
the limits for classification as “Consumer Fireworks.” Such definition meets
the Consumer Product Safety Commission definition for display fireworks in 16
C.F.R. Pis. 1500 and 1507 and are classified as 1.3G explosives by the United
States Department of Transportation.
   SMOKE DEVICES. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition that, upon
ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKES/GLOW WORMS. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic compositions that produces
a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the pellet
burns. Such devices may NOT contain mercuric thiocyanatc.
   TRICK NOISEMAKERS. Item that produces a small report intended to surprise
the user. These devices include:
      (1)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more than
16 milligrams of explosive composition, that is friction sensitive. A String
protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper streamers
and producing a small report.
      (2)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
      (3)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
      (4)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
      (5)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a small
quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette containing one
of the pegs, a small report is produced.
      (6)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
   WIRE SPARKLER. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that produces a
shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may NOT contain magnesium and must
not exceed 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Devices containing
any chlorate or percholate salts may not exceed five grams of pyrotechnic
composition per item.
(Ord. 07-11, passed 12-8-2011)
§ 93.02 SALE OF DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to
offer for sale, expose for sale, sell a retail, keep or possess with the intent
to sell any display fireworks with in the City of Middletown.
(Ord. 07-11, passed 12-8-2011)
§ 93.03 USE OF DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity to
use or detonate any
display fireworks within the City of Middletown except as follows.
   (A)   Pyrotechnic devices and distress signals for marine, aviation and
highway use in emergency situations.
   (B)   Blank cartridges used in a show or theater or for use as a signal or
ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (C)   Pyrotechnic devices authorized for use under the supervision of a
military organization.
   (D)   Pyrotechnic devices for use in training by fire service, law
enforcement, or similar governmental agencies.
   (E)   Fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct supervision of
the United States Department of the Interior or any equivalent agency.
   (F)   Supervised public displays of fireworks by municipalities or other
organizations conducted by a competent display operator to be approved by the
Middletown Fire Chief and who shall have the qualifications and meet the
requirements set out in Chapter 227 of the Kentucky Revised Statutes and
further provided that organizations other than the city shall be required to
pay a permit fee of $250 which may be waived in the sole discretion of the
city. The applicant must apply for the permit not less than 15 days prior to
the event. Permits shall be obtained from Inspection, Permits and Licenses
(IPL) a division of the Louisville Metro Codes and Regulations Department.
(Ord. 07-11, passed 12-8-2011)
§ 93.04 SALE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The sale of consumer fireworks shall be permitted the City of
Middletown as set out in divisions (B), (C), (D) and (E) of this section.
   (B)   Within the City of Middletown, consumer fireworks may not be offered
for sale, exposed for sale, sold at retail, kept or possessed with intent to
sell if said fireworks have as part of their devices any wings, fins or other
mechanisms designed to cause the devices to fly or are designed to operate as
aerial devices or if the consumer fireworks carry a cautionary label which
includes in their description any of the following terms: “explosive,” “emits
flaming pellets,” “flaming balls,” “firecrackers,” “report” or “rocket.”
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to sell or
possess with intent to sell or display consumer fireworks within the City of
Middletown.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to employ any person under the age of 18 for the sale of fireworks within the
City of Middletown.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other entity
to give, offer for sale or sell any consumer or display fireworks to any person
who is not 18 years of age within the City of Middletown.
   (F)   It shall not be a violation of this ordinance for any person, firm,
corporation or other entity to transport within the City of Middletown consumer
or display fireworks, so long as such products are being transported through
the City of Middletown to a location where such products can be sold, stored or
used in compliance with law. Commercial transportation of all fireworks are
required to be in accordance with city, state and federal regulations regarding
explosive materials.
   (G)   The location of any temporary structure, or retail display for the
purpose of displaying for sale and FIREWORKS by definition, such as a booth,
make shift stand, or retail shelf shall not be within 100 feet of any
combustible or flammable liquid dispenser, or within 50 feet of any combustible
structure, or within 50 feet of any combustible or flammable liquid container,
or within 25 feet of any non- combustible structure.
   (H)   Fire safety requirements.
      (1)   Fire extinguishers will be required in accordance with NFPA #10
Standards as referenced by the current adopted Kentucky Standards of Safety.
      (2)   No smoking signs will be posted at each entrance and/or within ten
feet of every isle, and there will be no open flame devices permitted within
100 feet of the temporary structure. No DEMONSTRATION of fireworks will be
permitted near or around the display of fireworks for sale. A sign shall be
posted on each side stating “No Fireworks Discharge within 300 feet”. Smoking
is not permitted within 50 feet of the tent or stand.
      (3)   All temporary electrical wiring will be required to meet NFPA # 70
Standards as referenced by the current adopted Kentucky Standards of Safety.
      (4)   All retail sales and storage of pyrotechnic material must follow
NFPA # 1123, 1124, 1125, 1126 and 1127 which is the current adopted National
Fire Protection Association Code Book by the State of Kentucky.
(Ord. 07-11, passed 12-8-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful in the city for any person, firm, corporation or
other entity to use or detonate fireworks on private property in such manner as
to create a circumstance of wanton endangerment or disorderly conduct.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful in the city for any person, firm, corporation or
other entity to use or detonate any fireworks on city property except for
products defined in § 93.01 under CONSUMER FIREWORKS and ground and hand-held
sparkling devices.
(Ord. 07-11, passed 12-8-2011) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Middletown Fire Chief or his designated representative and in
cooperation with the Louisville Fire Department Arson Bureau are hereby
determined to be the enforcement authority and are authorized and directed to
enforce all sections of this subchapter.
   (B)   The enforcement authority may enter any premises covered by this
subchapter in the performance of duties imposed herein.
(Ord. 07-11, passed 12-8-2011)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the City Commission or
other authorized city official. The City Commission or other authorized city
official, before granting the permit, may require the applicant to provide a
bond to indemnify the city and all other persons against injury or damages
which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior or any material of
a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any other
portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall be
provided for these hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of §§
93.01 through
93.06 may be prosecuted in proceedings before the Louisville Metro Codes and
Regulations Board or by the Jefferson District Court.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity found to be in
violation of §§
93.01 through
93.06 by the Louisville Metro Codes and Regulations Board may be assessed a
civil penalty payable to the City of Middletown in an amount not less than $50
nor more than $500.
      (3)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity found to be in
violation of §§
93.01 through
93.06 by the Jefferson District Court shall receive a fine not to exceed $500.
      (4)   Enforcement authorities or police officers shall immediately
confiscate any fireworks believed to be in violation of §§
93.01 through
93.06. Following an appropriate hearing, if no violation is found to have
occurred, the confiscated fireworks shall be returned by the enforcement
authorities or police officers to the person, firm, corporation or other entity
from who they were obtained. Following an appropriate hearing, if a violation
is found to have occurred, the confiscated fireworks shall be destroyed by the
appropriate enforcement authority.
(Ord. 07-11, passed 12-8-2011)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.02   Hauling loose material
   
94.03   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.04   Litter on private property
Litter Control
   
94.15   Definitions
   
94.16   Littering prohibited
   
94.17   Prevention of scattering
   
94.18   Upsetting or tampering with receptacles
   
94.19   Sidewalks and alleys to be kept free from litter
   
94.20   Owner to maintain private premises
   
94.21   Littering from vehicles
   
94.22   Litter in parks
   
94.23   Construction sites
   
94.24   Loading and unloading docks
   
94.25   Parking lots
   
94.26   City Commission may adopt rules
   
94.27   Clearing of litter from open private property by city
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley or other
public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public place shall haul it or cause it to be hauled in vehicles
provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
the contents from falling or being thrown, blown or deposited upon any street,
alley, sidewalk or other public place. Any materials which fall from or which
are thrown, blown or deposited from any vehicle upon any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place shall be removed immediately by the person in
charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in a manner that litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks or other public
places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
LITTER CONTROL
§ 94.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A container of water-tight construction with
a tight fitting lid or cover capable of preventing the escape of contents
within. The receptacles shall have handles or other means for safe and
convenient handling and be of a size or sufficient capacity to hold all litter
generated between collection periods and shall be in compliance with the
regulations promulgated by the City Commission.
   CONSTRUCTION SITES. Any private or public property upon which repairs to
existing buildings, construction of new buildings or demolition of existing
structures is taking place.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish and all other waste material which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS. Any dock space or area used by any moving
vehicle for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares,
commodities and persons located on or adjacent to any stream, river or land.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. All property including, but not limited to, vacant land or
any land, building or
structure designed or used for residential, commercial, business, industrial,
institutional or religious purposes, together with any yard, grounds, walk,
driveway, fence, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox and other structure
appurtenant thereto.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, lakes, rivers, watercourses or fountains and any and all public
parks, squares, spaces, grounds and buildings.
   PUBLIC RECEPTACLES. Any receptacles provided by or authorized by any public
agency, corporation, association and the like.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon land or water, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987)
§ 94.16 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any litter within the city except in public
receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection or in any duly
licensed disposal facility.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 PREVENTION OF SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in a manner as to prevent litter from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 UPSETTING OR TAMPERING WITH RECEPTACLES.
   No person shall upset or tamper with a public or private receptacle designed
or used for the deposit of litter or cause or permit its contents to be
deposited or strewn in or upon any public place or private premises.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19 SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS TO BE KEPT FREE FROM LITTER.
   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any public place or private
premises shall keep the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter,
and shall maintain those receptacles as may be required by the regulations
issued by the City Commission.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.20 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter.
   (B)   The owner or person in control of private premises shall, if public
receptacles are unavailable, maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public place or private premises.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.21 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, while the operator of or passenger in a vehicle, shall
deposit litter upon any public place or private premises.
   (B)   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the
city unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any public place or
private premises. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any
public place or private premises, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or
foreign matter of any kind.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall deposit litter in any park within the city except in
receptacles and in a manner that the litter will be prevented from being
carried, or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon any
other public place or private premises. Where receptacles are not provided, all
litter shall be removed from the park by the person responsible for its
presence and properly disposed of elsewhere in a lawful manner.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Each contractor shall be responsible for the job site in a manner that
litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon
any public place or private premises.
   (B)   Litter or other debris, including dirt and mud, deposited as the
result of normal construction process upon any public place or private
premises, shall be removed.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 LOADING AND UNLOADING DOCKS.
   The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or unloading dock
shall maintain an authorized private receptacle for collection of litter, and
shall at all times maintain the dock area free of litter in a manner that
litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon
any public place or private premises.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25 PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Litter receptacles required. Any public place or private premises
containing any provision for parking vehicles shall be equipped with litter
receptacles in compliance with this section and the regulations promulgated by
the City Commission. These premises shall include, but not be limited to, such
places as shopping centers, outdoor theaters, drive-in restaurants, gasoline
service stations, apartment developments, parking lots and any other place
where provision is made for vehicles to stop or park in a designated area for
any purpose. In lieu of compliance with the receptacle requirements, the City
Commission may approve a plan for litter control through an authorized sweeping
program or other means.
   (B)   Number of receptacles. All premises having parking lots shall provide
in an easily accessible location, a minimum of two refuse containers for up to
25 spaces and at least one additional refuse container for every 50 additional
parking spaces.
   (C)   Specifications. Litter receptacles shall have tight fitting lids or
tops and shall be weighted or attached to the ground or other fixed structures
as necessary to prevent spillage. A minimum litter container size of 20 gallons
shall be used with all containers being an easily identifiable color with
proper markings indicating litter receptacles.
   (D)   Cleanliness. Premises used for the purpose designated herein shall be
kept in a litter free condition and all litter shall be removed periodically
from the receptacles.
   (E)   Obligation to use receptacles. It shall be the duty and obligation of
all persons using parking areas to use those litter receptacles as provided
above for the purposes intended and it shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to deposit upon any parking lot any litter.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 CITY COMMISSION MAY ADOPT RULES.
   The City Commission is hereby authorized and empowered through its
designated representative to make and adopt those rules and regulations as they
deem proper and necessary for the implementation of this subchapter for the
better protection of the health, welfare and safety of the city. In doing so,
applicable federal, state and local standards regarding fire prevention,
pollution control, public safety, nuisance and health regulations shall be
given due consideration.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987)
§ 94.27 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY CITY.
   The procedure for the removal of litter from private premises and the
charging of expense thereof as a lien upon the property to be collected as
other taxes by the city shall be in accordance with state statutes. The City
Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of this enforcement
program.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is committed or permitted
to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Litter control. Any person, firm or corporation violating any
provision of §§
94.15 through
94.27 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 5, Series 1987, passed 9-3-1987)
CHAPTER 95: RESERVED
CHAPTER 96: CEMETERY
Section
   
96.01   City to operate
§ 96.01 CITY TO OPERATE.
   (A)   The city does hereby accept from the Board of Trustees of the
Middletown Cemetery Association, Inc. the full and complete substitution of the
city, acting by and through its City Commission.
   (B)   The city shall use its best efforts to see that the (new) Middletown
Cemetery Association, Inc. is operated in accordance with the articles of
incorporation and bylaws of Middletown Cemetery Association, Inc.
   (C)   The business of Middletown Cemetery Association, Inc. shall be
conducted by the Board of Trustees, consisting of the Mayor and the City
Commissioners.
   (D)   The funds of Middletown Cemetery Association, Inc. shall not be
commingled with city funds.
(Ord. 08-05, passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 97: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
97.01   Purpose and objectives
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Permit application submittal requirements
   
97.04   Permitted facilities and locations
   
97.05   Standard requirements
   
97.06   Permit review, renewal and revocation procedures
   
97.07   Cessation of operations
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§  97.01 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish requirements and standards for
the development and siting of small cell wireless communications facilities and
ancillary support infrastructure on rights-of-way owned by the City of
Middletown. These regulations are intended to protect and promote public
safety, community health and welfare, and the aesthetic quality of the city
while providing for well-managed development of small cell wireless
telecommunications in accordance with Kentucky and federal law.
(Ord. 09-12-19-A, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANCILLARY EQUIPMENT. Any wires, cables, meter boxes, cable, conduit and
connectors, and any other equipment required to operate and support the
operation of small cell wireless facilities.
   APPLICANT. Service provider(s) of the small cell wireless facilities that
are proposed to be located within the city, or service provider's or providers'
authorized representative.
   COLLOCATION OR COLLOCATE. Mounting or installing an antenna on a preexisting
structure and/or modifying a structure for the purpose of mounting or
installing an antenna facility on that structure.
   DECORATIVE FACILITY. A structure that is specially designed and placed for
aesthetic purposes to reasonably match its surrounding environment and on which
no appurtenances or attachments, other than a small wireless facility,
lighting, specially designed informational or directional signage, or temporary
holiday or special event attachments, have been placed or are permitted to be
placed according to nondiscriminatory standards.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. All public streets and utility easements, now and hereafter
owned by the City of Middletown.
   SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless telecommunications facility that
meets all the following conditions:
      (1)   The facilities (i) are mounted on structure 50 feet or less in
height including the antennas; (ii) are mounted on structure no more than 110%
taller than other adjacent structures; or (iii) do not extend existing
structures on which they are located to the height of more than 50 feet or by
more than 11%, whoever is greater; and
      (2)   The facility does not require antenna structure registration under
47 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter A, Part
   TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE. By virtue of engineering or spectrum usage the
proposed placement for a small wireless facility, or its design, concealment
measures, or site location can be implemented without a reduction in the
functionality of the small wireless facility.
(Ord. 09-12-19-A, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 97.03 PERMIT APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance required. No applications for small cell wireless
facilities shall be deemed complete unless the applicant has submitted all
required application materials and applicable fees, as provided by this
section.
   (B)   Site plans and layouts. Applicants shall submit the following
information with the application electronically or by hard copy. Hard copy
submittals shall be provided in triplicate.
      (1)   Applicant's name, address, telephone number, e-mail addresses;
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers and e-mail addresses of all
duly authorized representatives and consultants, if any, acting on behalf of
the applicant with respect to the filing of the application;
      (3)   Map and inventory of proposed sites. Applicant shall provide a map
of the proposed site(s) and photographs of the structure if the installation is
a
proposed collocation. Applicant's map shall show all land uses within 800 feet
of the proposed small cell wireless facility sites(s), shown on the map;
      (4)   Photo simulations of small cell facility and ancillary equipment.
Applicant shall show the placement of the proposed small cell wireless
facility, including the placement of any ancillary equipment.
      (5)   Drawings and plans. Applicant shall furnish site plan, plans, and
elevations drawn to scale that identify the proposed small cell wireless
facility and ancillary equipment placement. Elevations shall include all
structures on which facilities are proposed to be located. All proposed
structures, including ancillary equipment, shall be drawn to scale on the
elevations. Site plans shall include depiction of signage required by this
chapter. In addition, site plans showing the existing condition of the
structure and surrounding area shall be prepared and submitted.
      (6)   Camouflage and/or matching methods. Applicant shall provide both a
description of methods proposed to make the installation and all ancillary
equipment a decorative facility and identify its colors and materials
specifications.
      (7)   Identify all ancillary equipment. Plans shall identify any and all
ancillary equipment required to support the small cell wireless facility.
      (8)   Unless the city waives the requirement in advance for good cause
shown, applicant shall provide notice to any property owner within 150 feet of
any installation of the application via first class mail and provide evidence
of that notice to the city with its application, along with any responses
received from that notice. The city will provide the applicant with any
responses or contacts the city receives in response to such notices.
   (C)   Fee requirements. An application for small cell wireless facilities
shall be accompanied by the following fee payments:
      (1)   Application fee. Application fee(s) in the amounts specified in the
city's right- of-way schedule.
      (2)   Annual rate. An applicant authorized to place small wireless
facilities and any related poles in the right-of-way will pay to the city
compensation for use of the rights-of-way and collocation on city structures in
the rights-of-way an aggregate annual rate not to exceed $270 per small
wireless facility. This rate, together with the application fee(s), shall be
the total compensation that the applicant is required to pay the city for the
deployment of each small wireless facility in the rights-of-way and any
associated pole.
      (3)   Bonding. Depending on the type, size and number of facilities, as
well as the financial viability of the applicant, the city may require a
reasonable and nondiscriminatory bond (or other good and sufficient security
from the applicant), with the application to ensure that the city right-of-way
is undamaged. Further, the city may require that a lesser bond (or other good
and sufficient security from the applicant), remains in place to ensure that
the facilities will be properly removed when no longer in use.
(Ord. 09-12-19-A, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 97.04 PERMITTED FACILITIES AND LOCATIONS.
   Subject to compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter, small
cell wireless facilities, pursuant to an approved permit issued by the city in
compliance with this chapter, shall be permitted on the right-of-way of the
City of Middletown, upon the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   Public right-of-way. Small cell wireless facilities in the public
right-of-way in all zoning districts shall be in accordance with the following
preferences. The preferred approaches for design and siting of new small cell
wireless facilities in the public right-of-way are ranked as indicated in the
following lists. When a lower ranked alternative is proposed, the Applicant
must include technical information demonstrating that a higher ranked option is
not feasible considering the provider's service objectives. Any claim of
infeasibility shall be supported by substantial evidence.
      (1)   Collocation on existing light poles;
      (2)   Collocation on any other existing utility poles;
      (3)   Collocation on any other existing pole, or an existing structure in
the public right-of-way;
      (4)   Location on a new pole of any kind.
   (B)   The city may propose an alternative location for proposed facilities
from the proposed location. City shall provide applicant a written explanation
of the reason the city believes the alternate location is preferable. The
applicant shall then, (i) accept the city's recommendation; (ii) identify
another alternate location and provide a written explanation why that alternate
is preferable; or (iii) provide written explanation why it continues to believe
the original location remains the best alternative. The Facilities Operator
shall utilize the alternate location unless the Facilities Operator shows that
the alternate location is not feasible. Negotiation must occur within the
timeframe set forth in § 97.06 to identify a mutually agreed location.
   (C)   No more than one small cell installation for any provider shall be
permitted per each 1,000 feet along a city right-of-way; unless applicant
provides technical information demonstrating that application of this
limitation is not feasible considering the applicant's service objectives. Any
claim of infeasibility shall be supported by substantial evidence.
   (D)   Facilities shall not interfere with existing or planned street trees,
landscaping and irrigation.
   (E)   Encroachment permit. An applicant seeking to install, construct,
operate, or perform work related to small cell wireless facilities in the
public right-of-way shall also obtain a revocable encroachment permit from the
city prior to commencing work.
(Ord. 09-12-19-A, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 97.05 STANDARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   State or federal requirements. Small cell wireless facilities,
including ancillary equipment, must meet or exceed current standards and
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), all applicable
federal, state, and local health and safety regulations, including the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. § 12101 et seq.), and all
other agencies of the state or federal government with the regulatory authority
over small cell wireless facilities. Federal law prohibits a city from denying
a permit if doing so would prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the
provision of personal wireless services. If, at any time, the state or federal
standards are modified, then applicant shall bring any and all permitted
facilities into compliance with current standards and regulations within three
months of the effective date of such modified standards and regulations, unless
a different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal
agency. Failure to bring permitted facilities into compliance with such revised
standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the revocation of city
permit and require removal of the small cell facility at the service provider's
expense.
   (B)   Building codes and safety standards. The applicant shall ensure the
structural integrity of its small cell wireless facilities installed within the
city, and shall ensure that the facilities are maintained in compliance with
standards contained in applicable state or local building codes, Louisville
Metro Land Development Code and the applicable standards for small cell
wireless facilities that are published by the Electronic Industries
Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the city
determines that a facility fails to comply with such codes and standards and
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to
the applicant of the facility, the applicant shall have 15 days to bring such
facility into compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such facility
into compliance within the required time shall constitute grounds for the
revocation of city permit and removal of the small cell facility at the owner's
expense.
   (C)   Radio frequency emissions standards. Applicants shall confirm that the
projected radio frequency emissions from any and all permitted small cell
wireless facilities comply with applicable safety standard specified in 47
C.F.R. 1.1307(b). Such information shall be submitted with permit application
materials and annually thereafter if requested by the city.
   (D)   Operation and maintenance standards. All small cell wireless
facilities shall always comply with the following standards in addition to any
other conditions required by permits issued pursuant to this chapter.
      (1)   Except as provided in this chapter, an applicant shall not install
signs, display logos, or run advertisement on, alongside, or in connection with
a permitted facility.
      (2)   Every permitted facility shall contain signage listing the name and
contact information for an emergency contact individual or service. The signage
shall comply with design, material, color and location requirements as stated
in the applicable encroachment permit. Contact information listed on the sign
shall be kept current and promptly be provided to the city.
      (3)   Each permitted facility and any ancillary equipment shall be
maintained in good working condition and appearance, free from trash, debris,
litter and graffiti and other forms of vandalism. Any damage from any cause
shall be repaired as soon as reasonably possible to minimize occurrences of
dangerous conditions or visual blight. Graffiti shall be removed from any
facility or equipment as soon as practicable, and in no instance more than 48
hours from the time of receipt of city notice.
      (4)   Except for emergency repairs, testing and maintenance activities
shall only occur between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Monday through
Friday, excluding holidays.
      (5)   Each facility shall install the following security measures:
         (1)   An on-site emergency "kill switch" to de-energize all radio
frequency circuits and components of each permitted facility in order to
protect emergency response personnel;
         (2)   Necessary safety measures to prevent unauthorized access,
vandalism, and other safety concerns. Installations must comply with design
standards, described herein and nuisance regulations, and must not interfere
with city emergency services or transmission.
      (5)   Except for public improvement projects undertaken primarily for
beautification, each facility shall be relocated at applicant's sole cost, upon
demand by city with reasonable notice, to allow for public improvement projects
which are necessary for the public's health and safety.
      (6)   Applicant shall, at its sole cost, be responsible for repairing to
city standard specifications or replacing in-kind any city facilities or
improvements disturbed or damaged during the installation, maintenance,
operation, repair or removal of applicant's small cell wireless facilities,
ancillary equipment, and any support infrastructure. City facilities or
improvements covered by this section include, but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   Curb, gutter, sidewalk, storm drains, and pavements;
         (b)   Landscaping; and
         (c)   Structures, buildings, light poles and fixtures.
   (E)   Electrical metering and structural standards. All small cell wireless
facilities shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   All electrical power required by small cell wireless facility
installations shall be metered independently from any anticipated or existing
city projects or facilities.
      (2)   All existing city owned street light poles proposed for small cell
wireless facility installations shall be inspected prior to installation in
accordance with the most recent city structural standards for street light
poles, including but not limited to safety and load bearing capability for the
small cell wireless facility to be installed, as approved by the City Engineer.
         (a)   Applicants requesting to install a small cell wireless facility
on city owned streetlight poles shall provide documentation demonstrating that
the pole proposed for installation meets or exceeds such city standards.
         (b)   If the city owned streetlight pole proposed for a small cell
wireless facility installation does not meet or exceed structural standards, no
small cell wireless facility may be installed thereon. Alternatively, the
applicant may at its own cost replace the existing streetlight pole at the
proposed installation location with a pole that meets or exceeds the city's
structural standards including safety and load bearing capability or capacity
and complies with all other applicable legal requirements. Any existing
lighting fixture shall be reinstalled on the new pole at applicant's cost.
Applicant shall be responsible to coordinate electrification of the new
installation with the utility provider, including independent metering of
electrical power required for applicant's installations as provided herein.
Upon installation, the new pole shall become the property of the city.
   (F)   Small cell wireless facilities and any ancillary equipment shall be
located and designed to be a decorative facility and blend with the existing
natural or built surroundings, provided, however, the obligation to install
decorative facilities in the right-of-way shall be applied uniformly and
nondiscriminatorily and shall be no more burdensome than the requirements
applied to similar types of infrastructure deployments for other utility
installations which are similarly situated. Applicant cannot remove or damage
any city landscaping and may be required by the city to install buffering
landscaping.
   (G)   Ancillary equipment. Ancillary equipment and any support facilities
for small cell wireless facilities located in the public right-of-way shall be
installed in accordance with the following preferences, ordered from most
preferred to least preferred: (i) underground in any area in which the existing
utilities are primarily located underground; (ii) on the pole or support
structure; or (iii) integrated into the base of the pole or support structure.
Applications that involve lesser-preferred installation locations may be
approved so long as the applicant demonstrates that the more preferred
installation location would be technically infeasible. Any claim of
infeasibility shall be supported by substantial evidence. If undergrounding of
ancillary equipment is not possible, all such equipment shall be located within
a decorative facility, and shall comply with all applicable laws, including but
not limited to the American Disabilities Act.
   (H)   Pole designs. Subject to § 97.05(F), small cell wireless facility pole
installations shall be a decorative facility. Each installation shall be
sufficiently designed and engineered such that no additional supporting
hardware is required beyond the pole itself. A small cell wireless facility
that is affixed to an existing light pole shall be painted and/or textured to
match that structure.
   (I)   Non-reflective materials. Small cell wireless facilities shall be
constructed out of non- reflective materials (visible exterior surfaces only),
or materials and colors consistent with surrounding backdrop. Anodized metal is
an acceptable treatment.
   (J)   Design preservation. Applicants are responsible for maintaining and
preserving design and aesthetic features for each facility, ancillary equipment
and any support infrastructure, including but not limited to color, tint,
shade, treatment, painting, surface treatment, replacement landscaping,
decorative facility design, and concealment.
   (K)   Security fencing. Under no circumstances shall security fencing be
permitted.
   (L)   Volume. Each individual antenna may not exceed three cubic feet in
volume and all other equipment associated with a small wireless facility shall
be no more than 28 cubic feet in volume. The volume calculation shall include
any shroud, cabinet or other concealment device used in connection with the
non-antenna accessory equipment. The volume calculation shall not include any
equipment or other improvements placed underground.
(Ord. 09-12-19-A, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 97.06 PERMIT REVIEW, RENEWAL AND REVOCATION PROCEDURES.
   The City Commission shall review an application subject to this chapter
considering its conformity with applicable provisions of this chapter, and
shall issue a permit on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions subject to the
following requirements:
   (A)   For an initial application, the city shall notify the applicant in
writing on or before the tenth day of submission if the application is
materially incomplete. In the written notice that the application is
incomplete, the city must clearly and specifically identify all the missing
documents or information and must specify the related code provision,
ordinance, application instruction or otherwise publicly stated procedures
related to missing information;
   (B)   If the city notifies the applicant in writing that the application is
incomplete in accordance with division (A), the processing deadline in division
(C) shall restart at zero on the date the applicant submits all the documents
and information identified by the Director to render the application complete;
   (C)   The city shall make its final decision to approve or deny a complete
application within (i) 60 days of receiving an application for the collocation
of a small wireless facility using an existing structure; and (ii) 90 days for
an application to locate a small wireless facility on a new structure. These
timelines may be tolled only by mutual agreement between the applicant and the
city;
   (D)   The city must advise the applicant in writing of its final decision,
and if the final decision is to deny the application, the final decision
document shall state the basis for a denial, including specific code provisions
on which the denial was based, and send the decision document to the applicant
on or before the day the city denies the application; and
   (E)   The city must process all applications on a nondiscriminatory basis
and may only deny an application subject to this chapter if the proposed small
wireless facility or new, modified, or replaced pole:
      (1)   Materially and demonstrably interferes with the safe operation of
traffic control equipment;
      (2)   Materially and demonstrably interferes with sight lines or clear
zones for transportation or pedestrians;
      (3)   Materially fails to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act
or similar federal or state standards regarding pedestrian access or movement;
      (4)   Applicant refuses to comply with the city's preferred locations in
§
97.04(A);
      (5)   Fails to comply with applicable codes; or
      (6)   Fails to comply with the provisions in this chapter.
(Ord. 09-12-19-A, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 97.07 CESSATION OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Voluntary cessation. Applicants intending to vacate a small cell
wireless facility site shall notify the city of this intent to vacate at least
30 days prior to the vacation.
   (B)   (1)   Abandonment. A permit for a small cell wireless facility that is
not operated for a continuous period of six months shall be deemed lapsed and
the site will be considered abandoned unless:
         (a)   The city has received notice from the same operator of intent to
resume operations within six months; or
         (b)   The city has received an application to transfer the permit to
another service provider.
      (2)   Removal of facilities and restoration of site. No later than 90
days from the date a small cell wireless facility has ceased operation, or from
the date of receipt of the applicant's notice of its intent to vacate the site,
the applicant or its authorized agent of the abandoned small cell wireless
facility shall remove all equipment and improvements associated with the use,
and shall restore the site to its original condition as shown on the plans
submitted with the original approved application. The owner or agent shall
provide written verification of the removal of the small cell wireless facility
within 30 days of the date the removal is completed.
   (C)   Failure to remove and restore.
      (1)   A small cell wireless facility that is not removed and the site has
not been restored in accordance with the requirements stated above, the site
shall be deemed to be a nuisance pursuant to city ordinance. The city may cause
the facility to be removed at the owner's/owners' expense or by calling any
bond or other financial assurance to pay for removal.
      (2)   For a single structure occupied by two or more users, this
subsection shall not apply while at least one user continues to actively use
the structure.
   (D)   Destruction of pole or city discontinuation of use. If a city owned
structure upon which a small cell wireless facility is located is damaged,
destroyed, or demolished by acts beyond city's control, the right for such
small cell wireless facility to continue occupying the structure shall cease.
Applicant may opt to construct a pole or structure to replace the damaged,
destroyed or demolished city structure in compliance with the requirements of
this chapter, including structural inspection and separate metering
requirements.
(Ord. 09-12-19-A, passed 10-10-2019)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Upon the failure of any entity to properly repair and restore any cut,
excavation, or alteration to the city right-of-way, or fail to maintain any
facility placed in the right-of-way, the city may authorize the repair or
restoration of the area in a proper manner and charge said cost to the entity
who violated this chapter (and/or the entity upon whose behalf the work was
done). In the event the city must make the repair or restoration, in addition
to its other remedies, the city shall have a lien under the authority of KRS
65.8840 for the abatement of nuisance conditions against any property of said
entities (if any) that the work directly benefits, or on whose behalf it was
undertaken. The lien shall be recorded in the Jefferson County Clerk's office
and shall bear interest at 12% per annum thereafter until paid.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies set out above, the city shall cite any
person, utility, company or entity for each violation of this chapter in an
amount not more than $500 per violation. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Further, if deemed necessary by the city to
protect the public ways and public utilities of the city any entity repeatedly
violating this chapter may be denied permission o make any future cuts or
excavations until it fully remedies past violations and pays any outstanding
fines.
(Ord. 09-12-19-A, passed 10-10-2019)
CHAPTER 98: NOISE
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Unlawful conduct
   
98.03   Standards for noise pollution; exemptions
   
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BONA FIDE FARMING OPERATION. The operation and maintenance of a farm,
situated on five contiguous acres or more of land used for the production of
livestock, poultry, poultry products, dairy, dairy products, or horticulture
products or for the growing of crops such as, but not limited to, tobacco,
corn, soybeans and wheat.
   CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION ACTIVITY. The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration, or repair of any building, structure or roadway, for
which all necessary and proper governmental permits have been obtained.
   INTENSITY. The magnitude and strength of noise.
   NOISE. The intensity, frequency, duration and character of sound or sounds
from a source or sources.
   PARKING LOTS. Any off-street parking facility for public use, and the
approaches to same, whether publicly or privately owned, and shall include but
not  be limited to: parks, shopping centers, restaurants, entertainment
centers, taverns, car washes, banking or financial institutions, whether
publicly or privately owned, operated or controlled.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, association, partnership, joint venture,
corporation or any private entity of any nature.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Capable of being distinctly heard by a person with normal
hearing.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any road, street, avenue, alley, boulevard, highway, lane or
court, including the berm, shoulder, or any public property adjacent thereto,
bridge, viaduct, trestle, and the approaches to them, or sidewalk.
   UNREASONABLE PERIOD OF TIME. A period of time in excess of that necessary to
accomplish:
      (1)   A danger warning with a horn or other audible signaling device; or
      (2)   The preservation of protection of property of the life, safety, or
welfare of a person or persons by use of an audible signaling device.
   UNREASONABLY LOUD, HARSH OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. Any manufactured noise plainly
audible at a distance of 50 feet from its point of origination or emanation.
   VEHICLE. Any machine or device in, on or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn on any right-of-way or parking lot.
(Ord. 07-09-20-B, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 98.02 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the City of Middletown to
make, continue, or cause to be made or continued, any unreasonable loud, harsh
or excessive noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others, unless the making and the
continuing of the noise is necessary for the protection or preservation of
property or the life, health or safety of a person or persons.
   (B)   The following acts are hereby declared to be unreasonably loud, harsh
or excessive noises in violation of this chapter, but the enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or other such audible signaling device on
any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any right-of-way, parking lot or
other public place, except as a danger warning, for an unreasonable period of
time;
      (2)   The use or operation of any radio, stereo, or other machine or
device for the producing, reproducing or amplification of sound in any vehicle
in such a manner as to create an unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise,
that disturbs the peace, quiet or comfort of others;
      (3)   The use or operation of, or allowing the use or operation of, any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, or other machine or device
for the producing or reproducing of sound in such a manner as to create an
unreasonably loud, harsh, or excessive noise which disturbs the peace, quiet
and comfort of others by creating or allowing a louder volume than is necessary
for the convenient hearing of the person or persons who are voluntarily in the
room, chamber, vehicle, or outside areas, in which any above described machine,
device or musical instrument is located;
      (4)   The use or operation of any vehicle in such a manner as to produce
any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise, or to discharge into the open
air the exhaust of any vehicle except through a muffler or other device which
will effectively prevent any unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noises
therefrom;
      (5)   Creation of any unreasonably loud, harsh, or excessive noise in
connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle, except as provided for
in §
98.03, or by the operation of any such vehicle;
      (6)   The use of any mechanical loudspeaker, amplifier, sound system,
stereo or radio on any moving or standing vehicle for advertising,
entertainment or any other purpose, in such a manner as to create an
unreasonably loud, harsh or excessive noise; and
      (7)   Allow a dog to habitually and incessantly bark as described in §
90.25
(Ord. 07-09-20-B, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 98.03 STANDARDS FOR NOISE POLLUTION; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Standards. The standards which shall be considered in determining
whether a violation of §
98.02 hereof exists shall include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The volume of the noise;
      (2)   The intensity of the noise;
      (3)   The volume and intensity of background noise, if any;
      (4)   The proximity of the noise to a residential area, place of public
accommodation such as a hotel, motel, inn, campground and the like, health care
facilities, churches or schools;
      (5)   The density of inhabitation in the area within which the noise
emanates;
      (6)   The time of day or night the noise occurs;
      (7)   The duration of the noise; and
      (8)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following uses and activities shall be exempt from §
98.02:
      (1)   Noises originating or emanating from safety signals, warning
devices, and emergency pressure relief valves;
      (2)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle or law
enforcement training facilities;
      (3)   Noises resulting from construction or demolition activity, provided
such activity takes place between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.; and 1:
00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Sunday;
      (4)   Noises relating from the use of farm machinery or other machinery
for agricultural purposes in bona fide farming operations;
      (5)   Noises relating to the use of lawn mowers or other machinery for
landscaping purposes between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
      (6)   The reasonable operation of electrical generators during power
outages;
      (7)   The operation of any aircraft in conformity with, or pursuant to,
federal law, federal air regulations and/or traffic control instructions;
      (8)   Noises resulting from any and all transportation, flood control,
utility company maintenance and construction operations at any time on rights-
of-way and noises from situations which may occur on private real property,
including in parking lots, deemed necessary to serve the best interest of the
public and to protect the public's health and well-being, including but not
limited to, street or hard surface sweeping or cleaning, debris and limb
removal, removal of downed wires, restoring electrical service, repairing
traffic signals, unplugging sewers, snow removal, house moving, vacuuming
catch-basins, removal of damaged poles and vehicles, repair of water hydrants
and mains, gas lines, oil lines, and sewers;
      (9)   Noises from activities conducted in public parks or playgrounds and
public or private school grounds, including but not limited to, school athletic
and school entertainment events;
      (10)   Noises from activities conducted on property owned or operated by
civic, charitable or religious organizations, including but not limited to,
neighborhood or church festivals and entertainment events;
      (11)   Noises from activities at parades, provided a valid parade permit
has been obtained from the city government;
      (12)   Noises from activities at firework displays, provided all
necessary permits have been obtained;
      (13)   Noises from activities conducted on rights-of-way of the City of
Middletown, including, but not limited to, festivals and entertainment events,
provided all necessary permits have been obtained;
      (14)   Noises relating to the collection of refuse between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 07-09-20-B, passed 8-13-2020)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall be classified as a civil offense and
shall be enforced either through the Middletown Police Department, or through
the City Code Enforcement Officer and the Code Enforcement Board ("Board") as
provided in
Chapter 39 of the City of Middletown ordinances, or as it may be amended.
   (B)   Any person violating any section of this chapter shall be fined not
less than $100 nor more than $250 for a first offense within a two-year period.
Any person violating any section of this chapter a second time within a two-
year period shall be fined not less than $250 nor more than $500. Any person
violating any section of this chapter a third time within a two-year period
shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000. Each separate
occurrence or each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense. It shall be a defense for an owner,
lessee, or occupant of any premises involved in an offense by some other party,
if there is posted on said property a sign, adequately noticeable in size (no
larger than 12 square feet), which contains sufficient warnings as to the
liability applicable for noise pollution violations. Said sign shall not
contain any other messages such as advertising for said business.
   (C)   Any person cited pursuant to this chapter may pay the minimum civil
penalty within seven days from the date of the issuance or request a hearing
regarding such penalty to the Board in accordance with
Chapter 39 of the City of Middletown ordinances. If the person fails to respond
to this citation within seven days as referenced above, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing. In this event, the Board shall
enter a final order determining that the violation was committed and impose the
civil penalty set forth in the citation. Each day that a violation continues
after a citation has been issued or notice has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 07-09-20-B, passed 8-13-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   PAWNBROKERS
      
112.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
114.   BUSINESS LICENSING AND OCCUPATIONAL TAXATION
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Adopted by reference
§ 110.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   KRS §§ 365.650 to 365.695, as it may be amended from time, are adopted by
reference and made a part hereof as if appearing in total.
CHAPTER 111: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
111.01   Adopted by reference
§ 111.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   KRS Chapter 226, as it may be amended from time, are adopted by reference
and made a part hereof as if appearing in total.
CHAPTER 112: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
112.01   Imposition of license fee
   
112.02   Fees to be paid to General Revenue Fund
   
112.03   Basis for license fee
   
112.04   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
112.05   Due date; interest and refunds
   
112.06   Written breakdown of collections
   
112.07   Inspection of records and accounts
   
112.08   Liability of agents
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee (hereinafter
referred to as a local government premiums tax, "LGPT"), for the privilege of
engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits of the city,
on a calendar-year basis, based upon the following:
   (A)   PREMIUMS is defined as premiums actually collected by an insurance
company within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of policies and
contracts of insurance on risks located within the city and includes premiums
on new policies and contracts of insurance and on renewal business, as well as
all other classes of premiums, less all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) below, the license fee
imposed upon each insurance company which issues any insurance policy or
contract of insurance shall be the following percentage of premiums on those
classes of insurance which such company is authorized to issue (the "Base
Fee"):
                        Initial Rate
Fire and Allied Perils  5%
Casualty Liability Only 5%
Vehicle                 5%
Inland Marine           5%
Health                  0%
Life                    5%
All other Risks Taxed   5%
   The Base Fee shall not apply to premiums exempted by state or federal law.
   (C)   In addition to the Base Fee, an additional license fee in the amount
of 7.5% is hereby imposed by the city upon each insurance company on the
premiums for each class of insurance listed in division (B) above, provided
that Louisville Metro has raised its LGPT rate from 5% to 12.5% effective July
1, 2019 for any of the classes of insurance listed in division (B) above. In
the event the Louisville Metro LGPT effective July 1, 2019 is raised to an
amount different than 12.5%, but more than the city's Base Fee, the city hereby
imposes an additional license fee on each class of insurance listed in division
(B) above, equal to the city LGPT credit allowable under KRS 91A.080(12). In
the event the Louisville Metro LGPT effective July 1, 2019 remains 5% for any
class of insurance listed in division (B) above, the city's Base Fee shall
apply.
(Ord. 02-14-19-A, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 112.02 FEES TO BE PAID TO GENERAL REVENUE FUND.
   The license fee or tax established by this chapter is imposed and levied for
the purpose of general revenue funds and shall be paid into the general fund of
the city.
(Ord. 02-14-19-A, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 112.03 BASIS FOR LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee or tax imposed by a city upon each insurance company with
respect to life insurance policies may be based upon the first year's premiums
and shall be applied to the amount of the premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter upon the lives of persons residing within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 02-14-19-A, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 112.04 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company with
respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be of the
premiums actually collected by the insurance company within each calendar
quarter on risks located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which the insurance company is authorized to transact, less
all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (B)   The license fee or tax shall also not apply to premiums:
      (1)   Received on policies of group health insurance provided for state
employees under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Received on policies insuring employers against liability for
personal injuries to their employees or the death of their employees caused
thereby, under the provisions of KRS Chapter 342;
      (3)   Received on health insurance policies issued to individuals;
      (4)   Received on policies issued through Kentucky Access created in
Subtitle l7B of KRS Chapter 304;
      (5)   Received on policies for high deductible health plans as defined in
26 U.S.C.223(c)(2);
      (6)   Received on multi-state surplus lines, defined as non-admitted
insurance as provided in Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act Pub.; or
      (7)   Paid to insurance companies or surplus lines brokers by non-profit
self-insurance groups or self-insurance entities whose membership consists of
cities, counties, charter county government, urban-county government,
consolidated local government, unified local government, school districts, or
any other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth.
   (C)   No license fee or tax imposed under this section shall apply to
premiums paid to insurers of municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments
issued by or on behalf of a city, county, charter county government, urban-
county government, consolidated local government, special district, non-profit
corporation, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth. However, this
exemption shall not apply if the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organizations.
(Ord. 02-14-19-A, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 112.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter;
   (B)   Any insurance company or agent that overpays any license fee or tax to
a city shall be refunded the amount overpaid. If it is determined that an
insurance company or agent paid a license fee or tax to a city based upon
premiums collected upon lives or risks which are discovered to be located
outside the legal corporate limits of the city which was paid the license fee
or tax, the insurance company or agent shall be refunded those license fees and
taxes within 90 days' notice to the city paid.
   (C)   License fees which are not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the date
due until paid.
(Ord. 02-14-19-A, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 112.06 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland Marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 02-14-19-A, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 112.07 INSPECTION OF RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS.
   Every insurance company subject to license fees or tax shall maintain
records adequate to support the reports required to be filed under this
chapter. Authority is given to the City of Middletown or a representative
thereof to make inspection of the books, accounts and records of the agent or
insurance company to verify the correctness of any report or breakdown of
collections.
(Ord. 02-14-19-A, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 112.08 LIABILITY OF AGENTS.
   This section applies to insurance agents and surplus lines brokers to the
extent they are responsible for collection, reporting, and payment of license
fees or taxes pursuant to KRS 91A.080.
(Ord. 02-14-19-A, passed 3-14-2019)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.080, willful failure to properly collect and remit the
license fees or taxes imposed by this chapter may constitute grounds for the
revocation of the license issued to an insurance company or agent under the
provisions of KRS Chapter 304 or may result in other penalties being imposed by
the State Office of Insurance.
(Ord. 02-14-19-A, passed 3-14-2019)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
113.01   Adoption of state alcoholic beverage control law
   
113.02   Published notice of application
   
113.03   Delinquent taxes; license withheld
   
113.04   Forfeitures
   
113.05   Compliance
   
113.06   Conditions
   
113.07   Issuance of license; receipt of fees
   
113.08   Revocation or suspension of license
   
113.09   Transfer of license or business
   
113.10   Spirits; hours of sale
   
113.11   Beer; hours of sale
   
113.12   Minors; prohibitions governing
   
113.13   Display of printed warning
   
113.14   Treating prohibited
   
113.15   Premises
   
113.16   Books and records
   
113.17   Spirits outside locked department
   
113.18   Operation without a license
   
113.19   Sales of alcohol to minors prohibited
   
113.20   Proof of age required
   
113.21   Failure to pay fines
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 ADOPTION OF STATE ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL LAW.
   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws and Administrative
Regulations of the Commonwealth of Kentucky (KRS Chapters 241, 243, and 244),
and all amendments and supplements thereto, are adopted as far as applicable as
a portion of this chapter except as otherwise lawfully provided herein. The
City of Middletown Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) Administrator shall
administer all Alcoholic Beverage Control Ordinances and regulations of the
city and all statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky relating thereto and the
regulations of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.02 PUBLISHED NOTICE OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The ABC Administrator shall not approve any application for an
original license to sell alcoholic beverages until the applicant has caused to
be published a concise advertisement in accordance with the provisions of KRS
243.360.
   (B)   Applicant shall post notice of its intent to apply for an original
license to sell alcoholic beverages, any amendments to an original license, or
application for additional license to sell alcoholic beverages. The notice must
be posted conspicuously on the property at the time the applicant publishes its
notice of intent to apply for the license and remain posted for 30 days. The
posting shall be in at least 28 point font size, on at least 24 inches by 36
inches yellow paper of durable material.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015; Ord. 05-12-22-B, passed 6-9-2022)
§ 113.03 DELINQUENT TAXES; LICENSE WITHHELD.
   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be granted to any person who is
delinquent in the payment of any taxes due to the city at the time of issuing
the license. Nor shall any license be granted to sell on any premises or
property, owned and occupied by the licensee, on which there are any delinquent
taxes or liens due to the government. Where the property or premises on which a
license to sell is sought, is rented or occupied by the applicant for a license
but is owned by another, no license shall be granted if the taxes or liens of
the city due on the property or premises have not been paid. In such cases, the
ABC Administrator may, in his or her discretion, issue a license to sell after
receiving from the city a written statement to the effect that the applicant
for the license and the owner of the property or premises on which the license
is sought have made arrangements with the city, satisfactory to it, for taking
care of the indebtedness represented by the unpaid and delinquent taxes or
liens referred to above.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.04 FORFEITURES.
   If any license issued under this chapter is revoked or cancelled for any
reason by the ABC Administrator, the licensee shall forfeit any and all claims,
which the licensee might otherwise have had to any portion of the license fee
paid by the licensee on the issuing of the license.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.05 COMPLIANCE.
   No license shall be issued or renewed to any person for selling at retail or
wholesale any alcoholic beverages at any premises or location where such
business or associated activities are prohibited under, or are in violation or
conflict with any regulation, including but not limited to signs, fire
prevention and/or the zoning code and regulations of the city and any ordinance
supplementary or amendatory to it, and any license issued in violation of this
section shall be void. Any zoning restrictions that may apply shall be noted on
the license at the time of issuance.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.06 CONDITIONS.
   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be granted subject to the
following conditions, and all other conditions of other ordinances and
regulations of the city applicable thereto and all rules and regulations duly
adopted by the ABC Administrator.
   (A)   Each licensed premises shall at all times be conducted in an orderly
manner and no disorderly, riotous, or indecent conduct shall be allowed at any
time on any licensed premises and no nuisance suffered, permitted or maintained
thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to sell, keep
or permit to be sold, or kept on the licensed premises any controlled
substances as defined in KRS Chapter 218A. In addition to otherpenalties set
out in this chapter for the violation of this section the ABC Administrator
shall also have the authority to revoke the license issued to the premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any employee of any
licensee, to permit or allow acts of prostitution, gambling or the possession
of any gambling device on the licensed premises.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or employee of any licensee, to
allow the premises to become overcrowded or violate any ordinance or regulation
of the Fire Prevention or Fire Marshal offices.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.07 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RECEIPT OF FEES.
    All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved and issued by the
ABC Administrator and shall be good for one year, through the license
expiration date of October 31. All license fees from licenses issued under this
chapter shall be collected by the ABC Administrator. Fees for licenses approved
for a portion of the license year shall be pro-rated.
Distiller’s license, per annum                                        $500
Rectifier’s license, per annum                                        $3,000
Wholesaler’s distilled spirit and wine license, per annum             $3,000
Quota retail package license, per annum                                 $1,200
Quota retail drink license, per annum                                   $1,600
Special temporary license, per event                                    $266.66
 
Nonquota Type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine  $2,000
and malt beverages), per annum
Nonquota Type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine  $1,800
and malt beverages), per annum
Nonquota Type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled spirits, wine  $300
and malt beverages), per annum
Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction license, per event $200
Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum                          $300
Extended hours supplemental license, per annum                          $2,000
Caterer’s license, per annum                                          $800
Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum             $1,000
Malt beverage licenses as follows:                                       
   Brewer’s license, per annum                                     $500
   Microbrewery license, per annum                                   $500
   Malt beverage distributor’s license, per annum                  $400
   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license, per annum          $200
   Nonquota Type 4 retail malt beverage drink license, per annum     $200
   Malt beverage brew-on- premises license, per annum                $100
Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine and malt   $1,800
beverages), per annum
Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine and malt  $1,800
beverages), per annum
 
(Ord. 07-14-22-A, passed 8-11-2022)
§ 113.08 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or any amendment
thereof, by a duly authorized agent or employee of a licensee shall constitute
a violation by the licensee. Whenever any licensee shall violate any provision
of this chapter or any ordinance relating to the subject of alcoholic beverage
control or any of the rules or regulations of the ABC Administrator, or any of
the provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky, or any amendments or supplements thereto, or any of the rules and
regulations adopted by the Kentucky State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, or
any acts of Congress, or rule or regulation of any federal board, agency or
commission relative to the regulation and taxation of alcoholic beverages;
proceedings for the revocation of the license shall be instituted in the manner
and under the procedure established by the Kentucky State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Law.
   (B)   For a violation of any section of this chapter or any amendment
thereof or of any rule or regulation of the ABC Administrator, or of any rule
or regulation of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, or any acts of
Congress or rule or regulation of any federal board, agency or commission
relative to the regulation and taxation of alcoholic beverages, or on
conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction for any such violation, the
city and empowered to order the revocation or suspension of any license issued
under this chapter.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.09 TRANSFER OF LICENSE OR BUSINESS.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned by the
holder, except as provided in the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, KRS 243.630 and per approval of the ABC
Administrator.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.10 SPIRITS; HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Retail package distilled spirits and wine. The lawful operating hours
for a licensee to sell, permit to be sold, or deliver distilled spirits or wine
are as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday;
      (2)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. on any day of the week
if the licensee has an extended hour supplemental license.
   (B)   Retail drink distilled spirits and wine. The lawful operating hours
for a license to sell, serve, or permit the consumption of distilled spirits or
wine are as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday;
      (2)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday, unless the
licensee has a special Sunday retail drink license that allows operating hours
to begin at 10:00 a.m. To be eligible for the special Sunday retail drink
license, the licensee much receive at least 50% of its gross receipts from the
sale of food or have one of the following licenses set forth in Kentucky
Revised Statute: qualified historic site license (KRS 243.042), nonquota Type 1
(KRS 243.082), or nonquota Type 2 (KRS 243.084); and
      (3)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. on any day of the week
if the licensee has an extended hour supplemental license.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.11 BEER; HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Retail malt beverage package. The lawful operating hours for a
licensee to sell, permit to be sold, or deliver malt beverages are as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday;
      (2)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. on any day of the week
if the licensee has an extended hour supplemental license.
   (B)   Retail malt beverage drink. The lawful operating hours for a licensee
to sell, serve or permit the consumption of malt beverages are as follows:
      (1)   Between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday;
      (2)   Between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 11:59 p.m. on Sunday, unless the
licensee has a special Sunday malt beverages retail drink license that allows
operating hours to begin at 10:00 a.m. To be eligible for the special Sunday
malt beverages retail drink license, the licensee must receive at least 50% of
its gross receipts from the sale of food or have one of the following licenses
set forth in Kentucky Revised Statute: qualified historic site license (KRS
243.042), nonquota Type 1 (KRS 243.082), or nonquota Type 2 (KRS 243.084).
      (3)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. on any day of the week
if the licensee has an extended hour supplemental license.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.12 MINORS; PROHIBITIONS GOVERNING.
   The provisions of KRS Chapter 244 and KAR Chapter 804 involving prohibitions
governing minors shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.13 DISPLAY OF PRINTED WARNING.
   The provisions of KRS 244.083 requiring the display of printed warnings
shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the
city.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.14 TREATING PROHIBITED.
   The provisions of KRS 244.050 prohibiting treating shall apply to licensees
and licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.15 PREMISES.
   Upon the initial application for an alcoholic beverage license, the ABC
Administrator shall not grant the license under this chapter to any applicant
until the applicant and the applicant's place of business have been approved by
the Board of Health and the Fire Prevention Bureau. Upon renewal of an
alcoholic beverage license, the requirement of approval by the Board of Health
and Fire Prevention Bureau before issuance will be waived if the applicant's
business has been approved by the Board of Health and Fire Prevention Bureau
during the licensing period. Premises being licensed for the retail sales of
package distilled spirits and wine may be exempted from the Board of Health
approval unless otherwise required by the Board of Health.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.16 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The provisions of KRS 244.150 and 804 KAR 4:100 requiring the retention of
books and records shall apply to licensees and licensed premises within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.17 SPIRITS OUTSIDE LOCKED DEPARTMENT.
   The provisions of KRS Chapter 44 and KAR Chapter 7 pertaining to the
discovery of spirits outside a locked department shall apply to licensees and
licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.18 OPERATION WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   The provisions of KRS 243.020 pertaining to licensing shall apply to
licensees and licensed premises within the jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.19 SALES OF ALCOHOL TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Every licensee selling alcoholic beverages by retail sales shall
notify each individual employed in retail sales that the sale of alcoholic
beverages to any person under the age of 21 years is prohibited.
   (B)   A notice to employees shall be provided before the employee commences
work as a retail sales clerk. The employee shall signify receipt of the notice
required by this section by signing a form that states as follows: “I
understand that under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky it is illegal to
sell alcoholic beverages to persons under the age of 21 years.”
   (C)   The licensee shall maintain the signed acknowledgment required in
division (B) in a place and manner so as to be easily accessible to any city
Police Officer or the ABC Administrator or his or her employees conducting an
inspection of the retail outlet for purposes of monitoring compliance in
limiting the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages to persons under the
age of 21 years.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.20 PROOF OF AGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every licensee selling alcoholic beverages by retail sales shall
notify each employee employed in retail sales that proof of age is required
from a prospective buyer if it is reasonable to believe that the prospective
buyer is under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   The following unaltered written instruments are the only acceptable
types of identification:
      (1)   An unexpired driver's license issued by any state, provided such
license contains a picture of the person;
      (2)   An official identification card issued by any state, provided such
identification includes a picture of the person;
      (3)   A United States Armed Forces identification card, provided such
identification includes a picture of the person;
      (4)   An unexpired passport issued by a government and which contains a
picture of the person and date of birth.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.21 FAILURE TO PAY FINES.
   The failure of any person or entity to pay any fine imposed upon such person
or entity by the ABC Administrator or hearing officer for violations of
Middletown Code Chapter 113 within 30 days of its imposition shall be grounds
for the issuance of an order by the ABC Administrator revoking the eligibility
for employment of that person by licensees, or revoking the license issued by
the ABC Administrator.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalties for violations of Middletown Code
Chapter 113 that pertain to alcoholic beverage laws that are set forth in KRS
Chapters 241 through 244 shall be the same as provided by such chapters.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 18 years who violates any provisions of
Middletown Code
Chapter 113 shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure prescribed by
statute for minors charged with the commission of a public offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $250 nor more than $1,000, imprisoned not more than 50 days, or
both.
   (D)   The fines imposed under divisions (A) - (C) shall be in addition to
and independent of any action which may be taken by the Alcoholic Beverage
Administrator, in accordance with the provisions of the State of Kentucky
Alcoholic Beverage Control laws and Administrative Rules and Regulations.
   (E)   In addition to any criminal penalties that may be prescribed, any
person or entity that violates the provisions of Middletown Code
Chapter 113 shall appear before the ABC Administrator or the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board hearing officer for a civil hearing, and is subject to a civil
penalty of not less than $200 and not more than $500 for each violation if
convicted. This section shall not apply to obligations imposed upon the ABC
Administrator or his or her employees under those sections.
(Ord. 08-13-15-A, passed 9-10-2015)
CHAPTER 114: BUSINESS LICENSING AND OCCUPATIONAL TAXATION
Section
Business License Fee
   
114.01   License required for businesses and occupations
   
114.02   Business or occupation required to pay amount of tax
   
114.03   Business license fee
   
114.04   Late payment penalty
   
114.05   City Clerk to issue license
   
114.06   Purpose; fee to be deposited in General Fund
Occupational License Fee
   
114.20   Short title
   
114.21   Definitions
   
114.22   Applicability
   
114.23   Occupational license fees imposed
   
114.24   Apportionment of occupational license fees
   
114.25   Specific receipts excluded from occupational license fee
   
114.26   Employer located outside city
   
114.27   Collector designated
   
114.28   Occupational license fee reporting; withholding
   
114.29   Collection of license fees; records
   
114.30   Purpose; fees to be deposited in General Fund
   
114.31   Information deemed confidential; penalty for disclosure
   
114.32   Collector’s duties
   
114.33   Procedure for applying for refund of overpayment
   
114.34   Failure to file return; failure to pay; underpayments
 
   
114.99   Penalty
BUSINESS LICENSE FEE
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR BUSINESSES AND OCCUPATIONS.
   Within the city limits it shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
organization, corporation, or other profit or non-profit legal entity to engage
in any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or undertaking of
any nature, without first procuring a license and paying the required license
fee.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.02 BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION REQUIRED TO PAY AMOUNT OF TAX.
   Each person, firm, organization, corporation, or other profit or non-profit
legal entity owning, operating, conducting, or engaging in any business,
occupation, trade, or profession, as defined in §
114.01, whether operated or conducted separately or in connection with another
business, occupation, trade, or profession shall pay the required license fee.
The person designated by the city as the license fee collector and
administrator is charged with the enforcement of these provisions and shall
have all the powers, duties and authority set out in this chapter.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.03 BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   Each person, firm, organization, corporation, or other profit or non-profit
legal entity owning, operating, conducting, or engaging in any business,
whether operated or conducted separately or in connection with another
business, occupation, trade, or profession, in any calendar year shall pay an
annual business license fee of $50. On or before November 1 of each year, the
taxpayer shall make an annual registration to the city, on a form furnished by
the city, providing contact information about the business and detailing such
other information about the business being conducted in the city as is required
by the form.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.04 LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   Any business which does not submit its annual registration and pay its
annual business license fee shall be subject to a fine of 10% and with interest
at a rate of 1.5% per month until paid.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.05 CITY CLERK TO ISSUE LICENSE.
   Every person desiring to obtain a city license for any of the businesses
enumerated shall receive a certificate from the City Clerk. The certificate
shall be evidence of the fact that the license tax has been fully paid. The
license certificate shall be void and of no effect without the signature of the
City Clerk. Every person holding a license for any of the purposes mentioned
herein shall keep the license posted in their place of business, if any, in a
conspicuous place, or if they have no particular place of business, shall keep
the license on their person, so that it may be inspected upon request by the
proper authorities, and every person holding a city license shall produce the
license for inspection whenever required to do so by the Collector, City Clerk,
City Treasurer, or other proper agent or officer of the city. No license shall
be assigned or transferred to any person for any reason at any time, except by
authority of the city.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.06 PURPOSE; FEES TO BE DEPOSITED IN GENERAL FUND.
   Pursuant to KRS 92.330, the purpose of this subchapter is to fund the cost
of government services that are essential to the successful operation of
commercial enterprise in the city; including, but not limited to, police
protection, sanitation, public works, the maintenance, and capital improvement
of the public infrastructure, which is used daily by the business community and
its patrons. All revenue received from the payment of license taxes and
penalties required by this chapter shall be paid into and become a pmt of the
general fund of the city to be used for the general operating expenses of the
city.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE
§ 114.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be referred to as the Middletown Occupational License
Fee Ordinance.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023; Ord. 10-12-2023-B, passed 10-12-2023)
§ 114.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION. A partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, or any other
form of unincorporated enterprise, owned or engaged in by two or more persons.
   CITY. The City of Middletown, Kentucky.
   COLLECTOR.  The person designated by the city as the license fee collector
and administrator under this subchapter.
   COMMISSION MERCHANT or COMMISSION EMPLOYEE. Any person who engages in the
sale of goods for compensation in the form of a commission only. Also, any
person who buys and resells goods, if the person does not maintain a retail
store or wholesale sales floor, and does not store goods except during short
periods before transportation to the buyer.
   COMPENSATION. The compensation paid by any employer, regardless of whether
the employer is a for-profit or a non-profit entity, to any employee, including
wages, salaries, commissions, bonuses, and all other kinds of employee
compensation whatsoever. COMPENSATION also includes commission received by a
commission merchant or commission employee. COMPENSATION as herein defined does
not include fringe benefits paid for by an employer.
   CORPORATION. A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Kentucky, or any other state,
territory, foreign country, or dependency.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person engaging in or following any trade, occupation,
profession, or activity as defined herein and receiving compensation consisting
of either wages, salary, commission, or other forms of compensation. The
substance and not the form shall govern, and no employee working under the
supervision of another person shall be considered to be an independent
contractor merely because a contract has been signed making it appear that the
employee is an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. Any individual, person, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body or unit or administration or agency, or any other activity or
any other entity, who or that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage,
commission, or other compensation basis. EMPLOYER shall also mean the person or
entity liable for the withholding of occupational license fees from the
compensation of an employee.
   FIRM. Any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, joint venture,
limited partnership, or other form of organization formed for the purpose of
doing business.
   INDIVIDUAL. A natural person.
   LICENSEE. Any person required to pay a license fee under this subchapter.
   OCCUPATION, TRADE, PROFESSION, OR OTHER ACTIVITY. The doing of any kind of
work, the rendering of any kind of personal service, the holding of any kind of
position or job within the city, by any clerk, laborer, tradesman, manager,
official, or other employee, where the relationship between the individual
performing the services and the person for whom such services are rendered, is,
as to those services, the legal relationship of employer and employee,
including also a partner of the firm or officer who receives a salary for his
personal services rendered in the business of the firm or corporation; and
shall also include an officer or employee employed either by election or
appointment, by the federal, state, county, or city, where the services of the
official or employee are rendered within the city.
   PERSON.  Any natural person, co-partnership, fiduciary, association, or
corporation. Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty in
the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership or
other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and directors
thereof.
   RESIDENT. Any natural person, co-partnership, fiduciary, association,
corporation, or other entity domiciled or having a business situs in the city.
   SALARIES, WAGES, COMMISSIONS, AND OTHER COMPENSATIONS or WAGES. The total
gross amount of all salaries, wages, commissions, bonuses, shares of net
partnership receipts or withdrawals, corporate dividends paid in lieu of
salaries or wages, any 1099 or other incomes which are required to be reported
for federal income tax purposes, and any and all other payments or other
considerations which a person receives from, or is entitled to, for any work
done or personal services rendered within the city in any trade, occupation, or
profession, or any other activity, including all deductions whether for tax,
insurance, or other, but excluding fringe benefits paid for by an employer.
Amounts paid to traveling salesmen or other workers as allowance or
reimbursement for travel or other expenses incurred in the business of the
employer, except to the extent of the excess of such amounts over such expenses
actually incurred and accounted for by the employee to his employer, are
excluded.
   SALES WITHIN THE CITY. Sales of merchandise delivered to a customer within
the city, or services performed within the city for a customer.
   TREASURER. The treasurer of the City of Middletown, Kentucky.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023; Ord. 10-12-2023-B, passed 10-12-2023)
§ 114.22 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The occupational license fee shall apply only to employees of persons,
firms, corporations, and associations doing business within the boundaries of
the city.
   (B)   A person, firm, corporation, or association is doing business within
the boundaries of the city if the entity does any of the following:
      (1)   Employs one or more employees, commission merchants, or commission
employees to work in the city.
      (2)   Maintains a place of business within the city.
      (3)   Owns, manages, or leases property in the city. Managing rental
property owned by the entity or by others is included.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.23 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES IMPOSED.
   Beginning January 1, 2024 and thereafter, there is levied and imposed an
annual occupational license fee upon all persons engaged in any occupation,
trade, profession, or business in the city, for the privilege of engaging in
the occupation, trade, profession, or business. The occupational license fee
shall be measured by and be equal to 1% of the gross annual salaries, wages, or
other compensations as defined herein earned by any such persons for work done
or services performed or rendered within the city in the 12 months next
preceding the return to be filed as required in this chapter. The city may
further detail specific types of compensation to be taxed in a policy document
which shall be approved by the City Commission.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023; Ord. 10-12-2023-B, passed 10-12-2023)
§ 114.24 APPORTIONMENT OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEES.
   Where salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensations are earned for
work performed or services rendered both within and without the city,
occupational license fees shall be measured by such part of the salaries,
wages, commissions, and other compensations as is earned as a result of work
performed or services rendered in the city. Such occupational license fees
shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the compensation for work
performed or services rendered within the city bears to the total compensation
earned, in accordance with KRS 67.753.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.25 SPECIFIC RECEIPTS EXCLUDED FROM OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.
   The following money receipts are not deemed to be salaries, wages,
commissions, and other compensations and net profits, within the meaning of
this subchapter.
   (A)   Old age or retirement payments. Periodic payments commonly recognized
as old age or retirement pensions, made to persons retired fromservice after
reaching a specific age or a stated period of employment, are not subject to
the license fee.
   (B)   Disability, sickness, and accident benefits, unemployment
compensation, and other insurance payment received from personal injuries or
property losses. Payments to employees by an employer under disability,
sickness, and accident benefit plan are not subject to the license fee.
Unemployment compensation payments by the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or any
other agent, are not subject to the occupational license fee. Payments received
for personal injuries and property losses are not subject to the occupational
license fee.
   (C)   Death benefits. Death benefits payable to the beneficiary of an
employee or to their estate, whether payable in a single sum or otherwise, are
not subject to the occupational license fee.
   (D)   Worker's compensation benefits. Benefits arising under the Worker's
Compensation Act as compensation for disabilities sustained during the course
of employment, together with any amount of damages received by suit or
agreement, on account of such disability are not subject to the occupational
license fee.
   (E)   Any income exempt from occupational taxation by state or federal law.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.26 EMPLOYER LOCATED OUTSIDE CITY.
   Employers located outside of the city are subject to withholding of
occupational license fees on the salaries, wages, commissions, and other
compensation of employees where the employer is doing business in the city as
defined in §
114.22.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.27 COLLECTOR DESIGNATED.
   (A)   The Collector is charged with the enforcement of these provisions, and
is empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate, and enforce rules and regulations
relating to any matter pertaining to the administration and enforcement of
these provisions, including but not limited to provisions for the reexamination
and correction of returns to which an underpayment or overpayment is claimed or
found to have been made. The rules and regulations as promulgated by the
collector shall be binding upon the licensee and employers. However, all such
rules, regulations, and decisions shall be subject to the consent and approval
of the City of Middletown Commission.
   (B)   The Collector, or any agent or employee designated by the Collector in
writing, may examine the books, papers, and records of any employee or supposed
employee of any licensee or supposed licensee in order to determine the
accuracy of any return made, or, if no return was made, to ascertain and assess
the amount of occupational license fee imposed by the terms of this subchapter,
as the Collector may deem this reasonably necessary for purposes incident to
the performance of the Collector's duties hereunder. The Collector may enforce
this right by application to the appropriate court having jurisdiction over
these matters.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.28 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE REPORTING; WITHHOLDING.
   (A)   Each employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
obtain from the city an occupational license fee reporting number.
   (B)   Each employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
deduct monthly, or more often than monthly, at the time of payment thereof, the
occupational license fee due from each employee measured by the amount of
salaries, wages, commissions, or compensation due by the employer to the
employee subject to the occupational license fee and shall pay to the Treasurer
the amount of occupational license fee so deducted. The payment required to be
made on account of deductions by employers shall be made quarterly to the City
Treasurer for the quarterly periods ending on the last day of March, June,
September, and December of each year, on or before the last day of the month
next following the quarter of the deduction and employers shall file an
employer's quarterly return of license fee withheld. However, the Collector
may, by regulation, require employers to make returns and to remit the
occupational license fees withheld more frequently.
   (C)   Each employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
annually file by the last day in February each year an annual report of
employee's payroll withholding form to the collector, in which return is set
forth the name and residence of each employee of the employer, employed during
the preceding calendar year, his or her social security number (or other
federal identification number), setting forth the total amount of salaries,
wages, commissions, or other compensations earned during the preceding calendar
year by each employee and the amount thereof earned within the city and subject
to the occupational license fee imposed by this subchapter. It shall be the
duty of each employer who has deducted the occupational license fee from the
wages, salaries, commission, or other compensation referred to above, to
furnish the employee a statement showing the amount of salary earned and
occupational license fee deducted and paid by the employer during the preceding
calendar year, on or before the last day of January of each year. However, the
failure or omission of any employer to deduct the occupational license fee
shall not relieve the employee from the payment of the occupational license fee
and compliance with such regulation with respect to making returns and payments
thereof, as may be fixed in this subchapter or established by the Collector.
   (D)   An employer who deducts and withholds the city occupational license
fee from one or more persons under employ and who fails to file a return and
make payment therewith shall in addition to the penalties prescribed herein
upon conviction be subject to a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500,
or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both fine and imprisonment, for
each offense. Such criminal penalties shall be in addition to the penalties
imposed above.
   (E)   The Collector shall have the authority to extend the time of filing
the occupational license fee return. Extension shall be upon the written
request of the licensee and shall be received by the Collector prior to the due
date of the occupational license fee return. The written request shall be
accompanied by a copy of the appropriate state or federal applications for
extension. Regardless of the number of extensions approved, all occupational
license fees remaining unpaid after they become due shall bear interest at the
rate of 1.5% per month (or part thereof) until paid. All occupational license
fees remaining unpaid for 30 days after the original due date, or approved
extension date, whichever shall be later, shall be subject to a 10% penalty of
the amount of such unpaid occupational license fees, or $10, whichever shall be
greater.
   (F)   Each person filing a return shall provide a copy of Form Schedule C,
1040 (Profit or Loss from Business or Profession); Form Schedule E, I 040
(Supplemental Income from Rents, etc.); Form 765 or 1065 (partnerships); Form
741 or 1041 (Fiduciary/Estate-Trusts); Form 720 or 1120 (Corporations), as
applicable.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.29 COLLECTION OF LICENSE FEES; RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Collector to collect and the Treasurer to
receive the occupational license fees imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall give a receipt to the Collector for such fees and
shall keep records showing the amount paid by each licensee and employer and
the date of such receipt.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.30 PURPOSE; FEES TO BE DEPOSITED IN GENERAL FUND.
   (A)   All moneys derived from occupational license fees under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be paid to the City Treasurer and placed to the credit
of the General Revenue Fund of the city. The revenue therefrom shall be used
and expended in defraying cmTent, general, and incidental expenses of the city
and for capital improvements.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide revenue for the
general fund of the city and it is not the intention of the city or of this
subchapter to impose and require any occupational license fee prohibited by
law. Pursuant to KRS 92.330, the purpose of this subchapter is to fund the cost
of government services that are essential to the successful operation of
commercial enterprise in the city; including, but not limited to, police
protection, sanitation, public works, and the maintenance and capital
improvement of the public infrastructure, which is used daily by the business
community and its patrons.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.31 INFORMATION DEEMED CONFIDENTIAL; PENALTY FOR DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Any information, including returns, documents, or payments made
pursuant hereto, and any other information gained by the Treasurer, Collector,
or any other official, agent, or employee of the city as a result of any
return, investigation, hearing, or verification required or authorized by this
subchapter shall be confidential except in accordance with proper judicial
order. Any person or agent divulging such information shall, upon conviction,
be subjected to a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200, or imprisonment
not to exceed 60 days, or both, at the discretion of the court, and, upon
conviction, shall be dismissed from employment by the city.
   (B)   However, such person may disclose to the commissioner of revenue of
the state, or their duly authorized agent, or to the Commissioner of the
Internal Revenue Service, or their duly authorized agent, all such information,
and extend the right to inspect any of the books and records of the city to the
commissioner of revenue of the state and to the Commissioner of the Internal
Revenue Service, who must grant to the city the reciprocal right to obtain
information from the files and records of the department of revenue of the
state and from the files and records of the Internal Revenue Service; and
maintains the privilege character of the information so furnished to them.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.32 COLLECTOR'S DUTIES.
   The collector shall have the following duties in connection with the
occupational license tax.
   (A)   Keep accurate records of all returns and of all sums received for
occupational license taxes. Such records shall contain the names and addresses
of each taxpayer, and the dates and amounts of payments. The nature of
installment payments shall be indicated in the records. The collector shall
keep the original returns on file for a period of not less than three years
after filing.
   (B)   Enforce the provisions of this subchapter, all in accordance with any
policies set forth in any ordinance, municipal order, or executive order.
   (C)   Prepare forms and instructions for the returns and payments required
by this subchapter. All instructions shall be clear and shall be as short as
possible.
   (D)   Examine returns and, for any returns appearing to be incorrect, make
inquiries, investigations, and adjustments in the amount of tax due.
   (E)   Where necessary to determine accurate figures for determining the
amount of tax due, examine books, records, and information stored in computers
of any taxpayer, provided that each city officer or employee acting under this
provision shall identify themselves and request the information desired. If the
officer or employee is refused admission to any place of business or refused
access to any records or computer memory, the Collector or employee shall leave
the premises and shall seek an appropriate court order, with the assistance of
the City Attorney, to obtain access to the information needed.
   (F)   The Collector may delegate duties assigned to the collector in this
subchapter to auy officer or employee under Collector's supervision, provided
that the Collector shall approve the form of all returns and written
instructions.
   (G)   The Collector shall prepare pamphlets for distribution to the public,
clearly explaining the occupational license tax aud the returns aud payments
required.
   (H)   The Collector shall perform all of the other duties assigned to the
Collector by this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.33 PROCEDURE FOR APPLYING FOR REFUND OF OVERPAYMENT.
   (A)   Any person, employer, employee, licensee who truly believes that they
have made or permitted an overpayment of their liability for any occupational
license fee required by this subchapter may apply for refund of the overpayment
provided that they file an amended return, verified under oath and setting
forth in detail the full explanation of the reason of the claimed overpayment
of their liability, within one year of the date the overpayment is made or the
date the occupational license fee payment was due, whichever occurs first.
   (B)   If a refund has been properly claimed according to the provisions of
division (A) above, then the Collector shall have the authority to honor and
refund any overpayment actually made above actual liability upon the
occupational license fee required under this subchapter which the Collector
determines within the Collector's sole discretion was made through honest
mistake or inadvertence.
   (C)   In no event shall any refund be made for any payment upon any
occupational license fee unless the refund claim is submitted and filed in
strict compliance with the foregoing provisions of this section upon such
refund claim forms or amended return forms as hereafter be promulgated by the
Collector from time to time.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.34 FAILURE TO FILE RETURN; FAILURE TO PAY; UNDERPAYMENTS.
   The following rules shall apply when an employer fails to file a return,
fails to pay the occupational license fees withheld when due, or pays less than
the amount due.
   (A)   If the person (employer) liable for withholding the occupational
license fees and filing a return fails to make a return, the Collector shall
prepare an estimate of the amount of occupational license fees due based on the
best information available to the Collector. The Collector may make
investigations to assist in making the estimate. The Collector may consider the
number of employees, the wages or other compensation customarily paid in the
type of business, the volume of business done, and customary commissions or
bonuses paid to employees in the same type of business, and any other relevant
matters. The Collector may estimate the compensation customary in the business
or similar businesses. When the Collector estimates the occupational license
fees, the amount of interest aud late charges provided by this subchapter shall
be added to the fees due. In addition to all the provisions set out in Chapter
114 herein, the Collector shall also have the discretion to use of all the
powers for collection, enforcement and all the penalties for failure to file or
pay under KRS 67.750 through 67.795.
      (1)   The Collector shall notify the person (employer) of the amount due.
Notification shall be in writing and shall contain a brief description of the
method aud estimated figures used in arriving at the estimated tax.
      (2)   Any person (employer) may dispute the amount of the estimated tax
by filing within 30 days of notification of the estimated fees, a return
accompanied by payment of the entire balance due together with the interest and
late charges due. This return shall be processed like any late return, by the
Collector, and shall establish the occupational license fees liability of the
person (employer) in place of the estimated amount prepared by the Collector.
The Collector may, however, later determine that the amount shown in the return
is insufficient so there is a deficiency, in the same manner as in the case of
other returns.
   (B)   If the Collector determines, by examining available evidence, that the
amount of occupational license fees paid over by the employer is less than the
amount required by this subchapter, the Collector shall notify the employer of
the deficiency.
      (1)   The Collector may use any of the methods authorized in division (A)
of this section to determine whether a deficiency exists and to determine the
amount of deficiency.
      (2)   The Collector shall thereupon notify the employer of the
deficiency. Notice shall be in writing and shall state not only the amount of
the deficiency but also the methods and estimates used in arriving at the
amount of the deficiency.
      (3)   If the employer does not object within 30 days of the date of
receiving notice, the employer shall be deemed to have accepted the revised
figures for the occupational tax liability. If the employer does file written
objection within the time specified, the employer shall pay the fees, together
with penalties and interest, under protest and may thereupon pursue
administrative and judicial remedies as provided by ordinance and by state law
to seek a refund.
   (C)   If the Collector finds that any employer has overpaid, the Collector
shall notify the employer of the overpayment and shall refund the amount of the
overpayment to the employer.
   (D)   When the Collector notifies any employer of any estimated amount due,
alleged overpayment, or refund, the Collector shall include in the notice clear
instructions on how, when, and where the employer may protest or appeal the
decision.
   (E)   If an employer or any person, firm, association, or corporation
required by this subchapter to pay a fee or to file a return shall fail to file
any return for any year, failure to file shall constitute a continuing offense
against the city and the Collector may proceed to estimate and collect the
occupational license fees at any time. In all other cases, no increases shall
be made in the employer's occupational license fee liability unless notice of
such increase is received by the employer within three years of the time the
annual return was first due.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of
Chapter 114, shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   All occupational license fees which remain unpaid after they become
due shall bear interest at the rate of 1.5% per month (or part thereof). Any
person who fails to pay the occupational license fee when it shall become due,
shall also be charged a penalty of 10% of the amount of the unpaid license fees
or $10, whichever shall be greater.
   (B)   Any person who shall fail, neglect, or refuse to make any return
required by
Chapter 114, or any employer who shall fail to withhold the occupational
license fee, or to pay to the city those so withheld thereunder, or any person
who shall refuse to permit the Collector or any agent or employee designated by
the Collector in writing, to examine books, records, and papers pertaining to
information required thereunder, or who shall knowingly make any incomplete,
false, or fraudulent return; fail, neglect or refuse to apply for an
occupational license fee reporting number as required by
Chapter 114, or who shall attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the full
disclosure of the amount of earnings in order to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the license fee, shall become liable to the city for such fees
as well as the interest and penalty thereon, and shall in addition, be subject
to citation and upon conviction, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $100 or more than $500, or imprisonment for
not more than 30 days, or to both fine and imprisonment, for each offense. Such
criminal penalties shall be in addition to the penalties imposed above.
(Ord. 07-13-2023-B, passed 8-10-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   [Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
152.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
153.   LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of state codes; enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
   
150.04   Letters of compliance; building/demolition permits
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE CODES; ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Title 815, Chapter 7 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Residential Code, as
contained in Title 815, Chapter 7 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained in Title 815, Chapter 20 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as
contained in Title 815, Chapter 10 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations,
together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any amendments
thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk where they
shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
   (B)   The Chief Building Inspector for Metro Louisville shall be designated
as the local enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code and Residential
Code.
   (C)   The Chief Building Inspector for Metro Louisville and all other
designated officers, agents and employees of the city are hereby charged with
the enforcement of the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the Kentucky Building Code and Kentucky Residential Code
shall be extended to all single-family dwellings in the city which are to be
constructed or remodeled.
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear the appeals.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.04 LETTERS OF COMPLIANCE; BUILDING/DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   (A)   Letters of compliance; building permit.
      (1)   The Chief Building Inspector for Metro Louisville shall be
designated as the local enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code, with
the exception that prior to the issuance of any building permit from Metro
Louisville, the city shall be given the opportunity to review the permit
application and plans to determine if the project (and its site) is in
compliance with all city ordinances.
      (2)   If the property is in compliance, a letter of compliance shall be
issued to the applicant by the city and the applicant shall present that letter
of noncompliance to Metro Louisville, as part of the permit process. If the
property is not in compliance with city ordinance, the city shall state in
writing those items of compliance and provided to Metro Louisville and the
applicant.
      (3)   The City Mayor, after consideration of the application materials
and sufficient investigation, including consultation and opinion of engineer,
architect of other consultant, as may be appropriate to the application, to
make a determination, based on the criteria herein, on whether to grant or deny
the letter of compliance. The decision shall be in writing and within 60 days
of the filing of a complete application and the decision shall set forth
findings supporting the approval or denial. Failure of the applicant to supply
the needed information (as determined by the city), or allow the city
inspection tolls the 60-day time for the city decision. The city may condition
its decision subject to such terms, provision and conditions, as they may deem
reasonably necessary to secure the general purposes of this section.
      (4)   The applicant shall have a right to appeal the decision the City
Commission, which appeal must be in writing and must be received within 30 days
of the denial. The appeal will be docketed for review and decision at the next
regularly scheduled City Commission meeting, provided it is received at the
city office within seven days prior to the meeting. If not so timely received,
it shall be docketed for the following regular meeting. The applicant will be
allowed a reasonable time to present any relevant evidence that supports
applicant's appeal. The decision of the City Commission on the appeal must be
in writing, with findings supporting the approval or denial.
   (B)   Design standards: city wide. The following design standards shall be
used to determine if the building permit is in compliance with city ordinances:
      (1)   All construction in all zoning districts (including accessory
structures) shall have building architecture and exterior finishes, which are
in keeping with the general character of the existing architecture in the city,
in terms of style, type of materials, design and appearance.
      (2)   Roof-lines, pitches and material must be in keeping to the
character of the neighborhood, in terms of style, type of material and design.
      (3)   In all non-residential zoned areas, the landscaping and buffering
of any new construction from single-family residential areas is required, to
minimize the impact of noise, light, unwanted pedestrian access, trash and
other health and safety impacts.
      (4)   All fences and walls must not be installed in such a way as to
obstruct drainage. All fence and wall materials must match the general style
and materials must be in keeping with the general character of the
neighborhood, in terms of style, type of material and design.
      (5)   Residential drives or driveways shall be paved with concrete or
asphalt and there shall be only one drive per single-family residential lot.
      (6)   Commercial parking areas shall be designed to minimize light and
noise impact on community. When possible, commercial parking and access shall
be shared to minimize curb-cuts.
      (7)   Any accessory structure or garages shall match the general style
and materials of the primary structures on the lost and must be in keeping with
the general character of the neighborhood, in terms of style, type of material
and design. No accessory structure or garage may be higher than the top roof-
line of the primary structure on the lot.
      (8)   Any type of signage of any type in any non single-family
residential areas of the city must be in compliance with the Metro Louisville
Land Development Code; and in addition, the signage must be in keeping with the
general character of the neighborhood, in terms of style, type of material and
design.
      (9)   Any exterior of any property, must not be in a dilapidated
condition at the time of application for a building permit. Dilapidated
condition hereby means; weeds and grass (i.e. non-ornamental or crop material)
or grass higher than 12 inches in height; trees, bushes, or any other item that
obstruct the use of sidewalks or streets; stacks of limbs, debris, leaves and
yard waste; accumulations of rubbish; inoperative vehicles, boats and trailers;
unsanitary conditions such as stagnant water.
   (C)   Design standards: Middletown Historic District. The city hereby finds
that the Designated Historic District of the city, is of unique significance
and importance to the city. In order to protect the Middletown Historic
District and encourage smart growth, with the intent to benefit the community
by promoting quality development of the city center, the city hereby enacts the
following additional design guidelines:
      (1)   Respect and enhance the existing mix of historic design styles and
encourage both restoration and adaptive re-use to maintain the character of the
Middletown Historic District.
      (2)   Large featureless buildings should be discouraged. Buildings should
face the street.
      (3)   Building color scheme of balanced, complementary colors should be
emphasized where appropriate.
      (4)   Parking lots should be screened by a landscape buffer or other
natural features from view along the scenic corridors.
      (5)   All new buildings should have predominant facades facing the
corridor.
      (6)   Provide a sense of enclosure along the building front to form
street walls where appropriate through design elements including, but not
limited to, street trees, site features such as lampposts and benches. Parking
areas should be located in the rear.
      (7)   Buildings and sites should be designed to emphasize pedestrian
scale architecture and landscaping, while avoiding large expanses of paved
areas, large featureless buildings, and monotonous or franchise-style
architecture.
      (8)   Circulation systems should be designed to efficiently facilitate
traffic flow yet discourage speeds and volumes that impede pedestrian activity
and safety such as a grid pattern with short block lengths.
      (9)   Common or shared access points are encouraged. To the maximum
extent feasible, common or shared delivery and service access should be
provided between adjacent parcels or buildings and to the rear of buildings.
Future access easements may be required.
      (10)   A coordinated pedestrian system should be provided throughout the
mix-use village centers, including connections between uses on the site and
between the site and adjacent properties and rights-of-way.
      (11)   Continuous sidewalks or other pedestrian facilities should be
provided between the primary entrances to buildings, all parking areas that
serve the buildings, pedestrian facilities on adjacent properties that extend
to the boundaries shared with the development, any public sidewalks along
perimeter streets, or other community amenities or gathering spaces.
      (12)   The visual impact of parking should be minimized through the use
of interior landscaped islands and through dividing parking spaces into
groupings. The edge of parking lots should be screened through landscaping or
other methods, such as decorative fences.
      (13)   The design of streets, pedestrian ways, landscaping, lighting,
signage, lighting and street furniture should be coordinated and integrated
throughout the site.
      (14)   Vehicular streets and driveways should be designed to be
compatible with pedestrian ways to encourage a pedestrian-friendly environment.
The width of streets should be sensitive to pedestrian scale and building
height.
      (15)   Service areas and mechanical equipment should be screened from
public view.
      (16)   All sides of a building open to view by the public should display
a similar level of architecture quality and should be subdivided and
proportioned using features such as arcades, awnings, entrances, windows or
other such features.
      (17)   Building facades should have highly visible customer-service
entrances that feature arcades, arches, canopies, display window, distinctive
roof forms, landscaped features or overhangs. Primary entrances should face
streets on which they are located.
      (18)   Buildings should have well-defined rooflines with attention to
architecture detail.
      (19)   All lighting must conform at a minimum to the Land Development
Code, but should strive to be of a village-level of intensity.
      (20)   Design unique city signs that identify the entries to city.
      (21)   Whenever possible, signage should be integrated with building
facade or supporting structures.
      (22)   Monument signs are preferred over post-mounted signs to avoid a
temporary and fragile appearance.
      (23)   Landscaping should be planted around the base of free-standing
signs.
      (24)   For multi-tenant buildings, all signage on the facade should be
consistent in color, size and elevation.
      (25)   Perimeter landscaping that incorporate buffer-like improvements,
such as berms and dense plantings are encouraged.
      (26)   Parking lots that contain sufficient landscaping to visually
soften views of buildings and parked automobiles are encouraged.
      (27)   Open-space areas that incorporate dense or mature vegetation are
encouraged.
      (28)   Preserve existing trees and understory rather than new plantings
and mounding as the preferred means of buffering.
      (29)   Provide a complementary mix of deciduous and evergreen material,
clustering varieties of species and sizes (canopies interspersed with
understories, bushes and ground cover), and emphasize hardy native species.
      (30)   Encourage use of green-space and limit impervious surface through
innovative materials such as pervious asphalt and concrete and other “green”
type of parking lot materials.
      (31)   Promote water quality through innovative use of “green”
technology, such as diverting rainwater through rain gardens (where possible),
filtering drainage through plant material prior to entering the drainage
systems.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall take effect upon its passage and
approval as required by law.
(Ord. passed - -2010) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(KRS 318.990)
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment
for not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
      (3)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Conditioned approvals. If any site is in violation of §
150.04, the city may condition site (or building), approvals on the site being
brought into full compliance with this section and any other ordinance of the
city.
      (2)   Civil penalties. Any person who intentionally, or negligently
violates any provision of §
150.04 may be civilly liable to the city in the sum of $100 per day of
violation, but not to exceed $1,000 total. The violator will also be required
to replant an equivalent number of trees to those removed. The replacement must
meet with the prior approval of the city. The city may petition the Jefferson
District Court to impose, assess and recover the sums.
(Ord. passed - -2010)
Statutory reference:
   Violations of State Building or Residential Code; penalty, see KRS 227.990
(1)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Cornerstone 2020 Comprehensive Plan, as it may be amended from time to
time by the Joint Planning Commission, copies of which are on file in the
office of the City Clerk, is hereby adopted and incorporated in this code of
ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 4, Series 1984, passed 5- -1984; Ord. 97-04, passed 6-5-1997; Ord. 00-01,
passed 3-2-2000)
CHAPTER 152: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Relationship to Comprehensive Plan
   
152.002   Definitions
   
152.003   Signs exempt from regulation
   
152.004   Nonconforming signs
   
152.005   Removal of certain nonconforming signs
   
152.006   General requirements
   
152.007   City identification signage
Residential/Office Signs
   
152.020   Single-family residential occupant sign
   
152.021   Subdivision identification sign
   
152.022   Community facility identification sign
   
152.023   Club identification sign
   
152.024   Institution identification sign
   
152.025   Multi-family identification sign
   
152.026   Office building identification sign
Business Signs
   
152.040   Business sign general requirements
   
152.041   Attached, awning canopy and marquee signs
   
152.042   Freestanding business signs
   
152.043   Freestanding directional signs
   
152.044   Attached directional signs
   
152.045   Projecting signs
   
152.046   Special provisions
Portable Signs
   
152.060   Temporary banner signs
   
152.061   Special event signing
Signs Along Special Roadway Corridors
   
152.075   Freestanding business sign restriction for designated parkways
Public Art
   
152.080   Public art
Signs in Historic Districts
   
152.090   Additional sign requirements in Historic Districts
   
152.091   Application of other ordinances
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The sign regulations implement the following Cornerstone 2020 Comprehensive
Plan goals, objectives and plan elements:
   (A)   Community Form Goals A3, C1, D1, E1, F4, G2 and H4;
   (B)   Community Form Objectives A3.1, A3.4, C2.5, C4.5, D2.4, E2.4, F4.4,
G4.3 and H4.3; and
   (C)   Guidelines 1, 3 and 13.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS SIGN. The numeric reference of a use or building to a street name.
   AREA OF SIGN. The total area of the sign face, which is used to display a
message or attract attention, not including its supporting structures.
   ATTACHED SIGN. A business sign painted on or mounted on and parallel to the
facade of a building and extending in front of the building wall 18 inches or
less. Signs temporarily or permanently affixed to a window are not considered
ATTACHED SIGNS. See illustration 8.1.1 Attached Sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-17.jpg]
 
   AWNING. A shelter supported by the exterior wall of a building and
projecting a minimum of 24 inches from the wall over a window and/or doorway or
building facade.
   AWNING SIGN. Graphics, symbols and written copy painted on, printed on or
attached flat against the surface of an awning. See illustration 8.1.2 Awning
and Awning Sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-19.jpg]
 
   BANNER SIGN. A cloth, plastic or other soft material sign placed flat
against the facade of a building or strongly secured between two poles. No
BANNER SIGN shall flap or move with the wind.
   BENCH SIGN. A sign painted on or affixed to any portion of a bench or
seating area at bus stops or other pedestrian areas.
   BUSINESS SIGN (ON PREMISES SIGN). A sign used to identify a business
profession, trade or occupation on the site and/or the generic or brand name
products or services available at the site, and shall include an attached sign,
window sign, freestanding sign, projecting sign, awning sign and freestanding
directional sign all as more specifically described in and allowed by §§
152.040 through
152.046, and a small freestanding sign as more specifically described in and
allowed by §
152.075.
   CANOPY, BUILDING. A rigid, multi-sided structure covered with fabric, metal
or other material and supported by a building at one or more points and by
columns or posts at the other points.
   CANOPY, FREESTANDING. A rigid multi-sided structure covered with fabric,
metal or other material and supported solely by columns or posts or a similar
tent is allowed on each lot, with a permit, one time during a calendar year for
a period not to exceed seven days.
   CANOPY SIGN. A sign painted on, printed on or attached flat against the
surface of the canopy. See illustration 8.1.3 Canopy and Canopy Sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-21.jpg]
 
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN/READER BOARD. A sign or portion thereof with
characters, letters or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without
altering the face or the surface of the sign. A sign on which the only copy
that changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of the time or
temperature shall be considered a “time and temperature” of a sign and not a
changeable copy sign for purposes of this chapter.
   CHANGING IMAGE SIGN. A sign, including a sign using a video display method,
which changes its message or background by means of electrical, kinetic, solar
or mechanical energy. A VIDEO DISPLAY METHOD is a method of display
characterized by real-time, full-motion imagery of at least television quality.
   CLUB IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign used to identify a club, lodge, fraternity
or sorority.
   COLUMNAR SIGN. A freestanding business sign supported by columns or pillars
having an aggregate width equal to at least 40% but less than 80% of the width
of the sign cabinet or sign face. See illustration 8.1.4 Columnar Sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-23.jpg]
 
   COMMUNITY FACILITY IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign identifying public and
governmental buildings and facilities including offices, training armories,
storage, maintenance and repair facilities located on the site.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign used to identify the persons or businesses engaged
in the construction of a building on site.
   CORPORATE FLAGS. A flag used to advertise a business, product or service.
CORPORATE FLAGS shall be considered business signs and shall be subject to the
business sign restrictions as listed in this chapter.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. An on-premise sign used to direct pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, including, but not limited to, signs for entrances, exits, parking
areas, one-way drives and drive-throughs. See illustration 8.1.5 Freestanding
and Attached Directional Signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.jpg]
 
   DIRECTOR, COMMISSION OR DEPARTMENT. The director or the department executive
or other person(s) appointed by the Mayor of the city.
   DIRECTORY SIGN. A sign, which lists the names of the occupants of a multiple
occupancy building or site.
   ELEVATION. A geometrical projection of a building on a vertical plane.
   FACADE. All the wall planes of a structure as seen from one side or view.
For example, the FRONT FACADE of a building would include all of the wall area
that would be shown on the front elevation of the building plans.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign that is set firmly in or upon the ground surface
and is not attached to any building or other structure. See illustrations
related to types of freestanding signs such as monument style, sign, columnar
sign and pole/pylon sign. Image follows on next page
   GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to a
sign or to the exterior wall of the building to which a sign is affixed.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area legally designated by the city as an Historic
District.
   ILLEGAL SIGN. A sign, which was not in compliance with this regulation, or
with the applicable regulation when it was erected, installed, altered or
displayed.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign with an artificial light source, either internally
or externally, for the purpose of lighting the sign.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. Any sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the lot on which it is located, such as “no parking,”
“entrance,” “loading only,” “telephone” and other similar directives. No sign
with a commercial message legible from a position off the lot on which the sign
is located shall be considered INCIDENTAL.
   INSTITUTION IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign identifying a church, school or
other institution of learning, library, museum, community center or similar
institution on site.
   MARQUEE. A roof-like awning or canopy of permanent construction, projecting
from the wall of a building above an entrance often bearing a signboard.
   MARQUEE SIGN. A sign painted on, printed on or attached flat against the
surface of the marquee.
   MASTER PLAN PROJECT IDENTIFICATION SIGN. An on-premises sign which
identifies the name of a master plan project that contains more than five lots
and is located at the primary access to the master plan project.
   METROPOLITAN AREA. An area within Jefferson County, Kentucky as shown on the
attached map (Figure 8.1.1) which is incorporated herein and the area being
more particularly described as follows:
   Beginning at a point in the centerline of Dixie Highway, the point being
2,000 feet northeast of the centerline of the Snyder Freeway; thence with a
line parallel to the centerline of the Snyder Freeway, if extended, north 64
degrees, 32 minutes, 19 seconds west crossing the Ohio River to the Kentucky
state line; thence northeast with the state line to a point, the point being
2,000 feet south of the centerline of the Snyder Freeway if extended from its
terminus at U.S. Highway 42 thence with a line crossing the Ohio River and
parallel to the centerline of the Snyder Freeway south 64 degrees, 16 minutes,
47 seconds east to a point in the east line of U.S. 42, the point being 2,000
feet southwest of the centerline of the Snyder Freeway and parallel to same
southeast, south, southwest, west, southwest and west to the point of
beginning.
   MONUMENT STYLE SIGN. A freestanding business sign with a base width of at
least 80% of the width of the sign cabinet or sign face.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign used to identify a
multi-family residential development on site.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign that was erected or installed in compliance with
the sign regulations in effect at the time of its erection or installation but
which is not in compliance with this chapter and which has not been
reconstructed, altered or otherwise modified since the adoption of this chapter
in any manner which render the sign or its placement less in compliance with
this chapter.
   NON-METROPOLITAN AREA. All the area within Jefferson County, Kentucky not
described as a metropolitan area.
   OFFICE BUILDING IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign used to identify an office
building on site, or, where allowed, the occupants thereof.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. See OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. See BUSINESS SIGN.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN. Commonly known as a BILLBOARD or an OFF-PREMISES
SIGN is a sign used to display, advertise or otherwise direct attention to any
business enterprise, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or
offered at a location other than the premises on which the sign is located. A
shared business sign that meets the provisions of this chapter and a
directional sign as authorized in §
152.003, shall not be considered an off-premises sign. Illustration 8.1.6.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.jpg]
 
   POLE/PYLON SIGN. A sign that is mounted on one or more freestanding poles or
pylons. See illustration 8.1.7 Pole/Pylon Sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.jpg]
 
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign, which is not permanently anchored by way of a rigid,
nonflexible connection to a building or the ground.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-31.jpg]
 
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign, which is erected on or attached to and not
parallel to a building wall or structure and extends beyond the building wall
more than 18 inches. Illustration 8.1.9 Projecting Sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
 
   RENT/SALE SIGN. A sign used to advertise the premises on site or a portion
thereof for sale or lease.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected and constructed wholly or in part upon, against or
above the roof of a building. For purposes of this chapter, any portion of a
building above or behind the fascia or parapet of a building shall be
considered part of the roof. ROOF SIGNS are prohibited.
   SHARED BUSINESS SIGN. A business sign that advertises two or more businesses
in separate premises, which utilize common off-street parking and/or shared
access. A SHARED BUSINESS SIGN is not considered an outdoor advertising sign by
this chapter. One or more businesses occupying the same space, such as a
filling station with a convenience store that may include a fast food
restaurant service area, would not be eligible for a SHARED BUSINESS SIGN.
Multiple businesses in a shopping center, even if they are on the same lot,
would qualify for a SHARED BUSINESS SIGN. Illustration 8.1.10.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-35.jpg]
 
   SIGN. Any device, structure, fixture, display or placard using graphics,
symbols or written copy or any combination thereof for the primary purpose of
identifying, providing directions, drawing attention to, or advertising any
establishment, product, goods, place, activity, business or service.
   SIGN PLAN. A coordinated plan for developing signs for an individual
building or a group of buildings.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANT SIGN. A sign used to identify the
individual or individuals occupying a single-family residence.
   SMALL FREESTANDING BUSINESS SIGN. A freestanding business sign that is no
greater than 12 square feet in area for each sign face. For special event sign
and SMALL FREESTANDING BUSINESS SIGN refer to portable sign definition for
illustrations.
   SPECIAL EVENT SIGN. A temporary sign used to advertise a special event
associated with a religious institution, government facility or other not for-
profit organization. For SPECIAL EVENT SIGN and small freestanding business
sign refer to portable sign definition for illustrations.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The distance along which a lot line adjoins a public street
right-of-way between lot lines intersecting the same street. Corner lots have
at least two STREET FRONTAGES.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground, or attachment to something having a location on the
ground, including walls or fences exceeding four feet in height, buildings and
signs. In this chapter, reference to buildings includes STRUCTURES and vice
versa.
   SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign used to identify a residential
subdivision on site.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign whose removal within a specified period of time is
required by this chapter and which complies with the appropriate regulations of
that chapter.
   TIME OR TEMPERATURE SIGN A sign or portion thereof on which the only copy
that changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or temperature.
   WINDOW. The combined area of glazing within a wall opening.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign that is placed inside a window, or applied or attached
to windowpanes or glass, and which is visible from the exterior of the window.
Signs that are permanently painted or otherwise permanently affixed to the
window shall be considered WINDOW SIGNS. Illustration 8.1.11.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-37.jpg]
 
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.003 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM REGULATION.
   The following signs shall be exempt from regulation under this chapter:
   (A)   Any traffic sign, public notice or warning required by a valid and
applicable federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
   (B)   Holiday lights and decorations in residential lots with no commercial
message; and retail store window displays of merchandise, freestanding three-
dimensional promotional items (with or without proprietary words or symbols
solely describing the merchandise and/or merchandise that is sold in the store)
and/or display fixtures or backdrops not affixed to windowpanes or glass;
   (C)   Traffic control signs on private property, such as “stop,” “yield” and
similar signs, and which contain no commercial message;
   (D)   Signs within a ballpark, field or diamond which indicates sponsorship
of the teams or activities that occur therein and which cannot be seen from a
public street or adjacent properties are allowed;
   (E)   Directional signs that assist the public in locating community
facilities or health care facilities, as approved by the Director of Works and
the Planning Director based on a finding by the Directors that the signs are
necessary to promote public health and safety. Directional signs may be located
in the right-of-way or on private property, with permission of the property
owner or public agency having jurisdiction over the right-of-way. The size,
design and illumination shall be subject to approval by the Works and Planning
Directors;
   (F)   Monumental commemorative sculpture and/or graphic art in any medium
and including images depicting real or allegorical persons, noncommercial
themes or symbols, historical scenes and events or idealized scenes, and
inscribed dedications or quotations, permanently attached to and incorporated
into the overall design of all or part of one or more facades of a community
center, church, school, library, museum, hospital or similar public or private,
not-for-profit, institutional or civic structures;
   (G)   Signs placed by a public utility for the safety, welfare or
convenience of the public, including, but not limited to, signs identifying
high voltage, public telephone or underground cables;
   (H)   Non-illuminated names of buildings, dates of erection, monument
statues, commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stone, concrete,
metal or any other permanent type of construction and made an integral part of
an allowed structure or made flush to the ground;
   (I)   Non-illuminated signs used to identify a non-registered historic
property and/or permanently preserved open space property (preserved meaning
through the use of conservation easement or fee simple ownership) erected by a
not-for-profit organization and/or government agency. No commercial messages
shall be allowed on the sign. The sign shall be constructed from stone, metal
or any other permanent type of construction and must be permanently anchored to
the ground. The sign shall not exceed five square feet in area and six feet in
height;
   (J)   Signs used to identify local landmark/national register historic
sites;
   (K)   No trespassing signs not to exceed two square feet in area;
   (L)   Signs upon a vehicle, provided that any vehicle with a sign face of
over two square feet is not conspicuously parked so as to constitute a sign;
nothing herein prevents a vehicle from being used for bona fide delivery and
other vehicular purposes;
   (M)   Animating features such as public art or murals of a noncommercial
nature, as approved by the Planning Director;
   (N)   Address signs no greater than five square feet in area. Address signs
in excess of five feet in area shall be considered attached business signs and
shall be counted toward the number and area of attached signage permitted on a
building facade;
   (O)   Signs required by law on a duly constituted governmental body; and
   (P)   Signs in any City Historic District which are regulated by §§
152.090 and
152.091 and are exempt from the regulations of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.004 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign legally in existence on the effective date of any zoning
regulation, which does not permit the signs may continue in existence as a
matter of right. A nonconforming sign may be maintained and repaired on the
same property so long as the area, height, placement of movable parts and
luminosity are not altered to make the sign less in conformance with this
chapter. Development sites with a nonconforming sign(s) may not install any
additional freestanding signs if an existing freestanding sign is more than 20%
nonconforming or any additional attached signs or an existing attached sign is
more than 20% nonconforming even if one or more would otherwise be allowed by
other provisions of this chapter. Nonconforming in this instance deals with
area and height dimensions only. Nonconforming freestanding signs that meet the
situation listed above shall be brought into 100% compliance before a second
freestanding sign can be permitted.
   (B)   At the time as any structural element of a nonconforming sign is
replaced, the sign must be brought into compliance with the requirements of
current regulations, except that a nonconforming business sign may be replaced
by another nonconforming business sign; provided that all nonconformance in
area, height, size and setback is reduced by 50% of the difference between the
existing nonconforming sign and what the regulation allows. Exception: No
reduction in nonconformance shall be required for the replacement of signs,
awnings, canopies and marquees that were damaged by a weather event or accident
(i.e., vehicular accident) unless the damage results from neglect of
maintenance or other willful act of the property owner. Replacement of
structural elements in this context means the disassembly and subsequent re-
assembly or the substantial alteration of the pole, base or frame. For awnings
and canopies any change to the frame shall be considered as a structural
change. The replacement of material covers shall not be considered a structural
change.
   (C)   Structural components include the base and frame of the sign, but do
not include the sign face.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.005 REMOVAL OF CERTAIN NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Nonconforming signs that have been abandoned shall be immediately
removed by the sign owner or lessee or the property owner. There shall be a
presumption that a nonconforming sign has been abandoned in the event that for
a period of 360 days, the business, which the sign advertises ceases operation
or the use of the sign is discontinued. Upon failure of the sign owner or
lessee or property owner to remove the nonconforming sign in accordance with
this section, a Zoning Enforcement Officer may issue a written notice to the
sign owner or lessee or property owner ordering that the sign shall be removed
within 30 days. The action of the Zoning Enforcement Officer may be appealed to
a Board of Adjustment in accordance with the provisions in KRS Chapter 100.
   (B)   As applicable to nonconforming signs in this section, the word REMOVE
shall be taken to mean:
      (1)   The sign, face, along with posts, columns or supports of
freestanding signs, shall be taken down and removed from the property;
      (2)   The sign face and supporting structures of projecting, roof or
attached signs shall be taken down and removed from the property; and
      (3)   The sign face of painted wall signs shall be removed by painting
over the wall sign in a manner as to completely cover up and hide from sight
the sign in question.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.006 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following standards are applicable to development proposals within all
form districts.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, company, business, or occupant of
a building or property to erect, repair, alter, relocate, or keep within the
city any sign or other advertising device as defined in this subchapter without
first obtaining a sign permit for the city and paying the fee required by the
city. Prior to making an application for a Sign Permit, all outstanding and due
taxes and fees, including business license fees, occupational taxes, ABC
license fees, and property taxes must be paid in full to the City of
Middletown. This requirement applies to taxes or fees owed by either the
applicant or the owner of the property upon which the sign is to be located.
   (B)   No sign shall be placed in a manner visible from any public street,
alley, right-of-way, sidewalk, or other public easement except as provided
herein nor any sign be placed in or extend over street, right-of-way, roadway,
sidewalk, public or private utility or access or other easement, or alley
except as provided herein and with the approval of the Director of the
Department of Public Works for encroachment within the right-of-way of public
streets. All signs allowed hereunder shall be constructed and placed so as not
to obstruct sight lines for persons using streets, pedestrian rights-of -way
and driveways. (See division (1) below for restrictions on signs in the sight
triangle.)
   (C)   No sign shall be allowed to be illuminated except as expressly
provided herein. Signs which are otherwise allowed to be illuminated are not
allowed if the Director shall find that the lighting causes glare or otherwise
interferes with the vision of persons operating motor vehicles. All illuminated
signs shall be non-flashing and shall be constant in intensity and color,
except that signs which display time and temperature and changeable copy signs
in accordance with division (M) below are allowed in C-N, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M,
EZ-1, M-1, M-2 and M-3 zones.
   (D)   No sign shall be allowed if the Director finds that the sign is
constructed or designed in a manner, which may cause the sign to be confused
with a traffic sign or other traffic control device.
   (E)   (1)   The maximum allowed area for all signs other than freestanding
business signs shall be determined by drawing five or fewer straight lines
encompassing the extremities of the sign within the smallest possible area,
except that outdoor advertising signs are allowed extensions and embellishments
beyond the rectangular sign as more specifically provided in § 8.4.5.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-39.jpg]
 
      (2)   To calculate the area of an attached sign calculate the area of the
polygon created by drawing the five lines around the extremities of the sign
face.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-41.jpg]
 
   (F)   Outdoor advertising signs, portable signs, mechanical reader boards,
small freestanding signs and temporary freestanding signs are prohibited in the
city.
   (G)   (1)   The maximum allowed area for freestanding business signs shall
be measured by drawing eight or fewer straight lines encompassing the
extremities of the sign within the smallest possible area; provided, however,
that the area of a freestanding sign shall not include poles, supports or other
structures which are solely for support and which do not contain any
advertising and, the area of a freestanding sign shall not include the space
between the business identification portion of a freestanding business sign and
the reader board portion.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-43.jpg]
 
      (2)   To calculate the area of a freestanding sign calculate the area of
the polygon created by drawing the eight lines around the extremities of the
sign face.
   (H)   No sign shall have more than four faces. Signs with more than two sign
faces shall be calculated for compliance with this section in the following
manner. The maximum allowable size of each sign face shall be calculated by
taking the maximum allowable square footage for a two-sided freestanding sign
(from Table 1) and dividing it by the total number of sign faces.
   (I)   (1)   Signs which flash, revolve, rotate or move in any manner shall
not be permitted in any district, except that monument type changing image
signs no more than six feet above ground in height which contain no video
display are permitted in C-N, EZ-1, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, M-1, M-2 and M-3 zoning
districts.
      (2)   A 30-foot sight triangle is required at all intersections. Example:
four-sided sign, with a permitted area of 40 square feet would be allowed to
have sign faces that are ten square feet each.
   (J)   One freestanding rent/sale sign per site not exceeding six square feet
in area shall be allowed in any district. For lots abutting more than one
street, one rent/sale sign shall be allowed for each abutting street. In the C-
N, EZ-1, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, M-1, M-2, M-3, OR, OR-1, OR-2, OR-3, OTF, W-1, W-
2, W-3, PRO and PEC Districts freestanding or attached rent/sale signs not
exceeding 30 square feet shall be allowed. The signs shall be removed no later
than two days after closing of sale or consummation of lease. Rent/sale signs
within the above listed zoning districts may have two signs on street frontages
in excess of 600 feet. The area of each of the two signs combined shall not
exceed the total maximum area allowed for one rent/sale sign.
   (K)   One or more signs identifying persons or business firms engaged in the
construction of a building on site, are allowed; provided that each sign not
exceed 12 square feet in area and 15 feet above ground in height. In the
alternative, one sign identifying all persons or business firms engaged in
construction of a building on site is allowed; provided the sign shall not
exceed 40 square feet in area and 15 feet above ground in height. All signs
must be removed within seven days following issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for the building.
   (L)   (1)   Awnings and canopies constructed of translucent materials that
are internally illuminated, with the exception of fully shielded lighting
fixtures directed down onto non-illuminated ground and/or sidewalk shall be
considered attached signs and shall be included as part of the total allowable
signage on any one facade of a building as listed in §
152.041. Signs located on an opaque awning or canopy shall be included as part
of the total allowable signage area permitted on any one facade of a building
as listed in §
152.041. Awning signs and canopy signs may be internally illuminated in
accordance with §
152.041. Exterior lighting is permitted in accordance with Chapter 4, Part 1,
Lighting.
      (2)   Translucent internally illuminated awnings and/or canopies with or
without signage shall be considered attached signage and shall be included as
part of the total allowable signage on any one facade. Opaque awnings with
signs shall have only the area of the sign included as part of the total
allowable signage on any one facade.
   (M)   Outdoor advertising signs are prohibited.
   (N)   Changing image signs (includes changeable copy signs and time and
temperature signs) shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   All changing image signs under five square feet in area with no
more than one line of text shall not exceed a rate of change of once per four
seconds;
      (2)   All changing image signs over five feet in area and/or more than
one line of text shall not exceed a rate of change of once per 20 seconds; and
      (3)   Changing image signs with a rate of change in excess of the
restrictions set forth in divisions (N)(1) and (N)(2) above or signs with video
displays, shall require approval from the Planning Commission for design. The
Planning Commission review shall include at a minimum the following issues:
         (a)   Characteristics of the adjacent street (traffic speed, number of
lanes, functional class and the like);
         (b)   Proximity to another changing image sign or sign with a video
display;
         (c)   Dimensions of the proposed signs;
         (d)   Number of lines of text;
         (e)   Proximity to residential development; and
         (f)   Legibility of text.
   (O)   The area of a facade of a building is determined by adding the square
footage of surface area of each section of wall visible from a given
perspective. For buildings with more than one wall along one facade (for
example, rooms jutting out from the main building or a building where each
floor is set back from the floor below), all of the walls are included in the
total area. The total area does not include any roof area.
Illustration 8.1.15 Total Facade Area = the Area of A+A+A for facade facing
public street frontage
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-45.jpg]
 
   (P)   This regulation shall be in addition to the requirements of KRS
177.830 through 177.890; the most restrictive requirement applies. (Note: KRS
transportation related definitions.)
   (Q)   Planned development district sign standards (if applicable) shall be
established by the city when the master plan for the planned development
district is developed and approved by the Planning Commission.
   (R)   Specific provisions within this regulation that are not eligible for a
variance in accordance with KRS 100.111 may be waived in accordance with
Chapter 11, Part 8.
   (S)   Preservation districts and local landmarks. All new sign construction
within designated preservation districts and for local landmarks shall conform
to the Landmarks Commission design guidelines.
   (T)   Window signs shall not exceed 25% of the total window area on a given
facade.
   (U)   (1)   A composite group of signs integrated into one framed unit or
compact structure constitutes one sign.
      (2)   Variances may be obtained from a Board of Adjustments for
dimensional requirements including area and height of signs.
   (V)   (1)   A back-to-back or V-shaped sign constitutes one sign if it has a
common set of supports. If the interior angle between the two sign faces is
less than 120 degrees, the sign area is of one sign face only. If the angle
between the two sign faces is greater than or equal to 120 degrees, the sign
area is the sum of the areas of the two sign faces.
   Illustration 8.1.16
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a90a30ef677e0110d1e40221b9bffdab3b84034c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-47.jpg]
 
      (2)   Variances may be obtained from a board of adjustments for
dimensional requirements including area and height of signs.
   (W)   Downtown Form District.
      (1)   All new signs within the designated Downtown Form Special Districts
shall be reviewed and approved in accordance with the guidelines and procedures
of the Downtown Development Review Overlay (DDRO) District.
      (2)   Recognizing the unique character and function of these Special
Districts, the DDRO, at its discretion, may allow signs (type, size, height,
location) not otherwise permitted under this chapter for developments within
the Fourth Street Entertainment District (Fourth Street between Liberty Street
and Broadway) and for individual cultural arts attractions requiring ODHO
review.
      (3)   In review and approval or the signage the DDRO Committee shall
follow the review procedures outlined for Land Development Code waivers in
Chapter 11.
   (X)   Roof signs are prohibited.
   (Y)   The use of pennants, streamers and balloons as signs shall be
prohibited. (See definition of sign.)
   (Z)   All permanent signage shall require a permit from the Director unless
stated otherwise within this chapter.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006; Ord. 07-13-2023-C, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 152.007 CITY IDENTIFICATION SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Creation of new city identification signage. The city recognizes that
there is an opportunity to create better public identification for both the
City of Middletown and its business community through the construction of City
of Middletown identification signs. These signs may be built with additional
space for city businesses and organizations. On a case-by- case basis, the city
will consider appropriate and non-intrusive signage in its right-of-way, or on
land to be deeded to the city, or on private property, as long as the following
initial criteria are met;
      (1)   The sign is proposed in an area in which City of Middletown
identification is needed and the sign will fulfill that need;
      (2)   The primary purpose of the sign is city identification, with
additional space allowed for business signage;
      (3)   Total initial capital cost of the sign must be paid by others;
      (4)   The sign must be safe, not adversely impact traffic and be
constructed to all city specification;
      (5)   There is a signed agreement and easement in place which determines
responsibility for future maintenance.
   (B)   Control of sign/construction. The city must approve the final design,
location, size and construction details of the sign, after submittal by the
applicant(s). The city will enter into an agreement with the applicant(s) that
determines future control and maintenance issues.
(Mun. Order 12-10-15-A, passed 1-14-2016)
RESIDENTIAL/OFFICE SIGNS
§ 152.020 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANT SIGN.
   One single-family residential occupant sign not exceeding one square foot
shall be allowed anywhere on the premises of each residence.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.021 SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN.
   One freestanding subdivision identification sign not exceeding 64 square
feet in area and 15 feet in height shall be allowed at each dedicated street
entrance within the building lines of the subdivision during construction, for
not more than 60 days prior to the commencement of construction, and after
construction until a time as 80% of the lots are sold. Thereafter, one
freestanding subdivision identification sign not exceeding 15 square feet in
area and six feet in height shall be allowed at each dedicated street entrance
within the building lines. In the alternative, a signature entrance with one 15
square feet attached sign per wall or fence (no more than two signs) is allowed
as permitted in § 4.4.3 at each entrance to the development.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.022 COMMUNITY FACILITY IDENTIFICATION SIGN.
   Public and governmental buildings and facilities including offices, training
armories, storage, maintenance and repair facilities may be allowed one non-
flashing identification sign, not to exceed 60 square feet in area and ten feet
in height, may be located at the major entrances, provided the sign complies
with §
152.006(I), except in zoning districts and form districts where larger signs
are allowed. Public utility service buildings and facilities within zoning
districts and form districts where signs are not allowed, may erect one non-
illuminated identification sign, not to exceed 12 square feet in area, provided
the sign complies with §
152.006(I).
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.023 CLUB IDENTIFICATION SIGN.
   One club identification sign facing each bordering street not to exceed six
square feet in area is allowed on each site on which an exceptional residential
use or club, lodge, fraternity or sorority is located. Any sign if freestanding
must not exceed six feet in height.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.024 INSTITUTION IDENTIFICATION SIGN.
   One illuminated freestanding or attached institution identification sign
(includes reader boards/changeable copy signs) not to exceed 32 square feet in
area and not exceeding ten feet in height for a freestanding sign or the height
limit for additional business signs facing each bordering street is allowed on
the premises of any community center, church, private school, library, museum
or similar institution; provided that, if the institution is located in a
district for which a larger business sign would be allowed, then the size of
the sign may conform to the size allowed in that district. Two freestanding
signs (32 square feet each) per street shall be permitted for street frontages
in excess of 600 feet provided that the two signs are a minimum distance of 300
feet apart. In the alternative, one 50 square foot sign shall be permitted for
street frontages in excess of 600 feet.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.025 MULTI-FAMILY IDENTIFICATION SIGN.
   (A)   One illuminated or non-illuminated multi-family residential
identification sign is allowed attached flat on the face of the building and
extending no more than 12 inches from the surface of the building. In no event
shall an attached sign be located more than three feet above the ceiling of the
first floor of the building.
   (B)   In Campus, Regional Center, Suburban Workplace Suburban Marketplace
Corridor and Downtown Form Districts, attached signs shall not be located more
than three feet above the ceiling of the upper most floor of the building.
   (C)   Within the Traditional Marketplace Corridor and Traditional Workplace
Form Districts, the tops of attached signs shall not be higher than 20 feet and
shall not extend above the cornice line of the building. In the alternative one
freestanding sign which shall not extend into any required yard is allowed to
face each street bordering the site provided that the freestanding signs if
located within the R-5A, R-6, R-7, R-8A, TNZD or OR-1 Districts shall not
exceed a height of six feet above ground nor exceed an area of six square feet.
In the alternative, a signature entrance with attached signs is allowed at each
entrance to the development as permitted in §
152.021.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.026 OFFICE BUILDING IDENTIFICATION SIGN.
   (A)   One illuminated or non-illuminated office building identification sign
attached flat on the facade of the building oriented toward the public street
providing primary access and extending no more than 12 inches from the surface
of the building is allowed per facade in the OR-1, OR-2, OR-3, OTF, W-1 or W-
2 Districts and for permitted office uses within the TNZD zoning district.
   (B)   The signs shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   In Neighborhood, Traditional Neighborhood, Town Center and Village
Form Districts and TNZD zoning district, attached signs shall not exceed 32
square feet in area. In no event shall an attached sign be located more than
three feet above the ceiling of the first floor of the building.
      (2)   In Campus, Regional Center, Suburban Workplace and Suburban
Marketplace Corridor Form Districts, attached signs shall not exceed 100 square
feet in area. In no event shall an attached sign be located more than three
feet above the ceiling of the uppermost floor of the building.
      (3)   Within the Traditional Marketplace Corridor Form District and
Traditional Workplace Form District, the tops of attached signs shall not be
higher than 20 feet and shall not extend above the cornice line of the
building. The size of the attached sign(s) shall not exceed 64 square feet in
area.
      (4)   Freestanding signs are permitted in accordance with the applicable
Form District requirements as listed in §§
152.040 through
152.046. Office uses within the TNZD zoning district shall use the requirements
of the Traditional Neighborhood Form District.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
BUSINESS SIGNS
§ 152.040 BUSINESS SIGN GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Business signs are allowed in all nonresidential zoning districts (these
districts include: OR, OR-1, OR-2, OR- 3, OTF, C-R, C-N, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, M-
1, M-2, M-3, EZ-1, PEC, PRO, W-1, W-2, W-3) and for nonresidential uses within
the TNZD zoning district, subject to the restrictions set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.041 ATTACHED, AWNING CANOPY AND MARQUEE SIGNS.
   (A)   There shall be no more than a total of three of any of the following
types of signs; attached, or awning, or canopy, or marquee signs on any one
facade of a building, subject to the total maximum sign area requirement set
forth below, except that multiple use buildings may have one sign for each
business. First floor awning, canopy and marquee signs are excluded from the
number of awning, attached, canopy or marquee signs permitted on any one facade
of a building, subject to the total maximum sign area requirement set forth
below; attached signs, canopy signs, marquee signs and awning signs are
permitted within all nonresidential zoning districts (these districts include:
OR, OR-1, OR-2, OR-3, OTF, C-R, C-N, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, M-1, M-2, M-3, EZ-1,
PEC, PRO, W-1, W-2, W-3, PD (non-residential uses), unless otherwise regulated
by §
152.026 and within the form district regulations. Commercial uses permitted
within a TNZD District may include attached, awning, canopy or marquee signs as
authorized in this section, subject to additional limits established in the
applicable TNZD Plan Report.
   (B)   The total area encompassed by all attached signs on any one facade of
the building shall not exceed the limits established in Table 1 below. The area
of the building facade shall be measured as specified in §
152.006(O).
 
Table 1: Attached Signage
Less than 1,000 square feet              10% of building facade area
Greater than/equal to 1000 but less than 10% of building facade area but not to
3,500 square feet                        exceed 300 square feet
Greater than or equal to 3,500 square    300 square feet
feet
 
   (C)   An attached sign mounted parallel to the exterior walls of a building
may project up to 18 inches from the surface to which it is mounted. An
attached sign constructed flat on the face of the building without the approval
of the Director of the Department of Public Works. An attached sign mounted to
a slanted (inclined) exterior surface may be mounted in the vertical upright
position as long as the sign does not project beyond 18 inches at the point of
attachment. No sign shall extend more than five feet above the highest point of
the exterior wall to which it is attached. No sign shall be mounted on any
roof. Signs mounted on the extension above the face of a parapet wall shall be
considered a roof sign and thereby prohibited.
      (1)   In Neighborhood, Traditional Neighborhood, Village, Town Center
Form Districts, attached signs (i.e., any portion of the sign) shall not be
located more than three feet above the ceiling (does not include drop ceiling)
of the first floor of the building.
      (2)   In Campus, Regional Center, Suburban Workplace, Suburban
Marketplace Corridor and Downtown Form Districts, attached signs shall (i.e.,
any portion of the sign) not be located more than three feet above the ceiling
(does not include drop ceilings of the upper most floor of the building.
      (3)   Within the Traditional Marketplace Corridor Form District, the tops
of attached signs shall not be higher than 20 feet and shall not extend above
the cornice line of the building.
      (4)   (a)   Awnings and canopies (i.e., any portion of the awning or
canopy) containing signs must be mounted no more than three feet above the
ceiling (does not include drop ceilings) of the first floor of the building.
         (b)   The area of all awning signs and canopy signs shall be included
as part of the total allowable signage on any one facade of a building as
listed in division (B) above.
   (D)   Window signs are permitted within the PD (commercial uses) C-N, C-1,
C-2 and C-M zoning districts. A use may display window signs so long as the
aggregate area of the signs does not exceed 25% of total window area located on
the ground floor of the building. For computation of area, window panels
separated by munitions or mullions shall be considered as one continuous
windowpane. Window signs shall not be considered attached signs.
   (E)   Form district specific attached, awning and window sign restriction.
      (1)   Traditional Neighborhood Form Districts.
         (a)   Attached, awning, canopy and marquee signs shall be permitted at
a maximum total size of 60 square feet in area.
         (b)   The area of the illuminated face of outdoor vending machines
with advertising graphics shall count toward the number and area of attached
signs permitted on a site. Outdoor vending machines shall not be permitted in
the right-of-way.
      (2)   Traditional Marketplace Corridor Form Districts. Multiple tenant
buildings shall be permitted either an attached sign or a projecting sign for
each tenant.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.042 FREESTANDING BUSINESS SIGNS.
   In addition to the attached signs allowed above, illuminated or non-
illuminated freestanding business signs are allowed subject to the following
restrictions.
   (A)   Freestanding business signs are allowed within all nonresidential
zoning districts (these districts include: OR, OR-1, OR-2, OR-3, OTF, C-R, C-N,
C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, M-1, M-2, M-3, EZ-1, PEC, PRO, W-1, W-2, W-3), (PD
nonresidential uses) unless otherwise listed under §§
152.020 through
152.026 or restricted a TNZD District may include freestanding business signs
in accordance with the restrictions of the Traditional Neighborhood Form
District as listed in this section, subject to additional limits established in
the applicable TNZD Ran Report.
   (B)   No freestanding sign shall be located in or project over or into the
right-of-way or into any adjoining property.
   (C)   A lot fronting only on one street shall have no more than one
freestanding sign unless the street frontage exceeds 600 feet, then a second
freestanding sign is allowed. The sum of the areas of the two freestanding
signs combined shall not exceed the total maximum area allowed for one
freestanding sign.
   (D)   A lot fronting on two or more public streets shall be allowed to have
one freestanding sign for each street frontage. If one street frontage exceeds
600 feet then a third sign shall be permitted in accordance with division (C)
above. If the site contains more than one street frontage with more than 600
feet of length, then only one of the street frontages shall be permitted to
have a second sign in accordance with division (C) above.
   (E)   An outdoor advertising sign shall not be counted in determining
compliance with divisions (C) and (D) above.
   (F)   No lot frontage shall have a freestanding sign unless the building
situated on that lot is set back at least 15 feet from the street right-of-way
line. Corner lots may have a freestanding sign for the frontage on which the
building is setback at least 15 feet from the street right-of-way line.
Traditional Neighborhood, Traditional Marketplace and Village Form Districts
shall be exempt from the setback requirement as listed in this division.
   (G)   There shall be no minimum setback for a freestanding business sign as
long as the sign meets the restrictions listed under §
152.006(B). No freestanding sign shall encroach into a required yard.
   (H)   Where more than one freestanding sign is proposed for installation on
a development site with multiple frontages, a minimum of 60 linear feet shall
separate each freestanding sign.
   (I)   Freestanding business signs for lots adjacent to Scenic Corridors,
Olmsted Parkways and Parkways and for lots within the Traditional Marketplace
Corridor, Neighborhood, Traditional Neighborhood, Campus and Village Form
Districts shall meet one of the following design standards:
      (1)   The sign shall be a monument style sign;
      (2)   The sign shall be a columnar sign; or
      (3)   In locations where the permit issuer identifies a potential sight
distance problem and when the Director of Works determines that the design
standards in division (I)(1) or (I)(2) above would negatively affect sight
distance necessary for pedestrian and vehicular traffic accessing the site or
using adjacent intersections, another sign style may be approved by the
Planning Director.
   (J)   Form District specific freestanding sign restrictions.
      (1)   Traditional Neighborhood Form Districts. Freestanding signs are
permitted only when the linear street frontage of the lot exceeds 120 feet.
      (2)   Suburban Workplace Form Districts. One freestanding suburban
workplace overall development identification sign shall be permitted adjacent
to the primary entrance to developments having more than five lots and having
an access point from an arterial level street. This sign shall not be counted
towards the number of allowed freestanding business signs on a lot. The sign
shall not exceed 150 square feet in area and 24 feet in height. The sign if
located adjacent to a designated parkway shall meet the sign restrictions
listed in Table 2 (§
152.075).
      (3)   Campus Form Districts.
         (a)   In multiple lot developments the base, side and frame of
freestanding signs shall be uniform in design, materials and color.
         (b)   One freestanding campus overall development identification sign
shall be permitted adjacent to the primary entrance to developments having more
than five lots and having an access point from an arterial level street. This
sign shall not be counted towards the number of allowed freestanding business
signs on a lot. The sign shall not exceed 100 square feet in area and 18 feet
in height. The sign if located adjacent to a designated parkway shall meet the
sign restrictions listed in Table 2 (§
152.075).
         (c)   Signs may be located within the building setbacks, established
within § 5.3.5.
      (4)   Downtown Form District
         (a)   Freestanding signs shall be limited to small freestanding
business signs, directory signs and directional signs.
         (b)   Freestanding signs shall only be permitted within the storefront
zone of the sidewalk, subject to the licensing requirements established by the
Director of Works, or as part of the plaza, park or other open space designed
in conjunction with the structures(s).
      (5)   Suburban Marketplace Corridor. Businesses within the Suburban
Marketplace Corridor Form District may choose to add the allowable square
footage of a temporary freestanding business sign to their existing or proposed
freestanding business sign for a changeable copy sign addition. If this
provision is used, the business loses the right to have a temporary
freestanding business sign.
      (6)   Freestanding regional center overall identification sign. One
freestanding regional center overall identification sign shall be permitted
adjacent to the primary entrance to developments having more than five lots and
having an access point from an arterial level street. This sign shall not be
counted toward the number of allowed freestanding business signs on a lot. The
sign shall not exceed 150 square feet in area and 24 feet in height. The sign,
if located adjacent to a designated parkway, shall meet the sign restrictions
listed in §
152.075.
   (K)   The maximum area and height of freestanding business signs within
nonresidential zoning districts (these districts include: OR, OR-1, OR-2, OR-3,
OTF, C-R, C-N, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-M, M-1, M-2, M-3, EZ-1, PEC, PRO, W-1, W-2, W-
3) PD (non-residential uses) are listed in Table 1.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.043 FREESTANDING DIRECTIONAL SIGNS.
   Freestanding directional signs, i.e., signs used primarily to direct on
premise vehicular or pedestrian circulation or traffic, are allowed to a
maximum height of three feet, with a maximum area of five square feet. These
signs shall not be counted toward the number of freestanding signs allowed on a
lot. One single-faced “menu board” type sign is allowed for a drive through
facility and shall not be counted toward the number of freestanding business
signs allowed; provided the sign is no larger than 40 square feet. Freestanding
directional signs shall be permitted within form district setbacks/yards.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.044 ATTACHED DIRECTIONAL SIGNS.
   Attached directional signs, i.e., signs used exclusively to direct on-
premises vehicular or pedestrian circulation or traffic, are allowed to a
maximum area of five square feet. These signs shall not be counted toward the
number of attached business signs allowed on a lot. No attached directional
sign may exceed a height greater than ten feet from the grade of the property
on which the sign is located.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.045 PROJECTING SIGNS.
   Buildings on lots which contain no freestanding sign (other than a
freestanding directional sign) may not have more than one sign which projects
perpendicularly from the facade (but not the roof) of the building providing
that the sign does not exceed 32 square feet in area, does not extend below
nine feet above the ground or sidewalk, or more than eight feet from the facade
of the building, or closer than two feet to the abutting roadway. The area of
the projecting sign shall be part of the total allowable signage allowed on any
one facade of the building as listed in §
152.041(B). Multiple use buildings may have one projecting sign for each
business, subject to the total maximum sign area permitted in Table 1.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.046 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A single use building may have one attached sign for the sole purpose
of furnishing emergency telephone numbers or other emergency information. This
sign shall not be counted toward the number of attached signs allowed provided
it does not exceed one square foot in area. Multiple use buildings may have one
emergency sign for each independent use. A sign in a gasoline service station
identifying a self service and/or full service pump island may be attached to
canopy supports or light standards over a pump island at a height greater than
the three feet allowed for other directional signs; provided the area of the
sign does not exceed five square feet.
   (B)   Shared business signs shall not be considered outdoor advertising
signs by this regulation.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
PORTABLE SIGNS
§ 152.060 TEMPORARY BANNER SIGNS.
   (A)   The area of a temporary banner sign shall not exceed 32 square feet.
   (B)   A new business may display a banner for a maximum of 30 days at or
about the opening of a business.
   (C)   A banner for special events may be displayed three times in any one
calendar year for no longer than ten days each display.
   (D)   Banners shall be stretched tightly to prevent swag and/or droop.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 152.061 SPECIAL EVENT SIGNING.
   (A)   One special event sign shall be permitted for institutional uses with
a permit from the appropriate Building Department for a period not to exceed 30
days within a calendar year. The expiration date of the permit shall be affixed
to the sign at all times when the sign is within public view. A copy of the
permit shall be located on the property and shall be made available for review
upon request.
   (B)   The special event sign shall not exceed 32 square feet of surface area
per face and there shall be no more than two faces. The sign shall not extend
more than six feet above the ground on which it is placed.
   (C)   The special event sign shall advertise only the activity lawfully
practiced on site, related special events including fund raising activities, or
religious, charitable or other noncommercial messages.
   (D)   Special event signs may not be illuminated, or contain any electrical
component unless UL approved and unless connected to a ground fault
interrupter. All illuminated temporary freestanding business signs shall be
non-flashing and any illumination shall be constant in intensity and color. All
components of a small freestanding sign shall be non-moving and stationary.
   (E)   No special event sign shall be allowed within the public right-of-way
or public easement.
   (F)   No special event sign shall be constructed and placed so as to
interfere with vehicular traffic by obstructing sight lines for streets,
pedestrian right-of-way and driveways.
   (G)   Any Code Enforcement Officer or peace officer who finds a special
event sign so placed on private property that the sign as located causes an
obstruction to pedestrian or vehicular traffic or restricts the vision of
drivers of vehicles on abutting streets or on the subject property may cause
the sign to be removed to a safe location on the subject property. Any Code
Enforcement Officer or peace officer may remove any sign located on the public
right-of-way and dispose of same.
   (H)   All special event signs shall be kept in good repair and in a proper
state of preservation.
   (I)   Every special event sign and the premises immediately surrounding the
sign shall be maintained by the owner or person in charge thereof in a clean,
sanitary and inoffensive condition, and free and clear of all obnoxious
substances, rubbish and weeds.
   (J)   Small special event signs not to exceed four square feet in area each
shall be allowed without a permit. These signs shall not include any electrical
or mechanical components and shall be removed from the property within three
days after the completion of the advertised event.
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
SIGNS ALONG SPECIAL ROADWAY CORRIDORS
§ 152.075 FREESTANDING BUSINESS SIGN RESTRICTION FOR DESIGNATED PARKWAYS.
Table 2: Form District Freestanding Business Sign Restrictions
                    Single            Shared 2-             Shared   Shared
Form     Street     Business Single   3 Business Shared 2-  4 >      4 >
District Functional Area     Business Area       3 Business Business Business
         Class      (S.F.)   Height   (S.F.)     Height     Area     Height
                                                            (S.F.)
Table 2: Form District Freestanding Business Sign Restrictions
                        Single            Shared 2- Shared 2- Shared   Shared
Form         Street     Business Single   3         3         4 >      4 >
District     Functional Area     Business Business  Business  Business Business
             Class      (S.F.)   Height   Area      Height    Area     Height
                                          (S.F.)              (S.F.)
Campus       See Neighborhood below
             Local      40       6        60        8         80       10
             Collector  60       8        80        10        100      12
             Arterial 4
Neighborhood lanes or   80       10       100       12        120      14
             less
             Arterial > 80       12       100       14        120      16
             4 lanes
             Local      60       12       80        14        100      16
             Collector  80       18       100       20        120      22
Regional     Arterial 4
Center       lanes or   100      22       120       24        140      26
             less
             Arterial   100      24       120       26        140      28
             >4 lanes
Suburban
Marketplace  See Regional Center above
Corridor
Suburban     See Regional Center above
Workplace
Town Center  See Neighborhood above
Traditional
Marketplace  Local      32       6        60        6         80       10
Corridor
             Collector  48       6        64        6         72       10
             Arterial 4
             lanes or   48       6        64        6         72       10
             less
             Arterial   64       8        72        10        88       12
             >4 lanes
Traditional  Local      24       4        48        6         64       8
Neighborhood
             Collector  32       6        56        8         72       10
             Arterial 4
             lanes or   48       6        72        8         88       10
             less
             Arterial   48       8        72        10        88       12
             >4 lanes
Traditional  Local      40       10       60        12        80       14
Workplace
             Collector  60       14       80        16        100      18
             Arterial 4
             lanes or   80       18       100       20        120      22
             less
             Arterial 4 80       22       100       24        120      26
             lanes
Village      See Traditional Neighborhood above
Note:
* Lanes refer to driving lanes, which include center turn lanes and medians,
de-acceleration lanes are not included
 
(Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006)
PUBLIC ART
§ 152.080 PUBLIC ART.
   The City of Middletown exempts "public art", which includes all mediums,
such as sculpture, murals or painting, film, light, or other forms of creative
expression, from the requirements of this chapter, provided that the depictions
are indeed works of art and not signs. In order to determine whether a
particular item is "art" the following criteria shall be used:
   (A)   Public art.
      (1)   Public art is any form of creative expression, that does not
contain a commercial or advertising content and is not a display to public view
of letters, devices, structures, fixtures, displays, emblems, placards, or any
part of combinations thereof designed to direct, announce or inform the public
about businesses and organizations. Commercial logos, depictions of goods or
services sold, or any elements of commercial advertising for a business or
organization are not allowed in public art. This includes any recognizable
figure, product, person or items that directly and recognizably advertise goods
or services, including, but not limited to trademarks, mascots, or
spokespersons.
      (2)   Any person wanting to install a work which they consider public art
must first submit a rending of the work to the City of Middletown. The City
Commission will docket the matter for its next regular meeting, for the sole
purpose of determining (based upon the foregoing criteria), if the work meets
the definition of public art. If the City Commission determines the work is
public art, no further review or regulation shall apply. If the City Commission
determines the work is not public art and is instead a sign, the applicant must
comply with the City's sign regulations in this chapter.
   (B)   Design recommendations. The City of Middletown recommends to those
wishing to install public art on private property the following design
recommendations:
      (1)   Demonstrate Middletown's values of community and creativity, public
art should foster a message of bringing people together;
      (2)   Stimulate economic growth and investment;
      (3)   Encourage public education and cultural literacy;
      (4)   Contribute or celebrate Middletown and the region's identity;
      (5)   Bridge cultural and social barriers;
      (6)   Provide community cohesion;
      (7)   Energize publicly viewed spaces in the city;
      (8)   Enhance new and existing development;
      (9)   Provide local opportunities for talented regional, national and
international artists;
      (10)   Contribute to Middletown and the region as a tourist destination;
      (11)    Leave a legacy for the future; and
      (12)   Create a positive impact.
(Ord. 03-14-19-B, passed 4-11-2019)
SIGNS IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS
§ 152.090 ADDITIONAL SIGN REQUIREMENTS IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   Signs constructed or maintained in any City Historic District shall comply
with the following requirements, in addition to other legal requirements,
including the requirements of §§
152.090 and
152.091 and are exempt from the regulations of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075.
   (A)   Signs shall be as unobtrusive as possible and executed in a
professional manner.
   (B)   Letters shall contrast well with background and shall take up no more
than 60% of the sign area.
   (C)   The maximum number of signs on one face of the building shall be two
per business or tenant.
   (D)   The total square footage per tenant or business shall be no larger
than 12 square feet. Tenants and/or businesses may consolidate their allotment
of permitted signage into a single sign not to exceed 50 square feet per lot.
   (E)   Ground signs shall not exceed 12 square feet. Pole signs shall be
limited to five feet in height and six square feet in area.
   (F)   No sign attached to a building may protrude above the face of a
building or be longer than the width of the building.
   (G)   No internally illuminated signs, flashing lights, unshielded bulbs or
phosphorescent background or lettering shall be allowed. Indirect light, soft
floodlights and the like is permitted.
   (H)   Signs shall be made of wood, metal or masonry. Plastic letters may be
permitted if they closely resemble metal or wood.
   (I)   Signs and their mountings shall be appropriate to the building. In
approving or denying a sign application, the Commission shall take into account
the age and the design of the building.
   (J)   Cloth banners will be permitted but will be restricted to 12 square
feet per side with the same time provisions as stated in §§
152.090 and
152.091 and are exempt from the regulations of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075.
   (K)   Properties located on the north side of Main Street and west of
Watterson Trail have lot depths from Main Street to U.S. 60. Signs on
properties facing Main Street shall be restricted to the requirements of the
Historic Preservation Districts; however, signs facing U.S. 60 shall not be so
restricted but shall comply with the requirements of §§
152.090 and
152.091 and are exempt from the regulations of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075.
   (L)   No real estate or lease sign shall be larger than 12 square feet and
shall not exceed five feet in height.
   (M)   Appeals for exceptions can be made to the City Historic Preservation
Commission but the Commission shall have no authority to grant an exception
under other applicable city ordinances or under the zoning district
regulations.
   (N)   Each merchant in the city’s Historic District shall be allowed to
erect one narrowly defined and specific kind of small sign that will announce
to the public, what the businesses’ daily specials and specialty items are;
provided, however, that all merchants comply with the standards, rules and
regulations set forth in §
152.091.
      (1)   Signs shall be pre-approved by the city. All signs shall be uniform
in appearance and price range and shall reflect design, size and color
characteristics which will create a visual streetscape complimentary of the
general Historic District appearance.
      (2)   The sign shall be of a sandwich-board or A-frame type construction.
      (3)   The sign shall be square or rectangular in shape with no side
larger than 31 inches, including frame.
      (4)   The sign shall have two opposing surfaces with a white background
that will accommodate the use of erasable, colored removable inks with which to
write or draw hand-written messages on either or both surfaces. Reader-board
type signs are prohibited, including electronic signs or signs with moving
parts.
      (5)   The sign’s purpose shall be to advise the public of the businesses’
daily specials and specialty items. Generic signs solely with business names
are prohibited.
      (6)   The sign may be visibly displayed only during hours the business is
open to the public.
      (7)   The sign shall be placed at ground-level, but it shall not be
placed on any right-of-way.
      (8)   Where the right-of-way is bordered by an abutment, mound, wall or
other object that would
obstruct the sign from the public’s view, the sign may be placed upon the
abutment, mound, wall or other object; provided, however, that the total height
of the obstruction and sign shall be no higher than eight feet above the normal
ground level and shall not impair visual movement or create a safety hazard.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 8-2-1990; Ord. 06-12, passed 8-3-2006; Ord. 06-15, passed
9-12-2006) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.091 APPLICATION OF OTHER ORDINANCES.
   To the extent that §§
152.090 and
152.091 and are exempt from the regulations of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075 is more restrictive than the provisions of this subchapter, then §§
152.090 and
152.091 and are exempt from the regulations of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075 shall control. Nothing contained herein shall relieve any person from
securing a city sign permit for any sign in the Historic District, or seeking
an exception from the City Commission when required.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 8-2-1990; Ord. 06-12, passed 8-3-2006)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500.
Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person, owner or agent who violates §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500
for each lot or parcel which was the subject of the violation. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075 or any of the regulations adopted pursuant thereto, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 but not
more than $500 for each conviction. Each day of violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (4)   Even though a penalty or a forfeiture has been imposed by reason of
a violation of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075, such shall be no bar to restoring the property on which the violation
exists, or removal of the offending signage or otherwise correcting the
violation.
      (5)   The person in physical control (owner, lessee, tenant, agent and
the like) of the real estate on which a violation of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075 exists, shall be prima facie presumed to have committed the violation
unless it is shown that the offender acted in good faith on the advice of a
city official.
      (6)   A commission may appoint enforcement officers who shall have
authority to issue citations for violations of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075 which the officer has observed, but shall not have powers of peace
officers to make arrests or carry deadly weapons. The defendant shall appear
within a designated time pursuant to the citation.
      (7)   Any citation officer of the city may issue a citation for any
violation of §§
152.001 through
152.006,
152.020 through
152.026,
152.040 through
152.046,
152.060,
152.061 and
152.075 which is observed by him or her and enforce the violation in the County
District Court.
   (B)   Historic Districts.
      (1)   Violation of the provisions of §§
152.090 and
152.091 or failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Each day during which the violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense for which a separate fine may be imposed.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
152.090 and
152.091 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500.
      (3)   Any person, owner or agent who violates §§
152.090 and
152.091 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500
for each lot or parcel which was the subject of the violation.
      (4)   Any person or entity who violates any of the provisions of §§
152.090 and
152.091 as adopted by the city or any of the regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, for which no other penalty is provided, shall upon conviction, be
fined not less than $10 but not more than $500 for each conviction.
      (5)   Even though a penalty or a forfeiture has been imposed by reason of
a violation of §§
152.090 and
152.091, such shall be no bar to restoring the property on which the violation
exists, or removal of the offending signage or otherwise correcting the
violation.
      (6)   The person in physical control (owner, lessee, tenant, agent and
the like) of the real estate on which a violation of §§
152.090 and
152.091 exists, shall be prima facie presumed to have committed the violation
unless it is shown that the offender acted in good faith on the advice of a
city official.
      (7)   The City Commission may appoint enforcement officers who shall have
authority to issue citations for violations of §§
152.090 and
152.091 which the officer has observed, but shall not have powers of peace
officers to make arrests or carry deadly weapons. The defendant shall appear
within a designated time pursuant to the citation.
      (8)   Any citation officer of the city may issue a citation for any
violation of §§
152.090 and
152.091 which is observed by him or her and enforce the violation in the County
District Court.
      (9)   The owner or tenant of any building or structure, premises or part
thereof, any architect builder, contractor, agent or other person who commits,
participates in, or maintains the violation may be found guilty of a separate
offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 90-12, passed 8-2-1990; Ord. 06-08, passed 4-6-2006; Ord. 06-12, passed
8-3-2006)
CHAPTER 153: LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Land Development Code, as it may be amended from time to time, copies of
which are on file in the office of the City Clerk, is hereby adopted and
incorporated in this code of ordinances as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 4, Series 1982, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 9, Series 1982, passed 11-4-1982;
Ord. 2, Series 1983, passed 4-7-1983; Ord. 3, Series 1983, passed 4-7-1983;
Ord. 15, Series 1983, passed 12-1-1983; Ord. 1, Series 1984, passed 2- -1984;
Ord. 3, Series 1984, passed 5-3-1984; Ord. 2, Series 1986, passed 5-1-1986;
Ord. 1, Series 1988, passed - -1988; Ord. 7, Series 1988, passed 6-2-1988; Ord.
8, Series 1988, passed 6-2-1988; Ord. 88-11, passed 8-4-1988; Ord. 88-14,
passed 8-4-1988; Mun. Order 89-01, passed 1-5-1989; Ord. 97-08, passed 7-3-
1997; Ord. 97-15, passed 11-6-1997; Ord. 97-16, passed 11-6-1997; Ord. 97-13,
passed 1-8-1998; Ord. 03-01, passed - -2003; Ord. 03-02, passed - -2003; Ord.
04-04, passed 6-3-2004; Ord. 06-05, passed 3-2-2006; Ord. 08-06, passed 6-12-
2008; Ord. 08-15, passed 1-8-2009; Mun. Order 09-05, passed 3-12-2009; Ord. 09-
05, passed 6-11-2009; Ord. 09-07, passed 10-8-2009; Ord. 14-11, passed 6-12-
2014; Ord. 14-12, passed 6-12-2014; Ord. 14-13, passed 6-12-2014; Ord. 04-13-
17-A, passed 5-11-2017; Ord. 08-08-19-A, passed - - ; Ord. 01-26-21-A, Series
2021, passed 2-11-2021; Ord. 08-12-21-B, passed 11-11-2021; Ord. 11-09-2023-B,
passed 12-14-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   BONDS
      
IV.   CONTRACTS
      
V.   DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT PLANS; BINDING ELEMENTS
      
VI.   EASEMENTS
      
VII.   FRANCHISES
      
VIII.   LANDMARK DESIGNATIONS
      
IX.   LANDSCAPING PLANS
      
X.   LEASES
      
XI.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
XII.   REZONINGS
      
XIII.   STREETS
      
XIV.   VARIANCES
      
XV.   WATER SERVICE EXTENSIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
Mun.  5-6-   Cooperation agreement between the city and Jefferson County relating to the
Order 1993   Housing and the Community Development Act (HUD).
93-07
93-05 6-3-   Joint cooperative program for self-insurance.
      1993
Mun.  2-4-   Authorizing the execution of a agreement between the city and Christian
Order 1999   Academy of Louisville relating to an industrial building project.
99-05
Mun.  7-1-   Cooperation agreement between the city and Jefferson County relating to the
Order 1999   Housing and the Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and the Home
99-14        Investment Partnership Program for HUD fiscal years 2000 through 2002.
Mun.  7-11-  Relating to a cooperation agreement between the city and Jefferson County
Order 2002   relating to the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
02-13
Mun.  8-7-   Approval of an interlocal cooperation agreement between the city and
Order 2003   Louisville Metro County Police Department relating to police services.
03-08
Mun.  8-7-   Approval of an agreement with First Baptist Church for use of parking
Order 2003   facilities.
03-10
Mun.  7-1-   Approval of agreement between the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and the
Order 2004   city for Main Street enhancements.
04-14
Mun.  7-1-   Approval of agreement between the Kentucky Transportation Cabinet and the
Order 2004   city for Davis Tavern restoration.
04-15
Mun.  12-2-  Approval of agreement between the state, Office of the Governor, Governor’s
Order 2004   Office for Local Development and the city for park acquisition and/or
04-16        enhancements; Cross Creek Park; 50 of $90,000 and authorizing execution.
Mun.  12-2-  Approval of agreement among City Fire Protection District and Middletown
Order 2004   Civic Club relating to the restoration preservation and maintenance of an
04-23        antique 1941 fire truck.
Mun.  9-1-   Approval of agreement between the State Transportation Cabinet Department of
Order 2005   Highways and the city for Shelbyville Road Safety Beautification Plan.
05-17
Mun.  1-4-   Approval of letter of agreement between the city and Louisville Metro
Order 2007   government relating to fee for services under Interlocal Police Agreement
07-01        raising hourly fees.
Mun.         Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with the Governor’s Office
Order 5-3-   for Local Development (GOLD) for the project (Phase II Main Street Plan), to
07-11 2007   execute any documents which are deemed necessary by GOLD to facilitate the
             project and to act as the authorized correspondent for the project.
Mun.  6-5-   Approval of agreement between the State Transportation Cabinet Department of
Order 2008   Highways and the city for Shelbyville Road Phase II beautification and
08-07        authorizing the execution.
Mun.  11-13- Approval of a recapture agreement by and between MSD; Eagle Development, LLC;
Order 2008   RCRJ, LLC; and the city.
08-12
Mun.  1-8-   Approval of a recapture agreement by and between Metro Sewer District; RCRJ,
Order 2009   LLC; and the city.
09-01
Mun.  7-9-   Entering into a letter agreement with Louisville Metro Police regarding
Order 2009   provision of police services.
09-12
Mun.  2-6-
Order 2014   Approval of a certain amended recapture agreement between MSD and the city.
04-14
Mun.
Order 4-9-   Approval of a certain loan commitment with Commonwealth Bank and Trust
04-   2015   Company, in the amount of $500,000, with a loan term of five years and an
09-          interest rate of 2.39%.
15-C
Mun.
Order 1-14-  Authorizing Mayor to enter into an interlocal agreement relating to
01-   2016   communications services.
14-
16-B
Res.
06-   6-9-   Authorizing Mayor to execute and furnish all documentation required by KOHS
09-   2016   for funds for purchase of equipment and services.
16-A
Mun.
Order 2-14-  Authorizing Mayor to execute and furnish all documentation required by KOHS
02-   2019   for funds for purchase of equipment and services.
14-
19-A
Mun.
Order 9-12-  Authorizing an interlocal agreement relating to participation in the Kentucky
9-12- 2019   League of Cities Investment Pool Plus.
19-C
Mun.
Order 8-13-  Authorizing a memorandum of agreement between the city and the Roman Catholic
08-   2020   Bishop of Louisville relating to the construction and renovation of the St.
13-          Patrick School campus.
20-C
Mun.         Approving and authorizing the execution of a loan agreement between the city
Order 9-10-  and the Roman Catholic Bishop of Louisville in an amount not to exceed
09-   2020   $4,400,000 to pay for costs of construction and renovation of the St. Patrick
10-          School campus.
20-B
Mun.
Order 12-9-
12-   2021   Relating to approval of an opioid abatement allocation agreement.
09-
21-E
            
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.             Date Passed Description
9, Series 1979       12-20-1979  Annexing tract of land located in Jefferson
                                 County, containing 26.65 acres.
11, Series 1979      1-17-1980   Proposing to annex a tract of land located in
                                 Jefferson County, containing 9.856 acres.
12, Series 1979      1-17-1980   Proposing to annex a tract of land located in
                                 Jefferson County, containing 39.913 acres.
11, Series 1980      2-21-1980   Annexing tract of land located in Jefferson
                                 County, containing 9.856 acres.
12, Series 1980      2-21-1980   Annexing tract of land located in Jefferson
                                 County, containing 39.913 acres.
                                 Proposing to annex a tract of land located in
14, Series 1980      4-17-1980   Jefferson County and adjoining the Cities of
                                 Douglass Hills and Woodland Hills.
                                 Annexing tract of land located in Jefferson
15, Series 1980      6-19-1980   County and adjoining the Cities of Douglass
                                 Hills and Woodland Hills.
                                 Proposing to annex a tract of land located in
16, Series 1980      6-19-1980   Jefferson County and adjoining the City of
                                 Anchorage.
17, Series 1980      8-21-1980   Annexing tract of land located in Jefferson
                                 County and adjoining the City of Anchorage.
                                 Proposing to annex a tract of land located in
20, Series 1980      2-5-1981    Jefferson County and adjoining the City of
                                 Woodland Hills.
                                 Clarifying the legal position of the city as
1, Series 1981       2-7-1981    to annexation action from October 18, 1979 and
                                 to re-annex three parcels of land.
                                 Proposing to annex a tract of land located in
2, Series 1981       4-16-1981   Jefferson County and adjoining the City of
                                 Douglass Hills.
                                 Annexing tract of land located in Jefferson
3, Series 1981       4-16-1981   County and adjoining the City of Woodland
                                 Hills.
4, Series 1981       4-16-1981   Re-annexing three parcels of land.
                                 Annexing tract of land located in Jefferson
7, Series 1981       7-16-1981   County and adjoining the City of Douglass
                                 Hills.
                                 Proposing to annex a tract of land located in
13, Series 1981      9-17-1981   Jefferson County and adjoining the City of
                                 Woodland Hills.
                                 Annexing tract of land located in Jefferson
1, Series 1982       1-21-1982   County and adjoining the City of Woodland
                                 Hills.
                                 Proposing to annexing Lots 26 and 73 in Block
10, Series 1982      11-11-1982  31, containing ten acres and 4.5 acres of
                                 land.
1, Series 1983       3-3-1983    Annexing Lots 26 and 73 in Block 31,
                                 containing ten acres and 4.5 acres of land.
4, Series 1983       4-7-1983    Proposing to annex tract of land.
9, Series 1983       8-4-1983    Annexing tract of land.
7, Series 1984       4-10-1984   Proposing to annex tract of land.
17, Series 1984      10-4-1984   Proposing to annex tract of land.
1, Series 1985       4-4-1985    Annexing tract of land.
94-09                12-5-1994   Annexing three tracts of land.
                                 Proposing to annex a tract of land located in
97-01                6-5-1997    Jefferson County and adjoining the City of
                                 Douglass Hills.
                                 Annexing tract of land located in Jefferson
97-12                9-11-1997   County and adjoining the City of
                                 Jeffersontown.
14-16                8-21-2014   Stating the intention to annex the territory
                                 known as Beckley Woods Subdivision.
Mun. Ord. 06-20-17-A 6-20-2017   Stating the intention to annex the subdivision
                                 known as Academy Ridge.
                                
 
TABLE III: BONDS
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
             Relating to a supplemental trust indenture, amended loan agreement and
Mun.  6-1-   amended regulatory agreement pursuant to which certain property is added as
Order 1989   security for the multi-family housing revenue bonds (Heritage Hill Project)
89-07        in the amount of $8,785,000 issued by the city and for the loan agreement
             and mortgage between the city and Heritage Hill Investors Group, LTD.
Mun.  9-7-   Authorizing the execution on behalf of the city of a supplemental indenture
Order 2000   relating to the city’s outstanding multi-family housing revenue bonds
00-11        (Heritage Hill Project).
Mun.  8-2-   Authorizing and providing for the issuance of the city, Kentucky
Order 2001   Educational Development Revenue Bonds (Summit Academy).
01-12
Mun.         Adopting and approving the execution of a municipal road aid bond fund
Order 4-6-   agreement between the city and the state, Transportation Cabinet,
06-06 2006   Department of Intergovernmental Programs and accepting all streets referred
             to therein as being streets which are a part of the city.
 
TABLE IV: CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
Mun.  1-4-
Order 1990   Award of snow removal contract; S.H. Holloway Construction Co.
90-01
Mun.  1-4-
Order 1990   Award of sanitation contract; Okolona Sanitation, Inc.
90-02
Mun.  5-2-   Relating to the acceptance of extension option contained in refuse
Order 1991   collection and disposal contract; Okolona Sanitation, Inc.
91-05
Mun.  12-5-
Order 1991   Award of snow removal contract; S.H. Holloway Construction Co.
91-13
Mun.  6-4-
Order 1992   Award of sanitation contract; Rumpke, Inc.
92-08
Mun.  5-6-   Relating to awarding contract for conducting city audit for fiscal year
Order 1993   ending June 30, 1993; DePrie and Adkisson, CPA.
93-10
Mun.  8-5-
Order 1993   Award of snow removal contract; S.H. Holloway Construction Co.
93-13
Mun.  5-20-
Order 1994   Award of street resurfacing contract; Charlton Company, Inc.
94-05
Mun.  6-2-   Relating to awarding contract for conducting city audit for fiscal year
Order 1994   ending June 30, 1994; William H. Bennett, CPA.
94-06
Mun.  6-1-
Order 1995   Award of sanitation contract; Browning-Ferris Industries (BFI).
95-12
Mun.  8-3-
Order 1995   Award of snow removal contract; S.H. Holloway Construction Co.
95-16
Mun.  5-22-
Order 1996   Award of street resurfacing contract; Commercial Pavers, Inc.
96-05
Mun.  6-5-   Relating to the extension of snow removal contract pursuant to bid; S.H.
Order 1997   Holloway Construction Co.
97-09
Mun.  9-11-  Relating to approval of audit for fiscal year ending June 30, 1997;
Order 1997   William H. Bennett, CPA.
97-15
Mun.  5-7-
Order 1998   Award of snow removal contract; S.H. Holloway Construction Co.
98-09
Mun.  5-7-
Order 1998   Award of sanitation contract; Browning-Ferris Industries (BFI).
98-10
Mun.  6-17-  Award of bid (contract) for sidewalk construction; Rutledge Construction
Order 1998   Co.
98-15
Mun.  7-2-   Award of bid (contract) for restoration of historic gas station under
Order 1998   bid specifications; P.L. Lyons, Inc.
98-18
Mun.  7-29-  Award of bid (contract) Cedardale Road improvements; River Road Paving,
Order 1999   LLC.
99-17
Mun.  8-5-   Award of bid (contract) FPR 1999 paving and related work contract;
Order 1999   Commercial Pavers, Inc.
99-18
Mun.  3-2-   Approval of a contract to purchase real estate known as the Wetherby
Order 2000   House and surrounding property for the sum of $1,200,000 with certain
00-03        contingencies, and authorizing the Mayor to enter into the contract.
Mun.  6-7-   Relating to approval of an inducement contract between the city and
Order 2001   Summit Academy, revenue bond.
01-08
Mun.  6-7-
Order 2001   Award of sanitation contract; Industrial Disposal Company.
01-09
Mun.  8-2-   Award of bid (contract) for 2001 paving and related work contract;
Order 2001   Commercial Pavers, Inc.
01-13
Mun.  8-2-
Order 2001   Award of snow removal contract; S.H. Holloway Construction Co.
01-14
Mun.  5-2-   Relating to the award of bid (contract) for Middletown/Wetherby House
Order 2002   walking path and parking lot construction contract; Louisville Paving,
02-11        Inc.
Mun.  9-4-   Relating to the award of bid for constructing a parking lot (First
Order 2003   Baptist Church Annex on Main Street); Flynn Brothers Contracting, Inc.
03-12
Mun.  9-19-
Order 2003   Award of snow removal contract; Koch’s Landscaping, Inc.
03-11
Mun.  5-6-
Order 2004   Award of sanitation contract; Industrial Disposal Company.
04-11
Mun.  2-23-  Award of contract for Middletown Streetscape, Phase 1 (Main Street
Order 2006   Development Plan); MAC Construction and Excavating, Inc.
06-03
Mun.  4-5-
Order 2007   Award of sanitation contract; Industrial Disposal Company, LLC.
07-07
Mun.  4-5-
Order 2007   Award of grass cutting contract; Ground Effects.
07-08
Mun.  10-9-
Order 2008   Award of snow removal contract; Koch’s Landscaping, Inc.
08-11
Mun.  11-13- Approval of a renewal option with Eventualities, Inc. to produce the
Order 2008   2009 Middletown Fall Festival.
08-13
Mun.  3-12-
Order 2009   Award of grass cutting contract; Ground Effects.
09-03
Mun.  5-14-  Accepting the extension of the garbage contract for the city; Industrial
Order 2009   Disposal Company, LLC.
09-09
Mun.  7-9-   Awarding the contract for the re-paving of N. Pope Lick Road; Louisville
Order 2009   Paving.
09-11
Mun.  10-8-  Accepting extension of snow removal contract for the city; Koch’s
Order 2009   Landscaping, Inc.
09-21
Mun.  3-11-
Order 2010   Award of grass cutting contract; Pro Turf Lawn and Landscaping, Inc.
10-04
Mun.  6-10-  Accepting the bid for the construction of a gravity sewer; Flynn
Order 2010   Brothers.
10-06
Mun.  9-9-
Order 2010   Award of snow removal contract for the city; Koch’s Landscaping, Inc.
10-10
Mun.  10-14- Adoption of audit performed by Bennett & Company, CPA, for fiscal year
Order 2010   ending June 30, 2010.
10-11
Mun.  4-14-  Accepting the winning bid by Industrial Disposal for the garbage
Order 2011   contract for the city.
12-11
Mun.  10-13- Relating to accepting the extension term for the contract for the Family
Order 2011   Fun Festival.
19-11
Mun.  10-13- Relating to accepting a snow removal contract for the city with Koch’s
Order 2011   Landscaping, Inc.
20-11
Mun.  11-10- Adopting the audit report of Welenken Himmelfard & Co., for the time
Order 2011   period of July 1, 2010, to June 30, 2011.
16-11
Mun.  11-10- Relating to accepting the lowest and best bid for repaving Swan Pointe
Order 2011   Boulevard.
18-11
Mun.  3-21-  Relating to accepting the lowest and best bid, by Carpet Specialists,
Order 2012   for renovations to Middletown Community Center.
02-12
Mun.  3-21-  Relating to accepting the lowest and best bid, by Derek Engineering, for
Order 2012   renovations to Middletown Community Center.
03-12
Mun.  3-21-  Relating to accepting the lowest and best bid, by Triplett Striping,
Order 2012   Inc., d.b.a. ISI Paving, for the Middletown street scape, phase 5.
05-12
Mun.  6-14-  Relating to accepting the lowest and best bid, by Project Heating and
Order 2012   Cooling, for renovations to Middletown Community Center.
09-12
Mun.  8-9-   Adopting the audit report of Welenken Himmelfard & Co., for the time
Order 2012   period of July 1, 2012, to June 30, 2013.
10-12
Mun.  9-13-  Relating to accepting the lowest and best bid, by E-Z Construction
Order 2012   Company, for construction of Waterson Trail sidewalks.
15-12
Mun.  10-11- Relating to accepting a snow removal contract for the city with Koch’s
Order 2012   Landscaping, Inc.
19-12
Mun.  11-8-  Relating to approval of the audit report of Welenken Himmelfard & Co.,
Order 2012   for the time period of July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2012.
21-12
Mun.  1-10-  Relating to accepting the lowest and best bid, by United Construction,
Order 2013   for a sidewalk improvement project.
01-13
Mun.  5-9-   Relating to approval of the audit report of Welenken Himmelfard & Co.,
Order 2013   for the time period of July 1, 2012 to June 30, 2013.
02-13
Mun.  7-2-   Accepting the lowest and best bid of United Construction for renovations
Order 2013   to Cross Creek Park.
05-13
Mun.  7-3-   Accepting the lowest and best bid of Derek Engineering for museum
Order 2013   improvements at the Middletown Community Center.
04-13
Mun.  9-12-  Accepting the lowest and best bid of Flynn Brothers for the repaving of
Order 2013   Bragg Avenue.
08-13
Mun.  9-26-  Accepting the lowest and best bid of Marrillia Construction for a
Order 2013   drainage improvement project on Main Street.
10-13
Mun.  9-26-  Accepting the lowest and best bid of Seven Seas Construction for a
Order 2013   sidewalk construction project on North Madison/ Cedardale Road.
11-13
Mun.  11-14- Approval of the audit report of Welenken Himmelfard & Co., for the time
Order 2013   period of July 1, 2012 to June 30, 2013.
15-13
Mun.  9-11-  Approval of the audit report of Welenken CPAs, for the time period of
Order 2014   July 1, 2013 to June 30, 2014.
14-23
Mun.  9-30-  Relating to accepting a snow removal contract for the city with Quality
Order 2014   Contracting, Inc.
14-27
Mun.  11-13- Relating to accepting a paving contract with LIBS Paving Co., for
Order 2014   Cedardale Road.
14-31
Mun.
Order 2-12-  Relating to accepting a sidewalk contract with Hall Contracting of
02-   2015   Kentucky, Inc., for Cedardale Road.
12-
15-A
Mun.
Order 2-12-  Extending the duration of the existing garbage collection contract with
02-   2015   Industrial Disposal Company, for two years.
12-
15-B
Mun.
Order 5-14-  Extending the duration of the existing Family Fun Festival contract with
05-   2015   Eventualities, for two years.
14-
15-A
Mun.
Order 8-13-  Relating to the approval of a management contract with RTL Grave
08-   2015   Services, Inc., for the Middletown Historic Cemetery.
13-
15-C
Mun.
Order 8-13-  Relating to the approval for the professional service contract with
08-   2015   Welenken CPA’s, for auditor.
13-
15-D
Mun.
Order 3-10-  Authorizing contract with National Environmental Contracting, Inc. for
03-   2016   abatement of hazardous materials in Community Center.
10-
16-E
Mun.
Order 4-14-  Accepting lowest and best bid of Omega Construction for roofing
04-   2016   renovations to Community Center.
14-
16-A
Mun.
Order 4-14-  Accepting lowest and best bid of Mason Carpenter for mowing of public
04-   2016   areas.
14-
16-B
Mun.
Order 4-14-
04-   2016   Approval of professional service contract with Welenken CPA.
14-
16-C
Mun.
Order 4-14-  Approval of management contract with RTL Grave Services for Middletown
04-   2016   Historic Cemetery.
14-
16-D
Mun.
Order 5-19-  Accepting lowest and best bid of Quantum Enterprises, Inc. for interior
05-   2016   demolition renovations to Community Center.
19-
16-A
Mun.
Order 5-19-
05-   2016   Extending snow removal contract with Quality Contracting, Inc.
19-
16-B
Mun.
Order 6-9-   Accepting lowest and best bid of Liba Paving Company for re-paving
06-   2016   projects on Daisy Lane and Locust Road.
09-
16-D
Mun.
Order 8-11-
08-   2016   Approval of professional service contract with Welenken CPA.
11-
16-A
Mun.
Order 10-20- Accepting lowest and best bid of Excel Excavating for construction of
10-   2016   crosswalks.
20-
16-A
Mun.
Order 10-20-
10-   2016   Accepting change order to contract with Liba Paving.
20-
16-C
Mun.
Order 2-9-   Accepting the lowest and best bid of Storm Guard for roofing renovations
02-   2017   to the Middletown Community Center.
09-
17-D
Mun.
Order 3-23-  Accepting the lowest and best bid of Rumpke of Kentucky for the
03-   2017   collection of garbage.
23-
17-B
Mun.
Order 4-13-
04-   2017   Extending the duration of the existing Family Fun Festival contract.
13-
17-B
Mun.
Order 5-11-  Approval for the professional service contract of Welenken for
05-   2017   professional audit services.
11-
17-B
Mun.
Order
05-   - -    Applying for federal funds for South Madison Avenue sidewalks.
11-
17-D
Mun.
Order 5-11-  Accepting the lowest and best bid of Libs Paving Company, Inc. for re-
05-   2017   paving projects at various locations.
11-
17-E
Mun.
Order 6-8-
06-   2017   Approval of a trailer purchase through the JROTC.
08-
17-B
Mun.
Order 6-8-   Approval for the professional service contract of QK4 for ADA
06-   2017   assessment.
08-
17-C
Mun.
Order 6-8-   Approval of changes to the renewal of a professional services management
06-   2017   contract for the Middletown Historic Cemetery.
08-
17-E
Mun.
Order        Accepting the best bid of Bayus Design Works for renovations of the
07-   - -    Community Center.
13-
17-B
Mun.
Order 8-10-  Approval for the professional service contract of QK4 for ADA
08-   2017   assessment.
10-
17-B
Mun.
Order 1-11-  Approval of a professional service contract for design services of
01-   2018   Wetherby Park upgrades.
11-
18-B
Mun.
Order 3-18-  Renewal of a professional services management contract with RTL Grave
03-   2018   Services, Inc., for the day to day management of the Middletown Historic
08-          Cemetery.
18-B
Mun.
Order 4-12-
04-   2018   Accepting the bid of Day’s Painting to repaint the pavilion gazebo.
12-
18-C
Mun.
Order 5-15-  Extending the duration of the existing mowing contract with Mow Better
05-   2018   for one year, under the same terms, conditions, and pricing.
15-
18-A
Mun.
Order 5-15-  Approval for the professional service contract for auditor for the time
05-   2018   period of July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018.
15-
18-B
Mun.
Order        Accepting the bid of Highlands Roofing for roofing renovations to the
06-   - -    Middletown Community Center.
14-
18-B
Mun.
Order 6-14-  Accepting the bid of LIBS Paving for the re-paving of various streets in
06-   2018   the city.
14-
18-C
Mun.
Order 9-13-  Accepting the snow and ice removal bid of Quality Contracting for the
09-   2018   city.
13-
18-B
Mun.
Order 9-13-  Approval of professional services contract for phase one design for
09-   2018   Wetherby Park.
13-
18-E
Mun.
Order 1-10-  Approval of a professional service contract with Bayus Design Works for
01-   2019   design services for the Community Center upgrades.
10-
19-A
Mun.
Order 3-14-  Extending the duration of the existing mowing contract with Mow Better
03-   2019   for one year, under the same terms, conditions, and pricing.
14-
19-F
Mun.
Order 3-14-  Approval of a professional services contract for phase one design for
03-   2019   Wetherby Park.
14-
19-G
Mun.
Order 3-14-  Extending the duration of the existing Family Fun Festival contract with
03-   2019   Eventualities, for two years.
14-
19-H
Mun.
Order 3-14-  Accepting the lowest and best bid of Rumpke for the collection of
03-   2019   garbage.
14-
19-I
Mun.
Order 4-11-  Approval for the professional service contract of Welenken CPAs for
04-   2019   professional audit services.
11-
19-B
Mun.
Order 5-9-   Relating to accepting the lowest and best bid, by Derek Engineering, for
05-   2019   the exterior renovations of the Middletown Community Center.
09-
19-A
Mun.
Order 5-9-
05-   2019   Accepting a change order to contract with LIBS Paving.
09-
19-C
Mun.
Order 7-11-  Renewal of a professional services management contract with RTL Grave
06-   2019   Services, Inc., for the day to day management of the Middletown Historic
13-          Cemetery.
19-B
Mun.
Order 7-11-  Approval for the professional service contract of QK4 for ADA
07-   2019   assessment.
11-
19-A
Mun.
Order 8-8-
08-   2019   Putting out to bid the improvements to Wetherby Park Phase I.
08-
19-B
Mun.
Order 9-12-  Relating to accepting the lowest and best bid, by Derek Engineering, for
09-   2019   the construction of a maintenance building.
12-
19-B
Mun.
Order 10-10- Approval of the audit report of Welenken CPAs, for the time period of
10-   2019   July 1, 2018 to June 30, 2019.
10-
19-A
Mun.
Order 12-12-
12-   2019   Approval of an ADA assessment as prepared by QK4.
12-
19-A
Mun.
Order
12-   - -    Applying for federal funds for Kratz Avenue sidewalks.
12-
19-B
Mun.
Order 2-13-
02-   2020   Approval of generator purchase from Wagner Electric.
13-
20-E
Mun.
Order 3-30-  Accepting the lowest and best bid by Seven Seas for the Kratz Lane
03-   2020   sidewalk project.
30-
20-C
Mun.
Order 5-14-
05-   2020   Approval of professional service contract with Welenken CPA.
14-
20-C
Mun.
Order 6-11-  Renewal of a professional services management contract with RTL Grave
06-   2020   Services, Inc., for the day to day management of the Middletown Historic
11-          Cemetery.
20-A
Mun.
Order 8-13-  Approval relating to the purchase of body cameras for the Middletown
08-   2020   Police Department.
13-
20-A
Mun.
Order 8-13-  Approval relating to the purchase of vehicles for the Middletown Police
08-   2020   Department.
13-
20-B
Mun.
Order 10-8-
10-   2020   Accepting a change order to contract with LIBS Paving.
08-
20-A
Mun.
Order 10-27- Accepting the best bid by Forman, Jones & Associates Realtors for sale
10-   2020   of property located at 11913 Old Shelbyville Road.
27-
20-A
Mun.
Order 11-12- Approval of the audit report of Welenken CPAs, for the time period of
11-   2020   July 1, 2019 to June 30, 2020.
12-
20-A
Mun.
Order 3-11-
03-   2021   Accepting the contract for the Family Fun Festival with EventLogic, Inc.
11-
21-A
Mun.
Order 4-8-
04-   2021   Accepting a change order for re-paving projects.
08-
21-F
Mun.
Order 5-13-  Approval relating to a professional service contract for auditor for the
05-   2021   time period of July 1, 2020 to June 30, 2021.
13-
21-B
Mun.
Order 6-10-  Approval relating to a professional service contract for Mindel Scott
06-   2021   Engineering.
10-
21-A
Mun.
Order 8-12-  Approval relating to a professional service contract with Kentuckiana
08-   2021   Regional Planning and Development Agency (KIPDA).
12-
21-A
Mun.
Order 9-9-   Accepting the lowest and best bid for roof repairs to the Middletown
09-   2021   library.
09-
21-B
Mun.
Order 10-14- Accepting the lowest and best bid for re-paving projects at various
10-   2021   locations.
14-
21-B
Mun.
Order 10-14- Extending the duration of the existing Family Fun Festival contract for
10-   2021   two years, under the same terms, conditions and pricing.
14-
21-E
Mun.
Order 12-9-  Approval relating to the professional service contract for Bayus Design
12-   2021   Works.
09-
21-B
            
TABLE V: DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT PLANS; BINDING ELEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date   Description
             Passed
11, Series   1-2-   Amending binding elements.
1985         1986
6, Series    12-3-  Approving a detailed district development plan for Outlot 5 as shown on docket
1987         1987   no. 10-30-87 and Tract 2 as shown on minor plat no. 245-87.
Mun. Order   7-21-  Amending binding elements on Eastgate Shopping Center as contained in Ord. 11,
88-01        1988   Series 1986 and Ord. 10, Series 1987, docket nos. 9-47-86 and 9-1-87 (Porter
                    Paint Outlot 6A).
Mun. Order   7-21-  Amending binding elements on Eastgate Shopping Center as contained in Ord. 11,
88-03        1988   Series 1986 and Ord. 10, Series 1987, docket nos. 9-47-86 and 9-81-87 (T. Buds
                    Lot Outlot 6B1).
Mun. Order   2-2-   Amending binding elements on property known as Evergreen Road Office Center,
89-02        1989   308 Evergreen Road, docket no. 9-3-88.
Mun. Order   2-11-  Amending binding elements on Middletown marine property located at 212 North
89-03        1989   English Station Road and referred to in Ord. 1, Series 1986 and Ord. 2, Series
                    1987, zoning docket no. 9-155-85.
Mun. Order   9-7-   Relating to the approval of revised district development plan for property
89-09        1989   known as 12013 Shelbyville Road (Evergreen Liquors, Inc.), docket no. 9-9-84.
Mun. Order   12-7-  Amending binding elements on Outlot 4 of Eastgate Shopping Center as contained
89-21        1989   in Ord. 11, Series 1986 and Ord. 10, Series 1987, docket nos. 9-47-86 and 9-81-
                    87 (Outlot 4; Pizza Hut).
Mun. Order   4-12-  Amending binding elements as contained in Ord. 4, Series 1988 located at north
90-04        1990   side of Shelbyville Road, 210 feet west of Linney Avenue, docket no. 9-105-87.
                    Relating to the approval of variances and conditional use permits, approval of
                    detailed development plan and approval of amended district development plan on
Mun. Order   11-1-  property located at 12910 Shelbyville Road, 800 feet more or less east of Towne
90-06        1990   Creek Road, fronting on Shelbyville Road for 103.02 feet, docket nos. B-189-90,
                    B-190-90 and B-191-90 and dockets nos. 9-19-88 and 9-52-84, and containing
                    additional binding elements or requirements.
Mun. Order   12-6-  Amending binding elements on Eastgate Shopping Center, as contained in Ord. 11,
90-07        1990   Series 1986 and Ord. 10, Series 1987, Mun. Order 88-03, docket nos. 9-47-86 and
                    9-81-87 (T. Buds Lot Outlot 6B1, now Outback Steak House).
Mun. Order   2-7-   Approval of revised general district development plan on property located at
91-02        1991   Shelbyville Road and Aiken Road and English Station Road (HS Real Estate Milou
                    Partners Assoc.), docket nos. 9-82-78 and 9-16-88.
Mun. Order   5-2-   Amending binding elements on 212 North English Station Road (Lot 2 and 3) and
91-06        1991   referred to in Ord. 1, Series 1986 and Ord. 2, Series 1987, Mun. Order 89-03,
                    zoning docket nos. 9-155-85 and B-20-91.
Mun. Order   7-11-  Amending binding elements on Eastgate Shopping Center, as contained in Ord. 11,
91-07        1991   Series 1986 and Ord. 10, Series 1987, and various municipal orders, docket nos.
                    9-47-86 and 9-81-87 (Lightnin Lube Oil Co., Lot 3, Eastgate Shopping Center).
                    Amending binding elements on Eastgate Shopping Center, as contained in Ord. 11,
Mun. Order   10-3-  Series 1986 and Ord. 10, Series 1987 and various municipal orders, docket nos.
91-08        1991   9-47-86 and 9-81-87 (Citizens Fidelity Bank, Lot 5 and Lot 6-B2 Eastgate
                    Shopping Center).
Mun. Order   10-22- Relating to binding elements on property located at 12900 U.S. Highway 60
91-09        1991   (Shelbyville Road) also fronting on the southeast side of Town Creek Road,
                    docket no. 9-39-90V and Ord. 90-15 (Bradbury Tract).
Mun. Order   11-7-  Relating to binding elements on property located at 12902 U.S. Highway 60
91-10        1991   (Shelbyville Road), docket no. 9-12-90 and Ord. 93-13 (Otte Tract).
Mun. Order   11-7-  Approval of revised general district development plan on property located at
91-11        1991   12010 Shelbyville Road (U.S. Highway 60) and 206 Evergreen Road, docket no. 9-
                    34-90 (relating to location of access to Shelbyville Road to Humana Property).
Mun. Order   1-2-   Amending binding elements on property located at 13102 Shelbyville Road, docket
92-01        1992   nos. 9-6-91 and 9-47-89.
Mun. Order   4-2-   Approval of amended district development plan on property located at 12900 U.S.
92-04        1992   Highway 60 (Bradbury Tract).
Mun. Order   4-2-   Approval of revised general district development plan on property located at
92-05        1992   405 North English Station Road (Brown Ferris Industries of Kentucky).
Mun. Order   4-2-   Amending binding elements on property at 13102 Shelbyville Road (Levy and
92-06        1992   Aberson).
Mun. Order   5-7-   Relating to revised district development plan approval and amending binding
92-07        1992   elements at 12001 U.S. 60 (Payless Cashways/Furrows).
Mun. Order   7-2-   Amending binding elements on Eastgate Shopping Center, docket nos. 9-47-86 and
92-09        1992   9-81-87 (White Mountain parking revision).
Mun. Order   8-3-   Amending binding elements on property located at the corner of Shelbyville Road
92-10        1992   and Urton Lane (Thornton Oil).
Mun. Order   9-3-   Amending binding elements on Eastgate Shopping Center (Citizens Bank), docket
92-12        1992   nos. 9-47-86 and 9-81-87.
Mun. Order   10-1-  Relating to binding elements on property located at 12900 Shelbyville Road
92-14        1992   docket no. 9-39-90V (Bradbury Tract).
Mun. Order   11-5-  Relating to binding elements on property located at 12902 U.S. Highway 60
92-15        1992   (Shelbyville Road) docket no. 9-12-90 and Ord. 90-13 (Otte Tract).
Mun. Order   11-5-  Approval of detailed district development plan on property located at 12911
92-17        1992   Shelbyville Road (Outlot No. 8 Middletown Station-Apple South, Inc.
                    Applebee’s).
Mun. Order   12-3-  Approval of detailed district development plan on property located on
92-20        1992   Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-16-88 (Captain D’s).
Mun. Order   3-4-   Relating to binding elements on property located at 12010 Shelbyville Road,
93-02        1993   docket no. 9-34-90.
Mun. Order   4-1-   Amending binding elements on docket nos. 9-6-91 and 9-47-89 (Levy and Aberson).
93-06        1993
Mun. Order   5-6-   Amending binding elements at 12900 U.S. Highway 60 (Pearson/Ratterman Funeral
93-08        1993   Home).
Mun. Order   8-5-   Approval of mailbox regulation adopted by Historic Preservation Commission.
93-14        1993
Mun. Order   9-2-   Approval of detailed district development plan on property located on
93-15        1993   Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-16-88 (Middletown Station, Wendy’s).
Mun. Order   9-2-   Amending binding elements on 13201 Data Vault Drive (formerly 212 North English
93-16        1993   Station Road) Lot 2 and Lot 3; zoning docket no. 9-155-85.
Mun. Order   9-2-   Extending expiration date for 206 Evergreen Road, docket no. 9-34-90 (Robert
93-17        1993   Holloway Property).
Mun. Order   9-2-   Extending expiration date on docket nos. 9-47-86 and 9-81-87 (Citizens Fidelity
93-18        1993   Bank-Eastgate).
Mun. Order   1-6-   Approval of detailed district development plan, docket no. 9-82-78 (Waffle
94-01        1994   House).
Mun. Order   1-6-   Approval of detailed district development plan, docket no. 9-82-78 (Concord
94-02        1994   Custom Cleaners).
Mun. Order   5-5-   Relating to revised district development plan approval and amending binding
94-03        1994   elements on property known as 12001 U.S. 60 (Payless Cashways/Furrows Lumber
                    Co.).
Mun. Order   5-5-   Amending binding elements on property located at 13102 Shelbyville Road (Levy
94-04        1994   and Aberson).
Mun. Order   8-4-   Approval of revised district development plan and amending binding elements on
94-07        1994   property located at 13620 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-19-86 (Patterson and
                    Otte).
Mun. Order   10-6-  Relating to binding elements on property located at 12010 Shelbyville Road and
94-09        1994   206 Evergreen Road, docket no. 9-34-90.
Mun. Order   10-6-  Approval of revised district development plan on property located at southwest
94-10        1994   corner of Urton Lane and Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-6-91.
Mun. Order   2-2-   Relating to detailed district development plan on property located at 12121
95-01        1995   Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-14-94, Outlot B.
Mun. Order   3-9-   Approval of revised general district development plan for property located at
95-07        1995   12121 Shelbyville Road (Middletown Professional Park).
Mun. Order   3-9-   Approval of revised general district development plan for property located on
95-08        1995   the northwest corner of Vale and Aiken Roads (Fenwick Property, Eastgate
                    Village).
Mun. Order   4-6-   Approval of detailed district development plan on property located at 12119
95-09        1995   Shelbyville Road, Middletown Professional Park (Paul’s Fruit Market).
Mun. Order   5-4-   Approval of detailed district development plan on property located at 1
95-10        1995   Evergreen Park (Ladegast and Heffner).
Mun. Order   6-1-   Approval of detailed district development plan on property located at Lot 2,
95-11        1995   Evergreen Park North (S. J. Anderson).
Mun. Order   7-6-   Approval of revised district development plan on property located at 12017
95-13        1995   Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-9-84 (Evergreen Liquors).
Mun. Order   7-6-   Approval of revision to binding element on property known as Evergreen Park
95-15        1995   North, docket no. 9-l-94 (BUG Property).
Mun. Order   8-3-   Approval of revised district development plan on property located at 129
95-14        1995   Evergreen Road, docket no. 9-111-87 (Durst and Moret).
Mun. Order   8-15-  Approval of detailed district development plan on property known as Lot 6 (now
95-17        1995   Lot 6A and 6B), Evergreen Park (Pinnacle Properties, Inc.).
Mun. Order   10-5-  Extending expiration date on Holloway property at 206 Evergreen Road.
95-18        1995
Mun. Order   10-5-  Approval of detailed district development plan for Lot 3, Evergreen Park (BUC
95-19        1995   Partnership and Pinnacle Properties).
Mun. Order   10-5-  Approval of detailed district plan for property located at Eastgate Village,
95-20        1995   north corner of Aiken and Vale Roads (Eastgate Village/Fenwick Property).
Mun. Order   11-2-  Approval of detailed district plan on property located on Lots 8 and 9
95-21        1995   Evergreen Park (BUC Partnership and Evergreen Park North Duplexes).
Mun. Order   12-21- Approval of revised general district development plan on property at Middletown
95-24        1995   Station Outlots 9 and 10, docket nos. 9-82-78 and 9-16-88.
Mun. Order   1-4-   Amending binding elements on 13201 Data Vault Drive, docket no. 9-144-85.
96-01        1996
Mun. Order   1-4-   Approval of detailed district development plan of property located at 12121
96-02        1996   Shelbyville Road, Middletown Professional Park, docket no. 9-14-94.
Mun. Order   4-12-  Approval of general and detailed district development plan for docket no. 9-6-
96-03        1996   91, Ord. 91-04 (Middletown Golf ’N Games).
Mun. Order   7-11-  Approval of revised district development plan on property located at 12715
96-06        1996   Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-81-87 (Eastgate PNC Bank, Outlot 5).
Mun. Order   7-11-  Amending binding element relating to property located at 13103 Marcus Avenue,
96-07        1996   docket no. 9-6-91 (Middletown Golf ’N Games).
Mun. Order   9-5-   Approval of detailed district development plan and amending binding elements on
96-08        1996   property located at 721 Watterson Trail, docket no. 9-43-95 (Duane-Memory
                    Place).
Mun. Order   11-7-  Approval of historic facade alteration at 11730 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-
96-09        1996   52-95 (Cindy Hall).
Mun. Order   11-7-  Approval of revised district development plan on property located at 12720
96-10        1996   Shelbyville Road (Michel Tire Company), docket no. 9-53-78.
                    Approval of revised district development plan and a detailed district
Mun. Order   11-7-  development plan on property located at Shelbyville Road and Aiken Road and
96-11        1996   English Station Road, Middletown Station, including parcel C, Outlot 10, docket
                    nos. 9-82-78 and 9-16-88 (Batteries Plus).
Mun. Order   11-7-  Approval of detailed district development plan on property located at English
96-12        1996   Station Road east of Aiken Road, docket no. 9-10-80 (Meadows Group).
Mun. Order   12-5-  Approval of tenant space on property located at 13306 Shelbyville Road and 107
96-14        1996   Urton Lane; docket no. 9-39-95 (Aberson/LDA).
Mun. Order   1-2-   Approval of a revised detailed district development plan and amending binding
97-01        1997   elements on property located at 12424 Shelbyville Road, docket nos. 9-47-86 and
                    9-81-87 (Pizza Hut).
Mun. Order   3-6-   Relating to revised district development plan for docket no. 9-50-84 (Payless
97-05        1997   Cashways/Furrows Lumber Co.).
Mun. Order   3-14-  Amending binding elements on Eastgate Shopping Center (Hollywood Video/New Plan
97-06        1997   Realty Trust) docket nos. 9-47-86 and 9-81-87.
Mun. Order   3-14-  Approval of detailed district development plan on property known as Lot 7
97-07        1997   Evergreen Park North, docket no. 9-1-94 (Pinnacle-Eagle Creek).
Mun. Order   7-3-   Approval of tenant space on property located at 13306 Shelbyville Road and 107
97-10        1997   Urton Lane (Aberson/LDA).
Mun. Order   7-3-   Amending binding element relating to property located at 13103 Marcus Avenue
97-11        1997   (Middletown Golf ’N Games).
Mun. Order   8-7-   Amending binding elements relating to property located at 11730 Old Shelbyville
97-12        1997   Road, docket no. 9-52-95.
Mun. Order   8-7-   Amending binding elements on property located at Park Place Drive (Storage
97-13        1997   USA).
Mun. Order   9-4-   Approval of detailed district development plan (Pinnacle Properties, Inc.),
97-14        1997   docket no. 9-1-94.
Mun. Order   10-23- Approval of revised general district development plan for docket no. 9-82-78
97-17        1997   (Bassett Furniture).
Mun. Order   11-6-  Relating to modification of binding elements, docket no. 9-25-94 (Eastgate
97-18        1997   Village/Fenwick Property).
Mun. Order   2-13-  Approval of detailed district development plan on property known as Lot 5 (now
98-02        1998   5A and 5B) (Pinnacle Properties, Inc.).
Mun. Order   3-5-   Approval of detailed district development plan on property known as Lot 4 (now
98-04        1998   Lot 4A and 4B).
Mun. Order   4-2-   Approval of a monument type sign on property located at 12975 Shelbyville Road,
98-05        1998   Parcel C, Outlot 10, Middletown Station, docket nos. 9-82-78 and 9-16-88
                    (Middletown Station Shoppes - BW-3).
Mun. Order   5-19-  Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property located at
98-11        1998   13110 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-12-90 (Sonic Drive-in Restaurant).
Mun. Order   6-4-   Approval of revised detailed development plan on property located at 13055
98-12        1998   Middletown Industrial Boulevard, docket no. 9-54-78 (Craig Equipment Company).
Mun. Order   6-4-   Approval of revised general district development and detailed district
98-13        1998   development plan on property located at 13110 Shelbyville Road, docket nos. 9-
                    47-89 and 9-6-91 (Middletown Center).
Mun. Order   6-4-   Approval of a detailed district development plan on property located at
98-14        1998   Shelbyville Road and Towne Creek Road, docket no. 9-39-90 (Eastgate
                    Professional Park).
Mun. Order   8-6-   Amending binding elements relating to property located at Shelbyville Road and
98-20        1998   Towne Creek Road, docket no. 9-39-90 (Eastgate Professional Park).
Mun. Order   8-6-   Approval of revised district development plan on property located at 1028
98-21        1998   Blankenbaker Road southwest corner of New Blankenbaker Road and Old
                    Blankenbaker Road (NTS Commonwealth Bluegrass Industrial Park).
Mun. Order   8-26-  Approval of detailed district development plan on property known as Evergreen
98-22        1998   Park South located at 200 Evergreen Road, docket no. 9-34-90 (BUC Partnership).
Mun. Order   2-4-   Amending binding element relating to property located at 111 Park Place Drive
99-04        1999   (Storage USA).
99-06        6-3-   Approval of a detailed development plan on property located at Blankenbaker
             1999   Parkway and Old Blankenbaker Road, docket no. 9-45-95 (Dairy Mart).
Mun. Order   6-3-   Approval of revised district development plan on property located at 12719
99-07        1999   Shelbyville Road (Eastgate Burger King).
Mun. Order   6-3-   Approval of revised district development plan to show proposed division of site
99-08        1999   by minor plats (Swan Pointe).
Mun. Order   6-3-   Approval of revised binding elements on property located at 113, 115, 117 and
99-09        1999   119 Watterson Trail (West Edelen Development Corp., Inc.).
Mun. Order   6-3-   Amending binding elements on property located at 211 Evergreen Road (Gaddie/
99-10        1999   Garr).
Mun. Order   6-3-   Approval of amended binding element on property located at Shelbyville Road and
99-11        1999   Aiken Road (Middletown Station including Parcel C).
Mun. Order   6-3-   Approval of amended binding element on property located on the north side of
99-12        1999   Ellingsworth Lane (Elite Homes).
Mun. Order   7-1-   Approval of revised district development plan on property located at 211
99-15        1999   Evergreen Road, docket no. 9-86-96 (Gaddie/Garr).
Mun. Order   8-5-   Amending binding elements (time extension) on property located at 11900 and
99-19        1999   11904 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-77-97 (Gerlach).
Mun. Order   2-3-   Approval of revised general district development plan and a detailed district
00-01        2000   development plan on property located at 12975 Shelbyville Road, Middletown
                    Station, docket nos. 9-82-78 and 9-16-88 (THP Development Company).
Mun. Order   3-2-   Denial of approval of revised detailed district development plan on property
00-02        2000   located at 12308 Aiken Road, docket no. 9-48-97 (Swigert Animal Crematory).
Mun. Order   4-6-   Approval of detailed district development plan, docket no. 9-25-94 (Eastgate
00-06        2000   Village/Fenwick property).
Mun. Order   5-4-   Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property located on
00-07        2000   the northwest corner of Aiken Road and English Station Road, docket no. 9-48-97
                    (Green Fields Commerce Center).
Mun. Order   7-6-   Approval of revised general district development plan and a detailed district
00-08        2000   development plan on property located at 815 Blankenbaker Road (Brar Office
                    Condos).
Mun. Order   10-19- Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property located at
00-12        2000   815 Blankenbaker Parkway (Brar-Paul’s Food Mart, LLC).
Mun. Order   12-13- Approval of revised district development plan on property located at 12501
00-14        2000   Shelbyville Road, containing binding elements, docket no. 9-47-86 (Kroger
                    Company/Eastgate Center).
Mun. Order   2-8-   Approval of detailed development plan on property located at 11900 and 11904
01-01        2001   Shelbyville Road (Gerlach).
Mun. Order   3-1-   Approval of the sanctuary signature entrance, 1000 through 1024 Watterson
01-02        2001   Trail, docket no. 9-55-99.
Mun. Order   3-6-   Approval of revised detailed district development plan, docket no. 9-l05-87
01-06        2001   (Hameron Properties).
Mun. Order   4-5-   Approval of revised detailed district development plan and amending binding
01-07        2001   elements on property located at 13620 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-19-86
                    (Patterson).
Mun. Order   4-5-   Approval of revised detailed district development plan and amending binding
01-07A       2001   elements; corrections to Mun. Order 01-07A (Patterson).
Mun. Order   7-5-   Relating to binding elements on property located at 13201 Data Vault Drive,
01-10        2001   docket no. 9-52-99 (Pollitt-Gregory/Gladden-Data Vault Security Dev.).
Mun. Order   11-1-  Relating to binding elements on properly located at 13404 and 13406 Shelbyville
01-15        2001   Road and 203 and 205 Urton Lane, extending expiration date (LHA Realty).
Mun. Order   12-6-  Approval of detailed district development plan at 12935-7 Shelbyville Road;
01-17        2001   docket no. 9-82-78 (Bank).
Mun. Order   12-6-  Approval of district development plan on property located at 12911 Shelbyville
01-18        2001   Road, docket no. 9-82-78 (UP Properties of Kentucky).
Mun. Order   2-7-   Approval of revised detailed development plan and amending binding elements,
02-01        2002   Middletown Station Tract no. 13, docket no. 9-82-78 (Bank).
Mun. Order   3-7-   Amending binding elements (time extension) on docket nos. 9-43-95 and 9-70-00V
02-05        2002   (Duane-Memory Place, 2.33 acres).
Mun. Order   3-7-   Amending binding elements (time extension) on docket nos. 9-43-95 and 10-29-95
02-06        2002   (Duane-Memory Place, 27.36 acres).
Mun. Order   3-7-   Approval of revised detailed district development plan and amending binding
02-07        2002   elements on property located at 11900 and 11904 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-
                    77-97 (Gerlach).
Mun. Order   3-7-   Approval of detailed district development plan and amending binding elements on
02-08        2002   properly located at 12915 Shelbyville Road in Middletown Station, docket nos.
                    9-16-88 and 9-82-78 (Middletown Partners LLC and Schlotzsky’s).
Mun. Order   5-2-   Amending binding elements on Eastgate Shopping Center, 12717 Shelbyville Road,
02-09        2002   docket nos. 9-47-86 and 9-81-87 (T. Buds Lot Outlot 6B1, Outback, now Wick’s
                    Pizza).
Mun. Order   5-2-   Approval of detailed district development plan on property located at 12975
02-10        2002   Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-82-78 (Shelby Properties, LLC/Auto Wash USA,
                    LLC).
Mun. Order   9-5-   Amending binding elements on docket nos. 9-47-86, 9-81-87 and PW-8-02 (Wick’s
02-14        2002   Pizza).
Mun. Order   9-5-   Amending binding elements on docket no. 9-27-01 (Colyer and Foy).
02-15        2002
Mun. Order   9-5-   Approval of detailed district development plan for docket no. 9-25-94 (Eastgate
02-16        2002   Village/Fenwick Property/Fenwick Business Center).
Mun. Order   9-17-  Approval of revised detailed district development plan and amending binding
02-18        2002   elements for docket no. 9-63-00 (Harley Davidson Motorcycle Dealership).
Mun. Order   12-5-  Amending binding elements and revised development plan for docket nos. 9-43-95
02-21        2002   and 9-70-00V (Memory Place-Duane).
Mun. Order   5-1-   Amending binding element relating to property located at 13103 Marcus Avenue
03-04        2003   (Middletown Golf ’N Games).
Mun. Order   7-15-  Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property located at
03-07        2003   201 Park Place Drive (Renaissance Park).
Mun. Order   12-4-  Approval of a revised detailed district development plan (Roberts Auto Stereo,
03-15        2003   Inc. d/b/a Roberts Auto Radio, Inc.).
Mun. Order   1-8-   Extending expiration date on property located at 321 and 323 North English
04-01        2004   Station Road (Colyer and Foy).
Mun. Order   2-5-   Amendment of binding elements contained in docket no. 9-81-00, Ord. 01-04
04-03        2004   (Pinnacle Properties).
Mun. Order   3-4-   Approval of revised detailed district development plan and amending binding
04-02        2004   elements on property located at 105 Urton Lane (Metro Car Wash).
Mun. Order   5-6-   Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property located at
04-08        2004   400 North English Station Road and 12314 Aiken Road (Yamaha of Louisville).
Mun. Order   5-6-   Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property located at
04-09        2004   12935-7 Shelbyville Road (Bank/Center).
Mun. Order   7-1-   Approval of revised detailed district development plan and amending binding
04-13        2004   elements on property located at 12300 Aiken Road (Jungle Jim’s).
                    Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property located at
Mun. Order   12-2-  12013 and 12017 Shelbyville Road and amending binding elements contained in
04-21        2004   Ord. 8, Series 1984 and Mun. Order 95-13, docket no. 9-9-84W (Evergreen
                    Liquors).
Mun. Order   3-3-   Relating to conditions existing on property located at 815 Blankenbaker Road,
05-08        2005   Ord. 99-08, docket no. 9-24-99.
                    Approval of revised general district development plan and revised detailed
Mun. Order   4-18-  district development plan and amending binding elements, and waiver of Chap.
06-08        2006   10.3.4.B, Chap. 10.2.4.9 and Chap. 10.2.11, on property located at 12911 and
                    12975 Shelbyville Road, in Middletown Station, docket no. 9-82-78W (Middletown
                    Station).
Mun. Order   5-4-   Approval to permit construction on property located at 12933 Shelbyville Road
06-09        2006   (Arby’s, Middletown Partners, LLC) docket no. 9-82-78W.
Mun. Order   8-3-   Approval of a revised detailed district development plan for property located
06-10        2006   at 12134 Aiken Road, docket no. 9-48-97 (Yamaha).
Mun. Order   11-9-  Correction of a real estate property description contained in Ord. 01-02
06-15        2006   relating to property located at 719 and 721 North Watterson Trail, docket no.
                    9-43-95 and docket no. 9-70-00V (Duane-Memory Place).
                    Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property and known as
Mun. Order   2-1-   Outlot Revised Tract B, Middletown Station Shops 4, located at 12975
07-02        2007   Shelbyville Road (U.S. Highway 60), docket no. 9-82-78WV (Revised Tract B,
                    Middletown Station).
                    Approval of a revised detailed district development plan and to reconfigure
Mun. Order   4-5-   building footprints and site layout for Lots 11, 12 and 13 (Tracts 1, 2 and 3)
07-06        2007   at 13801 English Villa Drive, and 13704-13712 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-
                    65-05W (The Villages of English Station II).
Mun. Order   4-12-  Approval of a roadway plan as shown on preliminary general district development
07-10        2007   plan on property known as Middletown Station located at 12975 Shelbyville Road
                    (U.S. Highway 60), docket no. 9-82-78WV.
Mun. Order   9-6-   Approval of development plan at 12601 Old Henry Road, subject to binding
07-15        2007   elements for the project known as Victory Worship Center.
Mun. Order   2-7-   Extending expiration date of the development plan on property located at 317
08-02        2008   and 319 North English Station Road, docket no. 9-11-05W.
Mun. Order   3-13-  Approval of amending binding element no. 2 on property located at 13000 Tri-
08-05        2008   County Court (325 English Station Road), case no. 10607, docket no. 9-17-06,
                    Ord. 06-13.
Mun. Order   7-10-  Approval of binding elements and revised general district development plan on
08-08        2008   property located at Middletown Station, case no. 10791, docket no. 9-82-78
                    (Target).
Mun. Order   7-16-  Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property located at
08-04        2008   13208-13210 Shelbyville Road, case no. 10834 (Commercial Center/B & C Property
                    Investments).
Mun. Order   4-22-  Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property located at
09-02        2009   12218 Aiken Road, containing 6.17 acres and containing binding elements, case
                    no. 11155 (JTH Properties, LLC).
Mun. Order   4-22-  Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property located at
09-06        2009   13404 and 13406 Shelbyville Road and 203 and 205 Urton Road (case no. 12012).
Mun. Order   7-11-  Denial of the revised detailed district development plan and revised binding
09-10        2009   elements on property located at 11840 and 11950 Ellingsworth Lane, case nos.
                    9100 and 12672 (Victory Knoll).
Mun. Order   8-13-  Waiver of a certain sidewalks shown on a development plan for property located
09-15        2009   at 12965 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 12985.
Mun. Order   8-13-  Extension of approval of the revised district development plan for property
09-16        2009   located at 317 and 319 North English Station, docket no. 12833.
Mun. Order   10-8-  Approval of the revised detailed development plan for property located at 405
09-17        2009   North English Station Road, case no. 11234.
Mun. Order   11-12- Denial of the revised detailed district development plan and revised binding
09-23        2009   elements on property located at 11840 and 11950 Ellingsworth Lane, case nos.
                    9100 and 12672 (Victory Knoll).
Mun. Order   12-10- Approval of revised detailed district development plan on property located at
09-24        2009   13404 and 13406 Shelbyville Road and 203 and 205 Urton Road, case no. 13146.
Mun. Order   2-16-  Approving the revised district development plan for property located at 801-809
10-01        2010   Blankenbaker Parkway, docket no. 13619.
Mun. Order   3-17-  Approving the detailed district development plan for property located at 12501
10-03        2010   Shelbyville Road, docket no. 13507.
Mun. Order   4-14-  Relating to the extension of approval of the revised district development plan
05-11        2011   for property located at 12218 Aiken Road, case number 15676, rezoning docket
                    #9-40-75.
Mun. Order   11-3-  Approval of a revised plan relating to the expansion of Woodland Baptist
16-11B    2011   Church, 809 North Pope Lick Road, case no. B-15004-10.
Mun. Order   11-3-  Relating to the approval of the revised district development plan for property
22-11        2011   located at 12218 Aiken Road, case number 16444.
Mun. Order   11-10- Relating to approval of revised detailed development plan for case 16205.
18-11(B)     2011
Mun. Order   1-12-  Approval of revised detailed district development plan for case number 16386.
01-12        2012
Mun. Order   5-18-  Approval of a revised development plan, landscape plan and changes to binding
07-12        2012   elements on property located at 721 Speckman Road (case number 17086, relating
                    to prior case number 9-70-00v).
Mun. Order   5-16-  Approval of a revised development plan and changes to binding elements on two
08-12        2012   adjoining parcels at 13006 Shelbyville Road (case number 17193, relating to
                    prior case number 12958).
Mun. Order   11-1-  Relating to approval of a revised development plan and changes to binding
20-12        2012   elements on property located at 12800 Fenwick Center Drive, case number DP-
                    17806-12.
Mun. Order   11-14- Relating to approval of revised detailed district development plan for case
18-12        2012   number 16386.
Mun. Order   1-9-   Relating to the approval of a detailed development plan for four adjacent lots
16-13        2013   on property located at 200 to 204 Madison Avenue and 11607 Shelbyville Road
                    containing 1.26 acres, case no. 13DEVPLAN1001.
                    Relating to the approval of revised detailed district development plan and
Mun. Order   9-12-  revised binding elements on property located at 11840 and 11950 Ellingsworth
07-13        2013   Lane containing 35.02 acres, being case number DP-19046-13 (previously case no.
                    17386).
Mun. Order   10-10- Relating to the approval of a detailed district development plan and binding
12-13        2013   elements on property located at 12912 Shelbyville Road containing 4.37 acres,
                    case number 13-DEVPLAN 1047, known as Dealer Car Search.
Mun. Order   10-10- Relating to the approval of an extension of the approved revised detailed
14-13        2013   district development plan on property located at 12218 Aiken Road containing
                    6.17 acres, case no. 11155 (JTH Properties, LLC).
Mun. Order   11-14- Relating to the approval of revised general/detailed district development plans
17-13        2013   for property located at 201 and 203 North English Station Road and 13403 -
                    13409 Shelbyville Road, (case no. 13DEVPLAN1051).
Mun. Order   1-9-   Relating to the approval of revised detailed district development plan on
01-14        2014   property located at 12218 Aiken Road, case number 11155.
Mun. Order   3-13-  Relating to the approval of revised detailed district development plan and
06-14        2014   revised binding elements on property located at 11840 and 11950 Ellingsworth
                    Lane, case number 17386.
Mun. Order   6-12-  Relating to the approval of a detailed development plan for four adjacent lots
14-15        2014   on property located at 200 to 204 Madison Avenue and 11607 Shelbyville Road,
                    case no. 13DEVPLAN1067.
14-02        6-12-  Approval of a revised district development plan for property located at 13000
             2014   Equity Place and 325 North English Station Road, case number 14zone1005.
Mun. Order   7-10-  Approving a detailed development plan at property located at 13321 Shelbyville
14-16        2014   Road, case number 14DEVPLAN1017.
Mun. Order   7-10-  Approving a detailed development plan at property located at 13313 Shelbyville
14-17        2014   Road, case number 14DEVPLAN1018.
Mun. Order   7-10-  Approving revision to binding element #20, imposed on property located at 201
14-20        2014   and 203 North English Station Road and 13403 - 13409 Shelbyville Road, case
                    number 14MOD1004.
Mun. Order   - -    Relating to the approval of revised detailed district development plan on
14-18        2014   property located at 12218 Aiken Road, case no. 14DEVPLAN1062.
14-15        8-14-  Approval of a detailed development plan on property located at 1005/11805
             2014   Ellingsworth Land and 915 Blankenbaker Parkway, case number 13zone1030.
Mun. Order   9-11-  Approving a detailed development plan at property located at 13700 English
14-19        2014   Villa Drive and 101 English Station Way, case number 14DEVPLAN1057.
                    Relating to the approval of binding element amendments and revised general/
Mun. Order   - -    detailed district development plans for property located at 201 and 203 North
14-22        2014   English Station Road and 13403 - 13409 Shelbyville Road, case number
                    14DEVPLAN1075.
Mun. Order   9-11-  Relating to the approval of a revised detailed development plan and revised
14-25        2014   binding elements on property located at 598-600 North English Station Road,
                    case number 14DEVPLAN1044.
Mun. Order   10-9-  Relating to the approval of a revised detailed development plan on property
14-28        2014   located at 13159 Middletown Industrial Boulevard, case number 14DEVPLAN1114.
Mun. Order   1-8-   Relating to the approval of a detailed district development plan and binding
01-08-15-A   2015   plans on property located at 12941 and 12961 Shelbyville Road, case number
                    14DEVPLAN1103.
Mun. Order   2-12-  Relating to the approval of a development plan on property located at 11816
02-12-15-C   2015   Shelbyville Road, Etscorn, (formerly Pond Store), case number 14VARIANCE1098.
Mun. Order   3-12-  Relating to the approval of a detailed development plan property and binding
03-12-15-A   2015   elements on property located at 12719 Shelbyville Road, Discount Tire, case
                    number 14DEVPLAN1176.
Mun. Order   3-12-  Relating to the approval of a revised general and detailed district development
03-12-15-B   2015   plan and binding elements on property located at 719 Speckman Road, Speckman
                    Road Strip Center, case number 14DEVPLAN1145.
Mun. Order   3-12-  Approving a detailed development plan property and binding elements on property
03-12-15-C   2015   located at 13311 Shelbyville Road, Middletown Commons Outlot, Panda Express,
                    case number 14DEVPLAN11150.
Mun. Order   6-16-  Approving a change in the general and detailed development plans allowing
06-11-15-B   2015   outdoor alcohol sales with an approved cup at property located at 13301
                    Shelbyville Road, Middletown Commons, case number 15CUP1017.
Mun. Order   6-16-  Approving a change in the general and detailed development plans allowing
06-11-15-C   2015   outdoor alcohol sales with an approved cup at property located at 13301
                    Shelbyville Road, Middletown Commons, case number 15CUP1017.
Mun. Order   6-16-  Approving a change in the general and detailed development plans allowing
06-11-15-D   2015   outdoor alcohol sales with an approved cup at property located at 13301
                    Shelbyville Road, Middletown Commons, case number 15CUP1017.
Mun. Order   6-16-  Approving a change in the general and detailed development plans allowing
06-11-15-E   2015   outdoor alcohol sales with an approved cup at property located at 13301
                    Shelbyville Road, Middletown Commons, case number 15CUP1017.
Mun. Order   7-9-   Approving a development plan for the installation of cellular tower on property
07-09-15-A   2015   located 1219 Blakenbaker Road, Southeast Christian, case number 15CELL1005.
Mun. Order   8-13-  Relating to the approval of a revised detailed development plan and revised
08-13-15-B   2015   binding elements on property located at 330 North English Station Road being in
                    the city of Middletown, case number 15DEVPLAN1066.
Mun. Order   9-10-  Approving a development plan for property located at 1200, 1302 Watterson Trail
09-10-15-A   2015   and 1401 Moser Road (Chapel in the Woods), case number 15VARIENCE1029.
Mun. Order   11-12- Approving a development plan for property located at 12009 Shelbyville Road
09-10-15-C   2015   (Raising Cane’s), case number 15WAIVER1023.
Mun. Order   10-22- Relating to the approval of a revised detailed development plan and revised
10-08-15-C   2015   binding elements on property located at 598-600 North English Station Road,
                    case number 15DEVPLAN1067.
Mun. Order   10-8-  Approval of an extension of the approved revised detailed district development
10-08-15-D   2015   plan on property located at 12218 Aiken Road containing 6.17 acres and
                    containing binding elements, case number 11155.
Mun. Order   1-14-  Approval of revised development plan and binding elements on property located
01-14- 16-C  2016   at 11840 and 11950 Ellingsworth Lane (Hagan properties), case number
                    15DEVPLAN1072.
Mun. Order   1-14-  Approving development plan for property located at 12201 and 12205 Old Henry
01-14- 16-D  2016   Road (Holy Angels), case number 2-5-15DCC.
Mun. Order   1-29-  Approval of revised development plan on property located at 12202, 12204, 12206
01-29- 16-A  2016   and 12212 Aiken Road, case number 15DEVPLAN1030- revision 1/25/16.
Mun. Order   2-11-  Denying development plan on property located at 13319 Shelbyville Road (Tire
02- 11016-A  2016   Discounters, Middletown Commons, case number 15ZONE1041).
Mun. Order   2-11-  Relating to compliance with binding element on property located at 598-600
02-11- 16-B  2016   North English Station Road (Blind Squirrel/King Louie's, case number
                    15DEVPLAN1067.
04-14-16-A   6-9-   Approval of development plan and binding elements on property located at 13312
             2016   Aiken Road, case number 15ZONE1033.
Mun. Order   7-14-  Approval of revised development plan on property located at 101 Huntington
07-14- 16-A  2016   Ridge Drive (Cub Bank) and containing binding elements, case number
                    16DEVPLAN1102.
Mun. Order   7-14-  Approving development plan for property located at 1407 Moser Road (Southeast
07-14- 16-B  2016   Christian Chapel in the Woods), case number 16DEVPLAN1012.
Mun. Order   7-14-  Approving development plan with landscape waivers for property located at 13307
07-14- 16-C  2016   Shelbyville Road (Double Dogs, Middletown Commons), case number 15DEVPLAN1095.
09-08-16-A   10-20- Approval of development plan and binding elements on property located at 500
             2016   North English Station Road (River Glen), case number 16ZONE1014.
Mun. Order   9-8-   Approval of revised development plan on property located at 11820 Ransum Drive
09-08- 16-B  2016   (Blankenbaker Center, Pinnacle Properties), case number 16DEVPLAN1124.
Mun. Order   10-20- Approval of revised development plan and binding elements on property located
09-08- 16-C  2016   at 598-600 North English Station Road (Blind Squirrel/King Louie's), case
                    number 16DEVPLAN1134).
Mun. Order   1-12-  Approval of revised development plan for property located at 13210 Shelbyville
01-12- 17-A  2017   Road, case number 16DEVPLAN1199.
Mun. Order   1-12-  Approval of revised detailed district development plan for property located at
01-12- 17-E  2017   13210 Shelbyville Road, Shelby Plaza, case number 15DEVPLAN1097.
Mun. Order   2-9-   Approval of a landscape waiver on property located at 101 Huntington Ridge
02-09- 17-A  2017   Drive, case number 16WAIVER1049 CUB BANK.
Mun. Order   2-9-   Approval of a revised development plan, sidewalk waiver and revised binding
02-09- 17-B  2017   elements on property located at 13015 Middletown Industrial Boulevard, case
                    number 16DEVPLAN1172, V3 Aesthetics.
Mun. Order   3-23-  Approval of a revised development plan with a waiver and amendments to the
03-23- 17-A  2017   general plan binding elements on property located at 12965 Aiken Road, case
                    number 17DEVPLAN1008 Middletown Shops 7.
Mun. Order   8-10-  Approving the detailed district development plan for property located at 100
08-10- 17-A  2017   Beckley Village Drive, case number 17DEVPLAN114, Beckley Village Condo.
Mun. Order   9-14-  Approving an amended development plan for property located at 1407 Moser Road,
09-14- 17-B  2017   case number 16DEVPLAN1012 Southeast Chapel in the Woods.
Mun. Order   10-3-  Approval of a revised development plan with a waiver and amendments to the
10-03- 17-A  2017   general plan binding elements on property located at 11840 and 11880
                    Ellingsworth Lane, case number 17DEVPLAN1085 Paddock at Victory Knoll.
Mun. Order   11-9-  Approval of a revised detailed district development plan and binding elements
11-09- 17-A  2017   on property located at 114 Urton Lane, case number 17DEVPLAN1167 Middletown
                    Apartments.
Mun. Order   12-14- Approval of a revised development plan on property located at 13200 Shelbyville
12-14- 17-A  2017   Road, case number 17DEVPLAN1173, Tire Discounters.
                    Approval of a revised detailed development plan and revised binding elements on
Mun. Order   1-11-  property located at 598-600 North English Station Road (tax block 0023, Lots
01-11-18-A   2018   0142, 0273, and 0660) containing 13.6 acres, case number 17DEVPLAN1209, King
                    Louie’s Blind Squirrel.
Mun. Order   3-8-   Approval of a detailed district development plan for property located at 12104
03-08-18-A   2018   Shelbyville Road, case number, 17DEVPLAN1223, Transcend Credit Union.
Mun. Order   4-12-  Approving a detailed district development plan on property located at 13319
04-12-18-A   2018   Shelbyville Road, containing 0.75 acres, case number 17DEVPLAN1211, Krispy
                    Kreme, Middletown Commons.
Mun. Order   3-14-  Approval of a revised detailed district development plan on property located at
03-14-19-A   2019   12913 Shelbyville Road, case number 18DEVPLAN1200, First Watch.
Mun. Order   3-14-  Approval of a revised detailed district development plan on property located at
03-14-19-C   2019   13025 Middletown Industrial Boulevard, case number 18DEVPLAN1213, Hi- Float
                    Building.
Mun. Order   6-13-  Approval of a revised detailed district development plan on property located at
04-11-19-A   2019   121 Huntington Ridge Drive, case number 18DEVPLAN1172, Schumacher Homes Office.
Mun. Order   11-14- Approval of waivers and a detailed district development plan on property
11-14-19-A   2019   located at 12965 Shelbyville Road, case number 19-DDP-0024, Middletown Station
                    Apartments.
Mun. Order   2-11-  Approval of a detailed district development plan on property located at 13105
02-11-21-A   2021   Middletown Industrial Boulevard, case number 19-DDP-0028, Lichtefeld, Inc.
Mun. Order   3-11-  Approval of a detailed district development plan on property located at
03-11-21-C   2021   Eastgate Professional Park, 201-331 Townepark Circle, case number 20-DDP-0075
                    and 20-DDP-0076.
Mun. Order   7-8-   Approval of a detailed district development plan on property located at 11701 &
07-08-21-A   2021   11715 Gateworth Way, case number 21-DDP-0043, Tesla.
Mun. Order   10-14- Approval of a revised detailed district development plan with amended binding
10-14-21-A   2021   elements on property located at 12945 Shelbyville Road, Suds Car Wash.
                   
 
TABLE VI: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No.              Date Passed Description
16, Series 1984       9-17-1984   Dedicating Vale Avenue as a public easement.
                                  Accepting three easements along Old
Mun. Order 07-14-16-E 7-14-2016   Shelbyville Road for construction of multi-
                                  use path known as the Louisville Loop Multi-
                                  Use Path.
                                  Granting sanitary sewer and drainage easement
Mun. Order 03-10-16-C 3-11-2016   at edge of Old Shelbyville Road and covering
                                  two parcels of land referenced in D.B., 5624,
                                  Pg. 484 and D.B., 8657, Pg. 982.
                                 
 
TABLE VII: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.                      Date Passed Description
5, Series 1981                - -         Granting a cable franchise
                                          Granting a franchise to Storer
8, Series 1981                6-30-1981   Communication to construct,
                                          maintain and operate a community
                                          antenna television system.
14, Series 1981               9-17-1981   Cable franchise, abandonment of
                                          cable property
13, Series 1984               9-6-1984    Providing for an increase in basic
                                          cable television rates.
                                          Granting consent and approval to
Mun. Order 92-13              10-1-1992   restructurings relating to the
                                          grantee of the cable television
                                          franchise for the city.
                                          Approving the renewal and
                                          amendment of a franchise agreement
96-03                         2-1-1996    for community antenna television
                                          services of TCI TKR of Jefferson
                                          County, Inc., d/b/a TKR Cable of
                                          greater Louisville.
                                          Approving a transfer of control of
                                          intermedia partners of Kentucky,
Mun. Order 99-21              9-2-1999    L.P. from Intermedia Capital
                                          Management VI, LLC To Insight
                                          Communications Company, L.P.
                                          Approving the extension of the
                                          franchise agreement for community
14-01                         2-13-2014   antenna television (CATV) services
                                          of Insight Kentucky Partners II
                                          L.P.
07-14-16-B                    8-11-2016   Granting communications franchise
                                          to Google Fiber.
                                          Authorizing uniform communications
07-14-16-C                    8-11-2016   franchise agreement with Extenet
                                          Systems.
                                          Approving a right-of-way usage
Mun. Order 02-08-18-C         2-8-2018    franchise agreement relating to
                                          communications services.
                                          Authorizing the Mayor to enter
                                          into a uniform franchise agreement
Mun. Order 08-09-18-A         - -         with MCImetro Access Transmission
                                          Services Corp, regarding
                                          communications facilities and
                                          services.
Mun. Order 05-13-21-E, Series             Authorizing the Mayor to enter
2021                          5-13-2021   into a uniform franchise agreement
                                          with InterCarrier Networks LLC.
                                         
 
TABLE VIII: LANDMARK DESIGNATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.         Date Passed Description
                             Relating to a landmark designation in the city
Mun. Order 89-13 11-30-1989  (11403 Shelbyville Road; Hitching Post Saddle
                             Shop, Inc.).
                             Relating to a landmark designation in the city
Mun. Order 89-14 11-30-1989  (11709 Main Street; James A. Wolfe Rental
                             Properties, Inc.).
                             Relating to a landmark designation in the city
Mun. Order 89-15 11-30-1989  (12125 Old Shelbyville Road; Red Barn Antique
                             Mall-Scott and Warmuth Tract).
                             Relating to a landmark designation in the city
Mun. Order 89-16 11-30-1989  (113 Harrison Avenue; Old Schoolhouse Points
                             Tract).
Mun. Order 89-17 11-30-1989  Relating to a landmark designation in the city
                             (11800 Herrick Lane; Booth-Wilson Tract).
Mun. Order 89-18 11-30-1989  Relating to a landmark designation in the city
                             (400 Tucker Station Road; Lauter Tract).
                             Relating to a landmark designation in the city
Mun. Order 89-19 11-30-1989  (11700 Main Street; Middletown Methodist Church;
                             three tracts).
                             Relating to a landmark designation in the city
Mun. Order 89-20 11-30-1989  (11600 Main Street; Old Gas Station; Vermillion
                             Tract).
 
TABLE IX: LANDSCAPING PLANS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.              Date Passed Description
                                  Approval of landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 92-19      12-3-1992   located at 12911 Shelbyville Road (docket no.
                                  9-16-88; Apple South, Inc.).
Mun. Order 93-09      5-6-1993    Approval of sign plan and landscaping plan
                                  (Captain D’s).
                                  Approval of landscaping plan on property
Mun. Order 98-06      4-2-1998    located at 113, 115, 117 and 119 Watterson
                                  Trail (West Edelen Development Corp., Inc.).
                                  Approval of a landscape waiver to allow
Mun. Order 98-16      7-2-1998    removal of interior trees planted within
                                  Texas Gas easement.
                                  Approval of landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 98-17      7-2-1998    located at 13110 Shelbyville Road (Middletown
                                  Center).
                                  Approval of landscape plan for property
Mun. Order 99-06      5-6-1999    located at Eastgate Professional Park
                                  (Pinnacle Properties).
                                  Approval of landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 00-05      4-6-2000    located at 502 North English Station Road
                                  (Montana).
                                  Approval of landscaping plan on property
Mun. Order 00-09      7-6-2000    being located at 510 North English Station
                                  Road (docket no. 9-25-94; Fenwick Property).
                                  Approving landscaping plan for 12975
Mun. Order 02-12      6-6-2002    Shelbyville Road (docket no. 9-82-78; Auto
                                  Wash USA, LLC).
                                  Approval of landscaping plan on property
Mun. Order 02-19      11-7-2002   located at 515 Blankenbaker Parkway (docket
                                  no. 9-06-02; Pennzoil).
Mun. Order 02-20      12-5-2002   Approval of landscape plan (docket no. 9-63-
                                  00; Harley Davidson Motorcycle Dealership).
Mun. Order 04-10      5-6-2004    Approval of landscape plan on property
                                  located at 1710 Shelbyville Road (Auto Zone).
                                  Approval of landscaping plan on property
Mun. Order 04-12      6-3-2004    located at 400 N. English Station Road and
                                  12314 Aiken Road (Yamaha of Louisville).
                                  Approval of landscaping plan on property
Mun. Order 04-19      11-4-2004   located at 903 Blankenbaker Parkway (docket
                                  no. 9-15-03VPW; King Southern Bank).
                                  Approval of landscaping plan on property
Mun. Order 06-04      3-2-2006    located at 211 N. English Station Road
                                  (docket no. 9-54-05W; United Rentals).
                                  Approval of landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 06-12      11-2-2006   located at 214 Bliss Avenue (docket no. 9-47-
                                  05 and 10-25-05; Ord. 06-07).
                                  Approval of landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 07-17      10-4-2007   located at Villages at English Station (case
                                  no. 9497).
                                  Approval of landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 07-19      10-9-2007   located at 12405 Old Shelbyville Road (docket
                                  no. 9-11-06; Dr. Akridge property).
                                  Approval of the landscape plan for a revised
                                  detailed district development plan on
Mun. Order 08-04A     7-16-2008   property located at 13208 through 13210
                                  Shelbyville Road (case no. 10834; Commercial
                                  Center/Band C Property Investments).
                                  Relating to the approval of the final
Mun. Order 09-14      8-13-2009   landscape plan on property located at 13404
                                  and 13406 Shelbyville Road and 203 and 205
                                  Urton Road (case no. 12012).
                                  Approval of a landscaping and construction
Mun. Order 10-07      4-22-2010   plans for property located at 12111
                                  Shelbyville Road (docket no. 11127).
                                  Relating to the approval of revised landscape
Mun. Order 17-12      10-11-2012  and tree preservation plan on property
                                  located at 13045 Middletown Industrial
                                  Boulevard, case number L-18001 and 17720.
                                  Relating to the approval of a landscape plan
Mun. Order 13-13      10-10-2013  on property located at 598-600 North English
                                  Station Road, (Tax block 0023, lots 0142,
                                  0273 & 0660) containing 13.6 acres.
                                  Relating to the approval of a landscape plan
Mun. Order 02-14      1-9-2014    for property located at 201 and 203 North
                                  English Station Road and 13403 - 13409
                                  Shelbyville Road, case no. 13DEVPLAN1051.
                                  Relating to the approval of a final landscape
Mun. Order 07-14      4-10-2014   plan on property located at 11840 and 11950
                                  Ellingsworth Lane, case number 17386.
                                  Relating to the approval of landscape waivers
14-02                 6-12-2014   on property located at 13000 Equity Place and
                                  325 North English Station Road, case number
                                  14zone1005.
                                  Relating to the approval of landscape waivers
14-15                 8-14-2014   on property located at 1005/11805
                                  Ellingsworth Land and 915 Blankenbaker
                                  Parkway, case number 13zone1030.
                                  Approval of landscape plan (as well as the
Mun. Order 05-19-16-C 5-19-2016   tree preservation plan) for property located
                                  at 12202, 12204, 12206 and 12212 Aiken Road,
                                  case number 15LSCAPE 1060.
Mun. Order 12-08-16-B 12-8-2016   Waiver of landscaping for property at 13403
                                  Shelbyville Road, case number 16WAIVER1042.
                                  Approval of a landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 01-12-17-C 1-12-2017   located at 11820 Ransum Drive, case number
                                  16SCAPE1176 Blankenbaker Center II.
                                  Approval of a landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 07-13-17-A 7-13-2017   located at 12218 Aiken Road, case number
                                  17LSCAPE1062, JTH Properties, Jim
                                  Hafendorfer.
                                  Approving of a landscape plan for property
Mun. Order 8-10-17- D 8-10-2017   located at 12501 Shelbyville Road, case
                                  number 17LSCAPE1095 and 16DEVPLAN1199,
                                  Kroger.
                                  Approval of a landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 10-12-17-A 10-12-2017  located at 500 N. English Station, case
                                  number 17LSCAPE1161 River Glen.
                                  Approval of a landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 12-14-17-B 12-14-2017  located at 11840 Ellingsworth, case number
                                  17LSCAPE1187, Paddock at Victory Knoll.
                                  Approval of a landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 01-11-18-C 1-11-2018   located at 114 Urton Lane, case number
                                  17LSCPE1211, Middletown apartments.
                                  Approval of a landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 02-01-08-A 2-1-2018    located at 1113200 Shelbyville Road,
                                  17LSCAPE1201, Tire Discounters.
                                  Approval of a landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 03-08-18-D 3-8-2018    located at 12923 and 13309 Urton Lane,
                                  17LSCAPE1209, Storypoint.
                                  Approval of a landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 05-15-18-C 5-15-2018   located at 1407 Moser Road, case number
                                  18LSCAPE1023, Southeast, Chapel in the Woods.
                                  Relating to the approval of a landscape plan
Mun. Order 12-13-18-C 12-13-2018  on property located at 11840 Ellingsworth
                                  Lane, case number 18LSCAPE1150, Victory Knoll
                                  apartments.
                                  Approval of a revised landscape plan on
Mun. Order 03-14-19-B 3-14-2019   property located at 12923 and 13309 Urton
                                  Lane, case number 17LSCAPE1209, Storypoint.
                                  Approval of a landscape plan on property
Mun. Order 07-09-20-B 7-9-2020    located at 12304 Old Henry Road, case number
                                  20-LANDSCAPE-0078.
                                 
 
 
TABLE X: LEASES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
22,    12-6-  Authorizing the execution of deeds to and a lease agreement with the
Series 1984   Middletown Capital Projects Corporation.
1984
Mun.   5-6-   Approving a Series 1993A lease and a Series 1993B lease with Kentucky
Order  1993   Municipal Finance Corporation for the financing of municipal buildings.
93-11
Mun.   5-6-
Order  1993   Relating to approving the undertaking of a project.
93-12
Mun.   12-2-
Order  1993   Relating to approval of lease between city and St. Mary’s Day Center, Inc.
93-19
Mun.   3-3-   Approval of extension of lease agreement with Eastern Area Communities
Order  2005   Ministries, Inc.
05-05
Mun.   3-3-   Approval of extension of lease agreement with St. Mary’s Day Center, Inc., d/
Order  2005   b/a St. Mary’s Center.
05-06
Mun.   3-3-   Approval of extension of lease agreement with Louisville East-Middletown
Order  2005   Chamber of Commerce, Inc.
05-07
Mun.
Order  7-13-  Approval of a lease for the Community Center.
07-13- 2017
17-C
Mun.          Approving the cancellation of the lease between the city and Middletown
Order  10-11- Woman’s Club and approving deeding the two parcels of property that make up
10-11- 2018   11719 Shelbyville Road back to the Middletown Woman’s Club.
18-B
             
 
TABLE XI: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.              Date Passed Description
                                  Relating to the approval of an agreement
Mun. Order 93-03      3-4-1993    concerning purchase of real estate known as
                                  11700 Main Street (Middletown United
                                  Methodist Church).
                                  Relating to approval of deed of gift to city
Mun. Order 96-04      5-9-1996    of historic gas station property by the
                                  Middletown Medical Center, Inc.
Mun. Order 05-16      6-7-2005    Approving an agreement to purchase the metro
                                  portion of Middletown City Hall.
                                  Accepting transfer of incorporated property
                                  from the City of Anchorage; property lying
08-10                 9-11-2008   within the right-of-way of Glenbrook Road and
                                  adjacent to the northwest corner of Block 8,
                                  Lot 1.
                                  Transferring incorporated property to the
08-11                 9-11-2008   City of Anchorage; property lying within the
                                  right-of-way of Parkway and adjacent to the
                                  southern boundaries of Block 7, Lots 4 and 5.
                                  Relating to the possible purchase of real
                                  property located in the city; Mayor is
Mun. Order 09-07      4-29-2009   authorized to negotiate possible purchase of
                                  approximately 5.5 acres of property known as
                                  the rear of 108 Urton Lane.
Mun. Order 10-14      6-5-2014    Relating to the purchase of real property
                                  located at 11905 Old Shelbyville Road.
                                  Establishing Facility Use Agreement with
                                  policies that govern rentals of city
Mun. Order 03-10-16-A 3-10-2016   property, including the Court Yard, the
                                  Gazebo in the Park, the Social Hall and the
                                  Sanctuary.
Mun. Order 10-4-18-A  10-11-2018  Relating to the possible purchase of real
                                  property located in the city.
                                  Relating to the possible purchase of real
Mun. Order 10-18-18-A 10-18-2018  property located at 11913 Old Shelbyville
                                  Road.
                                  Waiver of a certain use restriction relating
Mun. Order 10-10-19-B 10-10-2019  to the possible purchase of property located
                                  at 12105 Old Shelbyville Road.
                                 
 
TABLE XII: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
13,    11-22- Rezoning from C-1 Commercial to C-2 Commercial on property located
Series 1982   at 12004 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-4-82.
1982
10,           Rezoning from C-5 Professional Office and C-N Neighborhood
Series 9-8-   Commercial to R-9 Apartment Office on property located on the south
1983   1983   side of Old Middletown Road and Shelbyville Road, containing 4.33
              acres, docket no. 9-14-83.
12,    10-6-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial on
Series 1983   property located on the south side of Shelbyville Road, containing
1983          17.485 acres more or less, docket no. 9-28-83.
13,    11-3-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to M-2 Industrial on
Series 1983   property located on the southwest side of North English Station
1983          Road, docket no. 9-78-82.
8,     7-5-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential and C-1 Commercial to C-
Series 1984   2 Commercial on property located at 12017 Shelbyville Road and
1984          Evergreen Road.
9,     8-2-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-2 Commercial on
Series 1984   property located 154 feet more or less northwest of Shelbyville
1984          Road, docket no. 9-26-84.
19,    10-25- Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential and C-1 Commercial to C-
Series 1984   2 Commercial on property located at 12001 Shelbyville Road, docket
1984          no. 9-50-84.
20,    11-15- Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial on
Series 1984   property located on the south side of Shelbyville Road, docket no.
1984          9-52-84.
23,    1-3-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-N Neighborhood
Series 1985   Commercial on property located on the southwest corner Main Street
1984          and Watterson Trail, docket no. 9-63-84.
5,     8-1-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to M-2 Industrial on
Series 1985   property located at 504 English Station Road, docket no. 9-95-84.
1985
1,     4-3-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to M-2 Industrial on
Series 1986   property located at 211 English Station Road, containing eight acres
1986          more or less, docket no. 9-155-85.
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial on
4a,           property fronting the southwest side of U.S. 60 a distance of 625
Series 7-3-   feet more or less at a point which is 375 feet more or less
1986   1986   southeast of Juneau Drive and 867.60 feet more or less northwest of
              Shelbyville Road, containing 2.91 acres more or less, docket no. 9-
              83-85.
5,     7-3-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to R-7B Apartment Office
Series 1986   on property located at 12211 Old Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-30-
1986          86.
11,           Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential, M-1 Industrial and M-
Series 9-17-  2 Industrial to C-2 Commercial on property located on the northwest
1986   1986   corner of Shelbyville Road and Aiken Road, containing 22.853 acres,
              docket no. 9-47-86.
8,            Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial on
Series 11-13- property located at the southeastern corner of the intersection of
1986   1986   Shelbyville Road and English Station Road, containing 1.98 acres
              more or less, docket no. 9-19-86.
9,     11-13- Denying request for rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to
Series 1986   R-7B Apartment on property located at 111 Harrison Avenue, docket
1986          no. 9-40-86.
12,    11-13- Rezoning from R-5 Residential to C-1 Commercial on property located
Series 1986   at the southwest intersection of U.S. Highway 60 and Juneau Drive,
1986          docket no. 9-65-86.
13,    12-4-
Series 1986   Amending Ord. 12, Series 1983, docket no. 9-28-83.
1986
2,     5-7-
Series 1987   Amending Ord. 1, Series 1986, docket no. 9-155-85.
1987
10,    12-28- Rezoning the property described in docket no. 9-81-87 from R-
Series 1987   4 Single-Family Residential, R-7 Multi-Family Residential and OR-
1987          3 Office Residential to C-2 Commercial.
       - -    Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential and C-1 Commercial to R-
88-06  1988   9 Apartment Office on property located at 303 Evergreen Road, docket
              no. 9-3-88.
2,     4-7-   Denial of a rezoning request from R-4 Single-Family Residential to
Series 1988   R-9 Apartment Office at 108 Watterson Trail, docket no. 9-103-87V.
1988
4,            Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to R-7B Apartment and C-
Series 5-5-   1 Commercial on the Hamm Tract fronting on the north side of
1988   1988   Shelbyville Road 220 feet, 210 feet east of Linney Avenue,
              containing 2.0 acres, docket no. 9-105-87.
5,     5-5-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to R-7B Apartment on
Series 1988   property located at 129 Evergreen Road, docket no. 9-111-87.
1988
88-12  8-4-   Rezoning from C-1 Commercial to OR-3 Office Residential on property
       1988   located at 12902 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-19-88.
       9-1-   Rezoning from OR-3 Office Residential and R-4 Single-Family
88-13  1988   Residential to C-1 Commercial on property located at 12801 and 12901
              Shelbyville Road, containing 3.5 acres, docket no. 9-16-88.
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to OTF Office Tourist
88-16  12-1-  District and C-1 Commercial on property located at 12801 and 1012
       1988   Ellingsworth Road, containing 2.77 acres more or less, docket no. 9-
              64-88V.
89-01  5-4-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to M-2 Industrial on
       1989   property located at 208 Vale Road, docket no. 9-63-88.
Mun.   10-5-  Designation of Middletown Historic Preservation District Number
Order  1989   Five.
89-11
       11-30- Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-2 Commercial on
89-12  1989   property located at 13102 Shelbyville Road, containing 5.7 acres,
              docket no. 9-47-89.
90-03  3-1-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-2 Commercial at
       1990   11509 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-87-89V.
90-07  6-14-  Rezoning from OR-1 Office Residential to OR-2 Office Residential at
       1990   210 Evergreen Road, docket no. 9-113-89V.
              Rezoning from M-2 Industrial to M-3 Industrial on the south side of
90-08  6-14-  Avoca Road, 3,100 feet more or less east of the intersection of Old
       1990   Henry and English Station Roads, 750 feet more or less northwest of
              the Gene Snyder Freeway, docket no. 9-5-90C.
       10-4-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family to C-2 Commercial on property
90-13  1990   located at 13110 Shelbyville Road, containing 0.90 acres, docket no.
              9-12-90.
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to R-7 Multi-Family
       10-18- Residential on 8.77 acres; from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-
90-15  1990   1 Commercial on 4.00 acres; and from R-6 Multi-Family Residential to
              C-1 Commercial on 2.46 acres on property at 12900 U.S. Highway 60
              (Shelbyville Road), docket no. 9-39-90V.
91-01  3-14-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial on
       1991   property located at 11813 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-64-90.
       5-16-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-2 Commercial on
91-04  1991   property located on the south corner of Shelbyville Road and Urton
              Lane, containing 9.54 acres, docket nos. 9-6-91 and 9-47-89.
       8-1-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial on
91-07  1991   property located at 13208 Shelbyville Road, containing 1.61 acres,
              docket no. 9-20-91.
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential and C-1 Commercial to
91-08  8-19-  OR-3 Office Residential on property located at 12010 Shelbyville
       1991   Road and 206 Evergreen Road, containing 5.43 acres, docket no. 9-34-
              90.
       10-22- Rezoning from C-1 Commercial to C-2 Commercial on property located
91-09  1991   at 11514 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-35-91 (Midas Muffler and
              Sauer property).
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial on
       12-5-  property located on the southeast corner of Shelbyville Road and
91-10  1991   Urton Lane fronting on Shelbyville Road for 294.48 feet and on Urton
              Lane 259.67 feet, containing 1.08 acres, docket no. 9-37-91
              (Thornton Oil Co.).
       8-6-   Rezoning from M-2 Industrial to C-2 Commercial on property located
92-04  1992   at 211 North English Station Road, containing 4.44 acres, docket no.
              9-25-92LW (Pollitt-Gregory and Associates).
94-04  6-2-   Rezoning property owned by BUC partnership, docket nos. 9-1-94 and
       1994   10-1-94.
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential, M-1 Industrial and M-
94-05  8-4-   2 Industrial to C-2 Commercial and OR-3 Office Residential on
       1994   property located at 12121 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-14-94
              (Yunt).
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential and C-2 Commercial to R-
              6 Residential Multi-Family and M-2 Industrial on 19.6 acres of the
94-07  10-5-  property located on the northwest corner of Vale and Aiken Roads,
       1994   fronting 175 feet more or less on the west side of English Station
              Road and having a related subdivision docket no. 10-22-94,
              containing 55.9 acres, docket no. 9-25-94 (Fenwick property).
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to R-5 Single-Family
       11-14- Residential on property located at 1103 and 1201 Ellingsworth Lane,
95-04  1995   approximately 500 feet east of Blankenbaker Road, containing 14.86
              acres and having a related subdivision docket no. 10-26-95, docket
              no. 9-35-95 (Belmont Park Innovative Subdivision).
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to R-5 Single-Family
       11-14- Residential and R-6 Multi-Family Residential on property located at
95-05  1995   721 Watterson Trail, containing 27.36 acres and having a related
              subdivision docket no. 10-29-95, docket no. 9-43-95 (Duane-Memory
              Place).
       2-1-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-N Neighborhood
96-01  1996   Commercial on property located at 11730 Old Shelbyville Road, docket
              no. 9-52-95.
       2-1-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial on
96-02  1996   property located at 13306 Shelbyville Road and 107 Urton Lane,
              docket no. 9-39-95.
       3-21-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to OR-3 Office
96-05  1996   Residential on property located at 215 North English Station Road,
              docket no. 9-63-95.
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial on
96-06  5-9-   property located at 1028 Blankenbaker Road (northwest intersection
       1996   of I-64 and Blankenbaker Road), containing 8.782 acres, docket no.
              9-45-95.
       4-10-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to OR-3 Office
97-03  1997   Residential on property located at 211 Evergreen Road, docket no. 9-
              86-96.
Mun.   6-5-   Denial of request for rezoning on property located at 203 North
Order  1997   Madison Avenue, docket no. 9-5-97 (Jacobs).
97-08
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to R-5A Multi-Family
97-09  8-7-   Residential on property located west of Tucker Station Road and
       1997   south of Ellingsworth Lane, containing 52.05 acres, docket no. 9-18-
              97 (Swan Pointe).
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to OR-3 Office
97-10  9-4-   Residential (office condominiums) on property located at 113, 115,
       1997   117 and 119 Watterson Trail, docket no. 9-23-97 (West-Edelen
              Development Corp.).
       9-11-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to M-2 Industrial on
97-11  1997   property located at 12218 and 12300 Aiken Road, containing 6.165
              acres, docket no. 9-40-97 (Jungle Jim’s and James T. Hafendorfer).
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-M Commercial
97-14  11-9-  Manufacturing on property located on the northwest corner of Aiken
       1997   Road and English Station Road, containing 5.99 acres, docket no. 9-
              48-97 (Green Fields Associates, LLC).
Mun.   2-13-  Approval of minor subdivision plat on property known as Lot 5 (now
Order  1998   Lot 5A and 5B) Evergreen Park (Pinnacle Properties).
98-03
              Rezoning from R-5 Single-Family Residential and OR-3 Office
98-06  8-6-   Residential to C-1 Commercial on property located at 11900 and 11904
       1998   Shelbyville Road, containing 30,492 square feet, docket no. 9-77-97
              (Gerlach).
Mun.   8-6-   Approval of new minor subdivision plat on property known as Lot 5
Order  1998   (now Lot 5A and Lot 5B) Evergreen Park North (Pinnacle Properties,
98-19         Inc.).
       8-6-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to R-5 Single-Family
98-08  1998   Residential on property located at 1207 Ellingsworth Road,
              containing 10.21 acres, docket no. 9-24-98 (William’s Ridge).
       8-26-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to OR-3 Office
98-07  1998   Residential on property located at 202 Evergreen Road, containing
              0.49 acres, docket no. 9-23-98 (BUC Partnership).
       6-3-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to M-1 Industrial on
99-03  1999   property located at 502 North English Station Road, containing 0.479
              acres, docket no. 9-98-98 (Montana).
       7-1-   Rezoning from C-1 Commercial to C-2 Commercial on property located
99-07  1999   at 11704 Shelbyville Road, containing 0.466 acres, docket no. 9-9-99
              (Middletown Fire Protection District and Roberts Auto Radio, Inc.).
99-09  9-16-  Rezoning from C-1 Commercial to C-3 Commercial on property located
       1999   at 12200 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 9-78-96 (Stein Automotive).
       10-7-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to OR Office Residential
99-08  1999   on property located at 815 Blankenbaker Road, containing 4.16 acres,
              docket no. 9-24-99 (Robertson/Brar).
       10-7-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial on
99-10  1999   property located at 815 Blankenbaker Road, containing 1.23 acres
              more or less, docket no. 9-24-99 (Robertson/Brar - Commercial).
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial on
99-11  10-7-  property located at 13404 and 13406 Shelbyville Road and 203 and 205
       1999   Urton Lane, containing 6.38 acres, docket no. 9-50-99 (LHA Realty -
              Office/Hotel).
       12-2-  Rezoning from C-2 Commercial to M-2 Industrial on property located
99-12  1999   at 13201 Data Vault Drive, containing 1.0 acres, docket no. 9-52-99
              (Pollitt-Gregory/Gladden).
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to R-5A Multi-Family
99-13  1-6-   Residential on property located at 1000-1024 Watterson Trail,
       2000   containing 12.31 acres, docket no. 9-55-99 (Grady and Parker/
              Westerman).
              Rezoning from R-4 Residential Single-Family to OR Office Residential
00-02  4-13-  and M-2 Industrial on property located at 12214 Aiken Road,
       2000   containing 0.732 acres in the OR tract and 1.263 acres in the M-
              2 tract. docket no. 9-93-99V (DeWitt).
       11-20- Rezoning from R-4 Residential Single-Family to M-2 Industrial on
00-06  2000   property located at 612 North English Station Road, containing 0.96
              acres, docket no. 9-48-00 (Pope).
01-01  1-4-   Rezoning from C-l to C-2 Commercial on property located at Gateworth
       2001   Way, containing 4.459 acres, docket no. 9-63-00 (Bachman).
       2-1-   Rezoning from R-6 Multi-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial at 719
01-02  2001   and 721 Watterson Trail, docket nos. 9-43-95 and 9-70-00V (Duane-
              Memory Place).
       3-1-   Rezoning from R-7 Multi-Family Residential to OR-3 Office
01-04  2001   Residential on property located Towne Creek Road/Shelbyville Road,
              docket no. 9-81-00 (Abbott-Bradbury/Pinnacle).
       3-6-   Rezoning from R-4 Residential Single-Family to C-N Commercial
01-05  2001   Neighborhood on property located at 12210 Old Shelbyville Road,
              docket no. 9-84-00VPWLW (Thorpe Commercial Group).
       9-6-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to OR-3 Office
01-09  2001   Residential on property located at 321 and 323 North English Station
              Road (Colyer and Foy).
       12-10- Rezoning from M-2 Industrial to C-M Commercial Manufacturing on
01-10  2001   property at 13015 Middletown Industrial Boulevard (Orr Properties
              Limited Partnership).
       5-2-   Rezoning from OR Office Residential to C-l Commercial on property
02-01  2002   located at 815 Blankenbaker Parkway, docket no. 9-06-02 (Pennzoil/
              McClinton Properties/Paul’s Food Mart).
       11-6-  Rezoning from R-4 Residential to C-l Commercial on property located
03-05  2003   at 903 Blankenbaker Parkway, docket no. 9-15-03 (King Southern
              Bank).
Mun.   4-7-   Approval of a Category 3 review on property located at 920
Order  2005   Blankenbaker Parkway, docket no. 3-44-04 (Southeast Christian
05-11         Church, Southeast Christian Ministry Resource Center).
       7-7-   Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to OR-3 Office
05-04  2005   Residential on property located at 317 and 319 North English Station
              Road, containing 1.0 acres, docket no. 9-11-05W.
       1-5-   Rezoning from C-2 Commercial to PEC Planned Employment Center on
06-02  2006   property located at 211 North English Station Road, docket no. 9-54-
              05W.
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential and C-1 Commercial to R-
              5A Multi-Family Residential (17.69 acres), C-1 Commercial (10.75
       3-2-   acres), C-2 Commercial (0.21 acres) and OR-3 Office-Residential
06-03  2006   (2.84 acres) and a subdivision named Villages of English Station II
              (10-41-05) on property located at 101, 201 and 209 English Station
              Way; 13620, 13704, 13712 and 13714 Shelbyville Road and 13801
              English Villa Drive, docket nos. 9-65-05 and 10-41-05.
       4-6-   Rezoning from R-4 and R-5 Single-Family Residential to R-5A Multi-
06-07  2006   Family Residential on property located at 214 Bliss Avenue,
              containing 4.64 acres, docket nos. 9-47-05 and 10-25-05.
              Rezoning from R-4 Single Family Residential to R-5A Multi-Family
06-09  6-1-   Residential and major subdivision to create public right-of-way and
       2006   two lots on property located at 100 Beckley Woods Drive, docket nos.
              9-76-05 and 10-05-06.
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-M Commercial
06-13  9-7-   Manufacturing and M-2 Industrial on property located at 325 North
       2006   English Station Road, containing 12.0 total acres (4.73 acres M-2,
              7.27 acres C-M), docket no. 9-17-06.
              Rezoning from R-5 Single-Family Residential to OR Office Residential
       10-4-  and a variance to allow a structure and parking to encroach into the
06-14  2006   25-foot side and rear property lines on property located at 12405
              Old Shelbyville Road (tax block 297, Lots 25 and 26; Dr. Alan
              Akridge), docket no. 9-11-06V.
Mun.          Approval and concurrence with recommendations of Development Review
Order  6-7-   Committee of Louisville/Jefferson County Metro Planning and design
07-12  2007   services relating to Category 3 Plan review of Southeast Christian
              Student Ministry Building, project no. 8642.
       12-6-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to R-6 Multi-Family
07-06  2007   Residential on property located at 11840 and 11950 Ellingsworth
              Lane, containing 35.02 acres, case no. 9100 (Victory Knoll).
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential and C-2 Commercial to C-
08-12  9-11-  1 Commercial for four adjacent lots on property located at 200, 202
       2008   and 204 Madison Avenue and 11607 Shelbyville Road containing 1.26
              acres, docket no. 9379.
       9-11-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to OR-3 Office
08-13  2008   Residential on property located at 114 Urton Lane (tax block 437,
              Lot 7), containing 4.83 acres, docket no. 9081.
       9-11-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial and C-
08-14  2008   2 Commercial on property located at 211, 213, 215 and 217 Urton
              Lane, containing 7.14 acres, docket no. 8419.
09-01  2-12-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to C-2 Commercial with a
       2009   conditional use permit at 12111 Shelbyville Road, docket no. 11127.
       2-12-  Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential to OR-3 Office
09-02  2009   Residential and C-1 Commercial at 803 Speckman Road, docket no.
              10034.
              Rezoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential and R-7 Multi-Family
              Residential to C-1 Commercial, change in Form District from Suburban
              Marketplace to Suburban Marketplace Corridor, conditional use permit
       5-13-  for outdoor alcohol sale and consumption for restaurants in C-
10-03  2010   1 Zoning, variance for reducing required yard along the northern
              property line from 50 feet to 25 feet and approval of detailed
              district development plan at property located at 201 and 203 North
              English Station Road and 13311, 13317, 13403, 13407 and 13409
              Shelbyville Road, docket no. 10723.
       12-16- Relating to the change of zoning from R-4 Single-Family Residential
10-07  2010   to C-1 Commercial on two adjoining parcels at 13006 Shelbyville
              Road, docket no. 12958.
       4-16-  Relating to the change of zoning from R-4 Single Family Residential
12-01  2012   to R-5A Multifamily Residential for the construction of apartments
              on property located at 12950 Shelbyville Road, case number 16134.
              Relating to the change of zoning from C-1 Commercial to C-
       1-10-  2 Commercial, from OR Office/Residential to C-2 Commercial, and from
12-07  2013   OR Office/Residential to C-1 Commercial to permit auto sales,
              parking lot, and offices on property located at 815 Blakenbaker
              Parkway and 11820 Ransum Drive, case number 17223.
              Relating to the change in form district from N, Neighborhood, to SW,
              Suburban Workplace; a change in zoning from M-2 and M-3, Industrial,
13-03  5-9-   to EZ-1, Enterprise Zone; and R-4 Single Family Residential, to C-M,
       2013   Commercial Manufacturing on property located at 598-600 North
              English Station Road (Tax block 0023, lots 0142,0273 & 0660)
              containing 13.6 acres, case number 16739.
       6-12-  Relating to the change in zoning from OR-3 (Office Residential) to
14-02  2014   M-2 (Industrial) for property located at 13000 Equity Place and 325
              North English Station Road, case number 14zone1005.
       8-14-  Relating to the approval of a change in zoning from R-4 Residential
14-15  2014   to C-1 Commercial on property located at 1005/11805 Ellingsworth
              Land and 915 Blankenbaker Parkway, case number 13zone1030.
Mun.          Denial of a request for a change in zoning from R-6 to C-1, with a
Order  11-13- conditional use permit, variance, landscape waver, revised
14-30  2014   development plan and binding elements on property located at 11840
              and 11950 Ellingsworth Lane, case number 14ZONE1026.
11-12- 11-18- Relating to the approval of rezoning from R4 to R6 for property
15-A   2015   located at 12202, 12204, 12206 and 12212 Aiken Road, case number
              15ZONE1030.
Mun.
Order  2-11-  Denial of request for zoning change from C-1 to C-2 for property
02-11- 2016   located at 13319 Shelbyville Road, case number 15ZONE1041.
16-A
04-14- 6-9-   Relating to approval of rezoning from R4 to M-2 for property located
16-A   2016   at 13312 Aiken Road, case number 15ZONE1033.
09-08- 10-20- Relating to approval of rezoning from R4 to CM for property located
16-A   2016   at 500 North English Station Road, case number 16ZONE1014.
08-10- 9-14-  Relating to the approval of rezoning from R4 to R6 approval of
17-B   2017   detailed development plan and binding elements on property located
              at 12933 and 13309 Urton Lane, case number 17ZONE1011 Storypoint.
Mun.          Relating to the denial of rezoning from R5 to C1 and denial of
Order  9-14-  detailed development plan and binding elements on property located
09-14- 2017   at 111 Juneau Drive, case number 17ZONE1002 K. Towery.
17-D
06-14- 8-9-   Relating to the approval of a change in zoning and revised detailed
81-A   2018   district development plan on property located at 12113 Shelbyville
              Road, containing 0.48 acres (case number 17ZONE1077) Stor All.
12-13- 1-10-  Relating to the approval of rezoning from R5 to C1 and approval of
18-A   2019   detailed district development plan and binding elements on property
              located at 111 Juneau Drive, case number 17ZONE1002.
              Relating to the approval of a change in zoning from R4 to R7 and
02-13- 3-12-  detailed district development plan on property located at 108 Urton
20-A   2020   Lane, containing 5.6 acres (case number 19ZONE0057) Clove-Urton Lane
              Senior Apartments.
Mun.
Order  4-8-   Approval relating to a Category 2B Plan on property located at 12405
04-08- 2021   Shelbyville Road, Todd’s Car Wash.
21-B
Mun.
Order  5-13-  Approval relating to a Category 2 Plan on property located at 11506
05-13- 2021   Shelbyville Road, Scooter’s Coffee.
21-A
              Relating to the approval of a zoning change from RR-4 and C-1 to PEC
10-12- 11-9-  and C-1 with a general district development plan and binding
2023-A 2023   elements on property located at 207 and 209 North English Station
              Road.
             
 
TABLE XIII: STREETS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.                Date Passed Description
                                    Closing an old alley or passway lying just
18, Series 1984         6-4-1984    north of Main Street and running in an
                                    east-west direction.
3, Series 1986          5-1-1986    Proceeding with improvements by special
                                    assessment of Vale Avenue.
                                    Closing an alley located parallel to Main
                                    Street (Old Shelbyville Road) extending
1, Series 1987          6-4-1987    east from Tucker Station Road (Madison
                                    Avenue) about 150 feet and being about 250
                                    feet south of Main Street.
                                    Closing a 50-foot portion of Vale Road at
7, Series 1987          12-28-1987  its south intersection with Aiken Road, at
                                    a point which is 630 feet more or less
                                    northeast of Shelbyville Road.
                                    Dedicating a 53-foot portion of New Vale
8, Series 1987          12-28-1987  Road located at its south intersection with
                                    New Aiken Road at a point which is 630 feet
                                    more or less southeast of Shelbyville Road.
                                    Acceptance of dedication of a portion of
Mun. Order 92-16        11-5-1992   Eastbridge Court within the Canterbury
                                    Place Condominium Project.
                                    Accepting from the state the ownership of
Mun. Order 08-06        5-19-2008   Main Street and Old Shelbyville Road,
                                    contingent upon paving by the state.
08-07                   9-11-2008   Closing Johnson Avenue.
08-08                   9-11-2008   Closing Parkway.
                                    Accepting public street right-of-way;
Mun. Order 10-02        3-16-2010   Brookmoor Drive, shown as a publicly
                                    dedicated right-of-way in Plat Book 51,
                                    Page 17.
                                    Closing a portion of Speckman Road, running
12-05                   5-16-2012   north from its intersection with Martin
                                    House Lane.
                                    Closing an unnamed alley between 11411 and
Mun. Order 08-13-15-A   8-13-2015   11719 Main Street on the west side of First
                                    Baptist Church.
Mun. Order 11-12-15-B   11-12-2015  Accepting street lights in the Willowgate
                                    subdivision.
12-08-16-A, Series 2016 1-12-2017   Closing an unnamed roadway west of Urton
                                    Lane.
                                    Accepting streets and sidewalks in the
Mun. Order 02-09-17-C   2-9-2017    Willowgate subdivision sections 1 through
                                    3.
                                    Relating to the acceptance of street
Mun. Order 08-10-17-C   8-10-2017   lighting for Middletown Industrial
                                    Boulevard.
06-13-19-A              7-11-2019   Closing an alley south of Shelbyville Road
                                    and east of Madison Avenue.
Mun. Order 09-12-19-A   9-12-2019   Accepting street lights in the Urton Woods
                                    subdivision.
                                    Approving right-of-way application attached
Mun. Order 09-12-19-D   9-12-2019   to Municipal Order 09-12-19-D as Exhibit
                                    One.
                                   
 
TABLE XIV: VARIANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.              Date Passed Description
                                  Approval of exception to sign regulations
Mun. Order 92-18      11-5-1992   relating to property located at 12401
                                  Shelbyville Road (Rainbow Blossom, Inc.).
                                  Relating to approval of variances on property
Mun. Order 97-16      10-9-1997   located on the northwest corner of Aiken Road
                                  and English Station Road (docket no. 9-48-97;
                                  Green Fields Associates, LLC).
Mun. Order 00-04      3-2-2000    Approval of signage exception for property
                                  located at 11601 Main Street.
                                  Approval of sidewalk waiver at northwest
Mun. Order 00-10      8-3-2000    corner of Vale and Aiken Roads (docket no.
                                  10-22-94; Eastgate).
                                  Approval of a variance allowing height of
                                  attached sign to exceed 25 feet and amending
Mun. Order 00-13      10-19-2000  the district development plan accordingly on
                                  property located at Blankenbaker Parkway and
                                  Old Blankenbaker Road (docket no. 9-45-95;
                                  Dairy Mart).
                                  Relating to the variance allowing a building
                                  to exceed the maximum height, and approval of
Mun. Order 05-12      4-7-2005    a category 3 review on property located at
                                  920 Blankenbaker Parkway (docket no. b-254-
                                  04; Southeast Christian Church, Family
                                  Activities Center).
                                  Relating to the approval of certain waivers
Mun. Order 01-11      2-10-2011   and variances relating to the expansion of
                                  Woodland Baptist Church, 809 North Pope Lick
                                  Road, case number B-15004-10.
                                  Relating to the granting of exceptions to
Mun. Order 02-11      2-10-2011   sign regulations for Middletown United
                                  Methodist Church.
                                  Granting an exception to the sign regulations
Mun. Order 14-11      5-18-2011   for the Midtown Center, 12001-12003
                                  Shelbyville Road.
                                  Granting an exception to the sign regulations
Mun. Order 11-14      6-12-2014   for property located at 13401 Shelbyville
                                  Road, Suite 140.
                                  Relating to the approval of a building
14-15                 8-14-2014   variance on property located at 1005/11805
                                  Ellingsworth Lane and 915 Blankenbaker
                                  Parkway, case number 13zone1030.
                                  Granting an exception to the sign regulations
Mun. Order 08-08-19-C 8-8-2019    for property located at Transcend Credit
                                  Union, 12104 Shelbyville Road.
                                  Relating to the approval of a variance 20-
Mun. Order 02-11-21-B 2-11-2021   Variance-0175 on property located at 11601
                                  Shelbyville Road.
                                 
 
TABLE XV: WATER SERVICE EXTENSIONS
 
Ord. No.         Date Passed Description
                             Authorizing extension of water service to real
96-09            7-11-1996   property along North Pope Lick Road from Urton
                             Lane south to near I-64.
                             Authorizing extension of water service to the
98-05            8-6-1998    owners of real property located along Urton Lane
                             from the new fire station to an existing water
                             main lying in Urton Lane near the Snyder Freeway.
                             Authorizing extension of water service to real
99-01            1-7-1999    property along English Station Road from
                             Shelbyville Road to Urton Lane.
Mun. Order 09-25 12-10-2009  Approval of the drainage plan for property located
                             at 405 North English Station Road, case no. 11234.
                            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Municipal Orders
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cite Code Section
KRS Cite                  Code Section
6.050                     32.47
6.955—6.975             34.04
Chapter 11, Part 8        152.006
15.518                    37.182
15.520                    37.043—
                          37.045
18A.225                   112.04
Chapter 31                35.26
Chapters 39A to 39E       37.066
41.240                    34.66
41.240(4)                 34.05;
42.450—42.495           34.04
Chapter 44                113.17
Chapter 45A               35.26
Chapter 56                35.26
61.252                    37.111;
                          38.016
61.373—61.377           37.187
61.394                    37.187
61.805-61.850             33.003
61.810                    38.076
61.823(2)—(4)           91.020
61.870—61.882           31.36
                          35.15;
                          35.27;
61.870—61.884           37.092;
                          38.073;
                          38.078—
                          38.080
61.870(1)                 35.01
61.870(2)                 35.01
61.870(3)                 35.01
61.870(4)                 35.01
61.870(5)                 35.01
61.870(6)                 35.01
61.870(7)                 35.01
61.870(8)                 35.01
61.870(10)                35.15
61.872—61.884           38.020
61.872(1)—(3)           35.15
61.872(4)                 35.16
61.872(5)                 35.17
61.872(6)                 35.18
61.874(1)                 35.22
61.874(2)                 35.22
61.874(3)                 35.23
61.874(4)                 35.23
61.874(5)                 35.24
61.874(6)                 35.25
61.878                    35.01
61.878(1)                 35.26
61.878(2)                 35.26
61.878(3)                 35.26
61.878(4)                 35.26
61.878(5)                 35.26
61.880                    35.19
61.880(1)                 35.26
61.884                    35.21
62.060                    31.04
65.003                    38.003
65.067                    31.04
65.120                    Chapter 72
65.8801—65.8839         39.02
65.8801—65.8840         92.04
65.8815(5)                39.04
65.8840                   92.04;
                          97.99
66.480                    34.60;
                          34.64
66.480(1)(a)              34.66
66.480(1)(b)              34.66
66.480(1)(c)              34.66
66.480(1)(d)              34.66
66.480(1)(e)              34.66
66.480(1)(f)              34.66
66.480(1)(g)              34.66
66.480(1)(h)              34.66
66.480(1)(i)              34.66
66.480(1)(j)              34.66
66.480(1)(k)              34.66
66.480(1)(l)              34.66
66.480(2)                 34.66
66.480(2)(a)              34.67
66.480(2)(b)              34.67
66.480(2)(d)(1)—(2)(d)(434.67
66.660                    91.006
67.753                    114.24
82.082                    38.003
                          30.02;
Chapter 83A               31.20;
                          37.044
83A.010(3)                10.02
83A.010(6)                10.02
83A.010(8)                10.02
83A.030(2)                30.02;
                          37.002
83A.040                   30.02
83A.040(1)                31.21
83A.040(2)(a)             31.21
83A.040(2)(b)             31.21
83A.040(2)(d)             31.21
83A.040(3)                31.21
83A.040(4)                32.01
83A.040(5)                32.02
83A.040(6)                31.21;
                          32.02
83A.040(7)                31.21;
                          32.02
83A.040(8)                31.21;
                          32.02
83A.040(9)                31.03
                          30.02;
83A.050                   31.20;
                          32.01
83A.060(1)                32.35
83A.060(2)                32.36
83A.060(3)                32.37
83A.060(4)                32.38
83A.060(5)                32.39
83A.060(6)                32.20
83A.060(7)                32.38
83A.060(8)                32.40;
                          32.41
83A.060(9)                32.42
83A.060(10)               32.43
83A.060(11)               32.44
83A.060(12)               32.45
83A.060(13)               32.45
83A.060(14)               32.46
83A.060(15)               32.47
83A.065                   10.99;
                          91.999
83A.070(1)                31.02
83A.070(2)                31.02
83A.075                   31.02
                          31.35;
83A.080                   37.045;
                          38.004
83A.080(2)                31.35
83A.080(3)                31.03;
                          31.35
83A.080(4)                31.20
83A.080(5)                31.20
83A.085                   31.36;
                          31.37
83A.090                   32.04
83A.130—83A.150         31.21
                          30.02;
83A.140                   37.002;
                          40.03
83A.140(1)                30.01
83A.140(2)                37.002
83A.140(3)                32.03
83A.140(4)                31.21;
                          32.15
83A.140(5)                32.03
83A.140(6)                32.04;
                          37.002
83A.140(8)                32.03
83A.175                   32.02
Chapter 91A               Chapter 111
91A.010                   34.01
91A.010(8)                10.02
91A.020                   34.01
91A.030                   34.03
91A.040                   34.04
91A.040(2), (4)           34.04
91A.050                   34.04
                          34.05;
91A.060                   34.60;
                          34.66;
                          34.68
91A.080                   112.08;
                          112.99
91A.080(12)               112.01
91A.080(13)               112.03
91A.200                   34.21
91A.210                   34.20
91A.220                   34.21
91A.230                   34.22
91A.240                   34.23
91A.250                   34.24
91A.260                   34.25
91A.270                   34.25
91A.280                   34.27
91A.290                   34.28
92.330                    114.30
95A.292                   37.182
Chapter 100               152.005
100.111                   152.006
100.413                   33.025
100.415                   33.026
Chapter 107               34.21
Chapters 116—121        31.20
118.305(7)                32.02
131.010(6)                112.05
131.190                   35.26
132.285                   36.01
Chapter 136               36.06
Chapter 152               152.080
Chapter 154               35.26
174.100                   91.020
174.100(1)                91.021
174.100(2)                91.022
174.100(3)                91.023
174.100(4)                91.024
174.100(5)                91.025
177.830—177.890         152.006
178.290                   91.006
186.042                   72.14
189.020                   71.37
189.285                   73.02
189.287                   73.01
189.290                   71.35
189.330(8)                71.02
189.338                   70.20
189.450(5)                72.03
189.450(6)                72.03
189.460                   72.14
189.580                   71.20
189.725                   72.08
189.930                   71.36
189.990                   71.20
189.993(8)                71.99
Chapter 198B              150.03
198B.070                  150.03
217.900                   37.066
Chapter 218A              113.06
218A.010                  37.066
Chapter 226               111.01
Chapter 227               93.03
227.990(1)                150.99
Chapter 241               31.39
                          31.39;
                          39.06;
Chapters 241—244        39.10;
                          39.12;
                          113.01;
                          113.99
241.160                   31.39
243.020                   113.18
243.042                   113.10;
                          113.11
243.082                   113.10;
                          113.11
243.084                   113.10;
                          113.11
243.360                   113.02
243.480                   39.06;
                          39.12
243.490                   39.06;
                          39.12
243.630                   113.09
Chapter 244               113.12
244.050                   113.14
244.083                   113.13
244.150                   113.16
257.010                   90.01
257.100(1)                90.07
257.100(2)                90.07
257.100(3)                90.07
257.100(4)                90.07
Chapter 304               112.99
Chapter 304, Subtitle 17B 112.03
318.990                   150.99
Chapter 335B              37.030
337.285                   37.129
Chapter 342               112.04
342.610(4)                37.066
342.640                   37.066
Chapter 344               37.061
365.650—365.695         110.01
376.275                   72.26
376.275(1)                72.27
376.275(2)                72.27
376.275(5)                72.27
376.275(8)                72.27
                          32.42;
Chapter 424               34.04;
                          34.24;
                          34.25
424.120                   34.04
424.130                   72.99
424.220                   34.04
424.220(6)(b)             34.04
424.260                   34.70
431.005                   31.38
431.015                   31.38
436.600                   90.05;
                          90.99
446.010(1)                10.02
446.010(2)                10.02
446.010(8)                10.02
446.010(10)               10.02
446.010(11)               10.02
446.010(13)               10.02
446.010(14)               10.02
446.010(15)               10.02
446.010(16)               10.02
446.010(18)               10.02
446.010(19)               10.02
446.010(24)               10.02
446.010(26)               10.02
446.010(27)               10.02
446.010(28)               10.02
446.010(30)               10.02
446.010(31)               10.02
446.010(33)               10.02
446.010(37)               10.02
446.010(39)               10.02
446.010(43)               10.02
446.010(46)               10.02
446.010(47)               10.02
446.010(49)               10.02
446.010(55)               10.02
446.020(1)                10.03
446.020(2)                10.03
446.030                   10.04
446.050                   10.05
446.060                   10.06
446.080(1)                10.03
446.080(3)                10.03
446.080(4)                10.03
446.090                   10.07
446.100                   10.08
446.110                   10.09
446.140                   10.01
525.125                   90.03;
                          90.04
                          90.03;
525.130                   90.04;
                          90.99
525.135                   90.04;
                          90.99
534.040(2)(c)             10.99
                          
 
REFERENCES TO MUNICIPAL ORDERS
Mun. Order No. Date Passed Code Section
Mun. Order No.          Date Passed Code Section
88-01                   7-21-1988   TSO Table V
88-03                   7-21-1988   TSO Table V
88-04                   9-1-1988    33.008
88-05                   9-1-1988    33.003
89-01                   1-5-1989    153.01
89-02                   2-2-1989    TSO Table V
89-03                   2-11-1989   TSO Table V
89-04                   5-4-1989    12.01
89-05                   5-4-1989    32.17
89-06                   5-4-1989    32.18
89-07                   6-1-1989    TSO Table III
89-09                   9-7-1989    TSO Table V
89-11                   10-5-1989   TSO Table XII
89-13                   11-30-1989  TSO Table VIII
89-14                   11-30-1989  TSO Table VIII
89-15                   11-30-1989  TSO Table VIII
89-16                   11-30-1989  TSO Table VIII
89-17                   11-30-1989  TSO Table VIII
89-18                   11-30-1989  TSO Table VIII
89-19                   11-30-1989  TSO Table VIII
89-20                   11-30-1989  TSO Table VIII
89-21                   12-7-1989   TSO Table V
90-01                   1-4-1990    TSO Table IV
90-02                   1-4-1990    TSO Table IV
90-04                   4-12-1990   TSO Table V
90-05                   11-1-1990   12.02
90-06                   11-1-1990   TSO Table V
90-07                   12-6-1990   TSO Table V
91-02                   2-7-1991    TSO Table V
91-05                   5-2-1991    TSO Table IV
91-06                   5-2-1991    TSO Table V
91-07                   7-11-1991   TSO Table V
91-08                   10-3-1991   TSO Table V
91-09                   10-22-1991  TSO Table V
91-10                   11-7-1991   TSO Table V
91-11                   11-7-1991   TSO Table V
91-13                   12-5-1991   TSO Table IV
92-01                   1-2-1992    TSO Table V
92-04                   4-2-1992    TSO Table V
92-05                   4-2-1992    TSO Table V
92-06                   4-2-1992    TSO Table V
92-07                   5-7-1992    TSO Table V
92-08                   6-4-1992    TSO Table IV
92-09                   7-2-1992    TSO Table V
92-10                   8-3-1992    TSO Table V
92-12                   9-3-1992    TSO Table V
92-13                   10-1-1992   TSO Table VII
92-14                   10-1-1992   TSO Table V
92-15                   11-5-1992   TSO Table V
92-16                   11-5-1992   TSO Table XIII
92-17                   11-5-1992   TSO Table V
92-18                   11-5-1992   TSO Table XIV
92-19                   12-3-1992   TSO Table IX
92-20                   12-3-1992   TSO Table V
93-12                   - -1993     TSO Table X
93-02                   3-4-1993    TSO Table V
93-03                   3-4-1993    TSO Table XI
93-06                   4-1-1993    TSO Table V
93-07                   5-6-1993    TSO Table I
93-08                   5-6-1993    TSO Table V
93-09                   5-6-1993    TSO Table IX
93-10                   5-6-1993    TSO Table IV
93-11                   5-6-1993    TSO Table X
93-13                   8-5-1993    TSO Table IV
93-14                   8-5-1993    TSO Table V
93-15                   9-2-1993    TSO Table V
93-16                   9-2-1993    TSO Table V
93-17                   9-2-1993    TSO Table V
93-18                   9-2-1993    TSO Table V
93-19                   12-2-1993   TSO Table X
94-01                   1-6-1994    TSO Table V
94-02                   1-6-1994    TSO Table V
94-03                   5-5-1994    TSO Table V
94-04                   5-5-1994    TSO Table V
94-05                   5-20-1994   TSO Table IV
94-06                   6-2-1994    TSO Table IV
94-07                   8-4-1994    TSO Table V
94-09                   10-6-1994   TSO Table V
94-10                   10-6-1994   TSO Table V
94-11                   12-5-1994   33.062
94-12                   12-5-1994   33.060;
                                    33.061
95-01                   2-2-1995    TSO Table V
95-07                   3-9-1995    TSO Table V
95-08                   3-9-1995    TSO Table V
95-09                   4-6-1995    TSO Table V
95-10                   5-4-1995    TSO Table V
95-11                   6-1-1995    TSO Table V
95-12                   6-1-1995    TSO Table IV
95-13                   7-6-1995    TSO Table V
95-15                   7-6-1995    TSO Table V
95-14                   8-3-1995    TSO Table V
95-16                   8-3-1995    TSO Table IV
95-17                   8-15-1995   TSO Table V
95-18                   10-5-1995   TSO Table V
95-19                   10-5-1995   TSO Table V
95-20                   10-5-1995   TSO Table V
95-21                   11-2-1995   TSO Table V
95-24                   12-21-1995  TSO Table V
96-01                   1-4-1996    TSO Table V
96-02                   1-4-1996    TSO Table V
96-03                   4-12-1996   TSO Table V
96-04                   5-9-1996    TSO Table XI
96-05                   5-22-1996   TSO Table IV
96-06                   7-11-1996   TSO Table V
96-07                   7-11-1996   TSO Table V
96-08                   9-5-1996    TSO Table V
96-09                   11-7-1996   TSO Table V
96-10                   11-7-1996   TSO Table V
96-11                   11-7-1996   TSO Table V
96-12                   11-7-1996   TSO Table V
96-14                   12-5-1996   TSO Table V
97-01                   1-2-1997    TSO Table V
97-05                   3-6-1997    TSO Table V
97-06                   3-14-1997   TSO Table V
97-07                   3-14-1997   TSO Table V
97-08                   6-5-1997    TSO Table XII
97-09                   6-5-1997    TSO Table IV
97-10                   7-3-1997    TSO Table V
97-11                   7-3-1997    TSO Table V
97-12                   8-7-1997    TSO Table V
97-13                   8-7-1997    TSO Table V
97-14                   9-4-1997    TSO Table V
97-15                   9-11-1997   TSO Table IV
97-16                   10-9-1997   TSO Table XIV
97-17                   10-23-1997  TSO Table V
97-18                   11-6-1997   TSO Table V
98-02                   2-13-1998   TSO Table V
98-03                   2-13-1998   TSO Table XII
98-04                   3-5-1998    TSO Table V
98-05                   4-2-1998    TSO Table V
98-06                   4-2-1998    TSO Table IX
98-09                   5-7-1998    TSO Table IV
98-10                   5-7-1998    TSO Table IV
98-11                   5-19-1998   TSO Table V
98-12                   6-4-1998    TSO Table V
98-13                   6-4-1998    TSO Table V
98-14                   6-4-1998    TSO Table V
98-15                   6-17-1998   TSO Table IV
98-16                   7-2-1998    TSO Table IX
98-17                   7-2-1998    TSO Table IX
98-18                   7-2-1998    TSO Table IV
98-19                   8-6-1998    TSO Table XII
98-20                   8-6-1998    TSO Table V
98-21                   8-6-1998    TSO Table V
98-22                   8-26-1998   TSO Table V
99-04                   2-4-1999    TSO Table V
99-05                   2-4-1999    TSO Table I
99-06                   5-6-1999    TSO Table IX
99-07                   6-3-1999    TSO Table V
99-08                   6-3-1999    TSO Table V
99-09                   6-3-1999    TSO Table V
99-10                   6-3-1999    TSO Table V
99-11                   6-3-1999    TSO Table V
99-12                   6-3-1999    TSO Table V
99-13                   7-1-1999    11.01
99-14                   7-1-1999    TSO Table I
99-15                   7-1-1999    TSO Table V
99-17                   7-29-1999   TSO Table IV
99-18                   8-5-1999    TSO Table IV
99-19                   8-5-1999    TSO Table V
99-21                   9-2-1999    TSO Table VII
00-01                   2-3-2000    TSO Table V
00-02                   3-2-2000    TSO Table V
00-03                   3-2-2000    TSO Table IV
00-04                   3-2-2000    TSO Table XIV
00-05                   4-6-2000    TSO Table IX
00-06                   4-6-2000    TSO Table V
00-07                   5-4-2000    TSO Table V
00-08                   7-6-2000    TSO Table V
00-09                   7-6-2000    TSO Table IX
00-10                   8-3-2000    TSO Table XIV
00-11                   9-7-2000    TSO Table III
00-12                   10-19-2000  TSO Table V
00-13                   10-19-2000  TSO Table XIV
00-14                   12-13-2000  TSO Table V
01-01                   2-8-2001    TSO Table V
01-02                   3-1-2001    TSO Table V
01-06                   3-6-2001    TSO Table V
01-07                   4-5-2001    TSO Table V
01-07A                  4-5-2001    TSO Table V
01-08                   6-7-2001    TSO Table IV
01-09                   6-7-2001    TSO Table IV
01-10                   7-5-2001    TSO Table V
01-12                   8-2-2001    TSO Table III
01-13                   8-2-2001    TSO Table IV
01-14                   8-2-2001    TSO Table IV
01-15                   11-1-2001   TSO Table V
01-17                   12-6-2001   TSO Table V
01-18                   12-6-2001   TSO Table V
02-01                   2-7-2002    TSO Table V
02-05                   3-7-2002    TSO Table V
02-06                   3-7-2002    TSO Table V
02-07                   3-7-2002    TSO Table V
02-08                   3-7-2002    TSO Table V
02-09                   5-2-2002    TSO Table V
02-10                   5-2-2002    TSO Table V
02-11                   5-2-2002    TSO Table IV
02-12                   6-6-2002    TSO Table IX
02-13                   7-11-2002   TSO Table I
02-14                   9-5-2002    TSO Table V
02-15                   9-5-2002    TSO Table V
02-16                   9-5-2002    TSO Table V
02-18                   9-17-2002   TSO Table V
02-19                   11-7-2002   TSO Table IX
02-20                   12-5-2002   TSO Table IX
02-21                   12-5-2002   TSO Table V
03-04                   5-1-2003    TSO Table V
03-07                   7-15-2003   TSO Table V
03-08                   8-7-2003    TSO Table I
03-10                   8-7-2003    TSO Table I
03-12                   9-4-2003    TSO Table IV
03-11                   9-19-2003   TSO Table IV
03-15                   12-4-2003   TSO Table V
04-01                   1-8-2004    TSO Table V
04-03                   2-5-2004    TSO Table V
04-02                   3-4-2004    TSO Table V
04-08                   5-6-2004    TSO Table V
04-09                   5-6-2004    TSO Table V
04-10                   5-6-2004    TSO Table IX
04-11                   5-6-2004    TSO Table IV
04-12                   6-3-2004    TSO Table IX
04-13                   7-1-2004    TSO Table V
04-14                   7-1-2004    TSO Table I
04-15                   7-1-2004    TSO Table I
04-19                   11-4-2004   TSO Table IX
04-16                   12-2-2004   TSO Table I
04-21                   12-2-2004   TSO Table V
04-23                   12-2-2004   TSO Table I
05-05                   3-3-2005    TSO Table X
05-06                   3-3-2005    TSO Table X
05-07                   3-3-2005    TSO Table X
05-08                   3-3-2005    TSO Table V
05-11                   4-7-2005    TSO Table XII
05-12                   4-7-2005    TSO Table XIV
05-16                   6-7-2005    TSO Table XI
05-17                   9-1-2005    TSO Table I
06-03                   2-23-2006   TSO Table IV
06-04                   3-2-2006    TSO Table IX
06-06                   4-6-2006    TSO Table III
06-08                   4-18-2006   TSO Table V
06-09                   5-4-2006    TSO Table V
06-10                   8-3-2006    TSO Table V
06-12                   11-2-2006   TSO Table IX
06-15                   11-9-2006   TSO Table V
07-01                   1-4-2007    TSO Table I
07-02                   2-1-2007    TSO Table V
07-06                   4-5-2007    TSO Table V
07-07                   4-5-2007    TSO Table IV
07-08                   4-5-2007    TSO Table IV
07-10                   4-12-2007   TSO Table V
07-11                   5-3-2007    TSO Table I
07-12                   6-7-2007    TSO Table XII
07-15                   9-6-2007    TSO Table V
07-17                   10-4-2007   TSO Table IX
07-19                   10-9-2007   TSO Table IX
08-02                   2-7-2008    TSO Table V
08-05                   3-13-2008   TSO Table V
08-06                   5-19-2008   TSO Table XIII
08-07                   6-5-2008    TSO Table I
08-09                   6-25-2008   37.01
08-08                   7-10-2008   TSO Table V
08-10                   7-10-2008   31.21
08-04                   7-16-2008   TSO Table V
08-04A                  7-16-2008   TSO Table IX
08-11                   10-9-2008   TSO Table IV
08-12                   11-13-2008  TSO Table I
08-13                   11-13-2008  TSO Table IV
09-01                   1-8-2009    TSO Table I
09-03                   3-12-2009   TSO Table IV
09-05                   3-12-2009   153.01
09-02                   4-22-2009   TSO Table V
09-06                   4-22-2009   TSO Table V
09-07                   4-29-2009   TSO Table XI
09-09                   5-14-2009   TSO Table IV
09-11                   7-9-2009    TSO Table IV
09-12                   7-9-2009    TSO Table I
09-10                   7-11-2009   TSO Table V
09-14                   8-13-2009   TSO Table IX
09-15                   8-13-2009   TSO Table V
09-16                   8-13-2009   TSO Table V
09-20                   8-13-2009   90.28
09-17                   10-8-2009   TSO Table V
09-21                   10-8-2009   TSO Table IV
09-23                   11-12-2009  TSO Table V
09-24                   12-10-2009  TSO Table V
09-25                   12-10-2009  TSO Table XV
10-01                   2-16-2010   TSO Table V
10-04                   3-11-2010   TSO Table IV
10-02                   3-16-2010   TSO Table XIII
10-03                   3-17-2010   TSO Table V
10-07                   4-22-2010   TSO Table IX
10-06                   6-10-2010   TSO Table IV
10-10                   9-9-2010    TSO Table IV
10-11                   10-14-2010  TSO Table IV
01-11                   2-10-2011   TSO Table XIV
02-11                   2-10-2011   TSO Table XIV
05-11                   4-14-2011   TSO Table V
12-11                   4-14-2011   TSO Table IV
14-11                   5-18-2011   TSO Table XIV
19-11                   10-13-2011  TSO Table IV
20-11                   10-13-2011  TSO Table IV
16-11B                  11-3-2011   TSO Table V
22-11                   11-3-2011   TSO Table V
16-11                   11-10-2011  TSO Table IV
18-11                   11-10-2011  TSO Table IV
18-11B                  11-10-2011  TSO Table V
01-12                   2-9-2012    TSO Table V
02-12                   3-21-2012   TSO Table IV
03-12                   3-21-2012   TSO Table IV
05-12                   3-21-2012   TSO Table IV
08-12                   5-16-2012   TSO Table V
07-12                   5-18-2012   TSO Table V
09-12                   6-14-2012   TSO Table IV
10-12                   8-9-2012    TSO Table IV
15-12                   9-13-2012   TSO Table IV
17-12                   10-11-2012  TSO Table IX
19-12                   10-11-2012  TSO Table IV
20-12                   11-1-2012   TSO Table V
21-12                   11-8-2012   TSO Table IV
18-12                   11-14-2012  TSO Table V
16-13                   1-9-2013    TSO Table V
01-13                   1-10-2013   TSO Table IV
02-13                   5-9-2013    TSO Table IV
05-13                   7-2-2013    TSO Table IV
04-13                   7-3-2013    TSO Table IV
07-13                   9-12-2013   TSO Table V
08-13                   9-12-2013   TSO Table IV
10-13                   9-26-2013   TSO Table IV
11-13                   9-26-2013   TSO Table IV
12-13                   10-10-2013  TSO Table V
13-13                   10-10-2013  TSO Table IX
14-13                   10-10-2013  TSO Table V
15-13                   11-14-2013  TSO Table IV
17-13                   11-14-2013  TSO Table V
01-14                   1-9-2014    TSO Table V
02-14                   1-9-2014    TSO Table IX
04-14                   2-6-2014    TSO Table I
06-14                   3-13-2014   TSO Table V
07-14                   4-10-2014   TSO Table IX
10-14                   6-5-2014    TSO Table XI
11-14                   6-12-2014   TSO Table XIV
14-15                   6-12-2014   TSO Table V
14-16                   7-10-2014   TSO Table V
14-17                   7-10-2014   TSO Table V
14-20                   7-10-2014   TSO Table V
14-18                   - -2014     TSO Table V
14-19                   9-11-2014   TSO Table V
14-22                   - -2014     TSO Table V
14-23                   9-11-2014   TSO Table IV
14-25                   9-11-2014   TSO Table V
14-27                   9-30-2014   TSO Table IV
14-28                   10-9-2014   TSO Table V
14-30                   11-13-2014  TSO Table XII
14-31                   11-13-2014  TSO Table IV
01-08-15-A              1-8-2015    TSO Table V
02-12-15-A              2-12-2015   TSO Table IV
02-12-15-B              2-12-2015   TSO Table IV
02-12-15-C              2-12-2015   TSO Table V
03-12-15-A              3-12-2015   TSO Table V
03-12-15-B              3-12-2015   TSO Table V
03-12-15-C              3-12-2015   TSO Table V
04-09-15-C              4-9-2015    TSO Table I
05-14-15-A              5-14-2015   TSO Table IV
06-11-15-B              6-16-2015   TSO Table V
06-11-15-C              6-16-2015   TSO Table V
06-11-15-D              6-16-2015   TSO Table V
06-11-15-E              6-16-2015   TSO Table V
07-09-15-A              7-9-2015    TSO Table V
08-13-15-A              8-13-2015   TSO Table XIII
08-13-15-B              8-13-2015   TSO Table V
08-13-15-C              8-13-2015   TSO Table IV
08-13-15-D              8-13-2015   TSO Table IV
09-10-15-A              9-10-2015   TSO Table V
09-10-15-C              11-12-2015  TSO Table V
10-08-15-C              10-22-2015  TSO Table V
10-08-15-D              10-8-2015   TSO Table V
11-12-15-B              11-12-2015  TSO Table XIII
12-10-15-A              1-14-2016   152.007
01-14-16-B              1-14-2016   TSO Table I
01-14-16-C              1-14-2016   TSO Table V
01-14-16-D              1-14-2016   TSO Table V
01-29-16-A              1-20-2016   TSO Table V
02-11-16-A              2-11-2016   TSO Table V,
                                    XII
02-11-16-B              2-11-2016   TSO Table V
03-10-16-A              3-10-2016   TSO Table XI
03-10-16-C              3-10-2016   TSO Table VI
03-10-16-E              3-10-2016   TSO Table IV
04-14-16-A              4-14-2016   TSO Table IV
04-14-16-B              4-14-2016   TSO Table IV
04-14-16-C              4-14-2016   TSO Table IV
04-14-16-D              4-14-2016   TSO Table IV
05-19-16-A              5-19-2016   TSO Table IV
05-19-16-B              5-19-2016   TSO Table IV
05-19-16-C              5-19-2016   TSO Table IX
06-09-16-D              6-9-2016    TSO Table IV
07-14-16-A              7-14-2016   TSO Table V
07-14-16-B              7-14-2016   TSO Table V
07-14-16-C              7-14-2016   TSO Table V
07-14-16-E              7-14-2016   TSO Table VI
08-11-16-A              8-11-2016   TSO Table IV
09-08-16-B              9-8-2016    TSO Table V
09-08-16-C              10-20-2016  TSO Table V
10-20-16-A              10-20-2016  TSO Table IV
10-20-16-C              10-20-2016  TSO Table IV
12-08-16-B              12-8-2016   TSO Table IX
01-12-17-A              1-12-2017   TSO Table V
01-12-17-C              1-12-2017   TSO Table IX
01-12-17-E              1-12-2017   TSO Table V
02-09-17-A              2-9-2017    TSO Table V
02-09-17-B              2-9-2017    TSO Table V
02-09-17-C              2-9-2017    TSO Table XIII
02-09-17-D              2-9-2017    TSO Table IV
03-23-17-A              3-23-2017   TSO Table V
03-23-17-B              3-23-2017   TSO Table IV
04-13-17-B              4-13-2017   TSO Table IV
05-11-17-B              5-11-2017   TSO Table IV
05-11-17-D              - -         TSO Table IV
05-11-17-E              5-11-2017   TSO Table IV
06-08-17-A              6-18-2017   TSO Table IX
06-08-17-B              6-8-2017    TSO Table IV
06-08-17-C              6-8-2017    TSO Table IV
06-08-17-E              6-8-2017    TSO Table IV
06-20-17-A              6-20-2017   TSO Table II
07-13-17-A              7-13-2017   TSO Table IX
07-13-17-B              - -         TSO Table IV
07-13-17-C              7-13-2017   TSO Table X
08-10-17-A              8-10-2017   TSO Table V
08-10-17-B              8-10-2017   TSO Table IV
08-10-17-C              8-10-2017   TSO Table XIII
08-10-17-D              8-10-2017   TSO Table IX
09-14-17-B              9-14-2017   TSO Table V
09-14-17-D              9-14-2017   TSO Table XII
10-03-17-A              10-3-2017   TSO Table V
10-12-17-A              10-12-2017  TSO Table IX
11-09-17-A              11-9-2017   TSO Table V
12-08-16-A              1-12-2017   TSO Table XIII
12-14-17-A              12-14-2017  TSO Table V
12-14-17-B              12-14-2017  TSO Table IX
01-11-18-A              1-11-2018   TSO Table V
01-11-18-B              1-11-2018   TSO Table IV
01-11-18-C              1-11-2018   TSO Table IX
02-01-08-A              2-1-2018    TSO Table IX
02-08-18-C              2-8-2018    TSO Table VII
03-08-18-A              3-8-2018    TSO Table V
03-08-18-B              3-8-2018    TSO Table IV
03-08-18-D              3-8-2018    TSO Table IX
04-12-18-A              4-12-2018   TSO Table V
04-12-18-C              4-12-2018   TSO Table IV
05-15-18-A              5-15-2018   TSO Table IV
05-15-18-B              5-15-2018   TSO Table IV
05-15-18-C              5-15-2018   TSO Table IX
06-14-18-B              - -         TSO Table IV
06-14-18-C              6-14-2018   TSO Table IV
08-09-18-A              - -         TSO Table VII
09-13-18-B              9-13-2018   TSO Table IV
09-13-18-E              9-13-2018   TSO Table IV
10-4-18-A               10-11-2018  TSO Table XI
10-11-18-B              10-11-2018  TSO Table X
10-18-18-A              10-18-2018  TSO Table XI
12-13-18-C              12-13-2018  TSO Table IX
01-10-19-A              1-10-2019   TSO Table IV
02-14-19-A              2-14-2019   TSO Table I
03-14-19-A              3-14-2019   TSO Table V
03-14-19-B              3-14-2019   TSO Table IX
03-14-19-C              3-14-2019   TSO Table V
03-14-19-F              3-14-2019   TSO Table IV
03-14-19-G              3-14-2019   TSO Table IV
03-14-19-H              3-14-2019   TSO Table IV
03-14-19-I              3-14-2019   TSO Table IV
04-11-19-A              6-13-2019   TSO Table V
04-11-19-B              4-11-2019   TSO Table IV
05-09-19-A              5-9-2019    TSO Table IV
05-09-19-C              5-9-2019    TSO Table IV
06-13-19-B              7-11-2019   TSO Table IV
07-11-19-A              7-11-2019   TSO Table IV
08-08-19-B              8-8-2019    TSO Table IV
08-08-19-C              8-8-2019    TSO Table XIV
09-12-19-A              9-12-2019   TSO Table XIII
09-12-19-B              9-12-2019   TSO Table IV
9-12-19-C               9-12-2019   TSO Table I
09-12-19-D              9-12-2019   TSO Table XIII
10-10-19-A              10-10-2019  TSO Table IV
10-10-19-B              10-10-2019  TSO Table XI
11-14-19-A              11-14-2019  TSO Table V
12-12-19-A              12-12-2019  TSO Table IV
12-12-19-B              - -         TSO Table IV
02-13-20-A              3-12-20     TSO Table XII
02-13-20-E              2-13-2020   TSO Table IV
03-30-20-C              3-30-2020   TSO Table IV
05-14-20-C              5-14-2020   TSO Table IV
06-11-20-A              6-11-2020   TSO Table IV
07-09-20-B              7-9-2020    TSO Table IX
08-13-20-A              8-13-2020   TSO Table IV
08-13-20-B              8-13-2020   TSO Table IV
08-13-20-C              8-13-2020   TSO Table I
09-10-20-B              9-10-2020   TSO Table I
10-08-20-A              10-8-2020   TSO Table IV
10-27-20-A              10-27-2020  TSO Table IV
11-12-20-A              11-12-2020  TSO Table IV
02-11-21-A              2-11-2021   TSO Table V
02-11-21-B              2-11-2021   TSO Table XIV
03-11-21-A              3-11-2021   TSO Table IV
03-11-21-C              3-11-2021   TSO Table V
04-08-21-B              4-8-2021    TSO Table XII
04-08-21-F              4-8-2021    TSO Table IV
05-13-21-A              5-13-2021   TSO Table XII
05-13-21-B              5-13-2021   TSO Table IV
05-13-21-E, Series 2021 5-13-2021   TSO Table VII
06-10-21-A              6-10-2021   TSO Table IV
07-08-21-A              7-8-2021    TSO Table V
08-12-21-A              8-12-2021   TSO Table IV
09-09-21-B              9-9-2021    TSO Table IV
10-14-21-A              10-14-2021  TSO Table V
10-14-21-B              10-14-2021  TSO Table IV
10-14-21-E              10-14-2021  TSO Table IV
12-09-21-B              12-9-2021   TSO Table IV
12-09-21-E              12-9-2021   TSO Table I
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                Date Passed Code Section
3, Series 1979          8-22-1979   31.04
5, Series 1979          8-22-1979   31.04
9, Series 1979          12-20-1979  TSO Table II
11, Series 1979         1-17-1980   TSO Table II
12, Series 1979         1-17-1980   TSO Table II
11, Series 1980         2-21-1980   TSO Table II
12, Series 1980         2-21-1980   TSO Table II
14, Series 1980         4-17-1980   TSO Table II
15, Series 1980         6-19-1980   TSO Table II
16, Series 1980         6-19-1980   TSO Table II
17, Series 1980         8-21-1980   TSO Table II
21, Series 1980         12-18-1980  36.01
5, Series 1981          - -1981     TSO Table VII
20, Series 1980         2-5-1981    TSO Table II
1, Series 1981          2-7-1981    TSO Table II
2, Series 1981          4-16-1981   TSO Table II
3, Series 1981          4-16-1981   TSO Table II
4, Series 1981          4-16-1981   TSO Table II
6, Series 1981          5-21-1981   31.21;
                                    32.01
8, Series 1981          6-30-1981   TSO Table VII
9, Series 1981          6-30-1981   34.06
7, Series 1981          7-16-1981   TSO Table II
11, Series 1981         8-21-1981   36.01
12, Series 1981         9-8-1981    36.01
13, Series 1981         9-17-1981   TSO Table II
14, Series 1981         9-17-1981   TSO Table VII
1, Series 1982          1-21-1982   TSO Table II
                                    10.02;
2, Series 1982          1-22-1982   32.16;
                                    32.19
3, Series 1982          2-4-1982    31.40
4, Series 1982          7-1-1982    153.01
9, Series 1982          11-4-1982   153.01
10, Series 1982         11-11-1982  TSO Table II
13, Series 1982         11-22-1982  TSO Table XII
1, Series 1983          3-3-1983    TSO Table II
2, Series 1983          4-7-1983    153.01
3, Series 1983          4-7-1983    153.01
4, Series 1983          4-7-1983    TSO Table II
                                    91.105;
8, Series 1983          8-4-1983    91.106;
                                    91.999
9, Series 1983          8-4-1983    TSO Table II
10, Series 1983         9-8-1983    TSO Table XII
12, Series 1983         10-6-1983   TSO Table XII
13, Series 1983         11-3-1983   TSO Table XII
14, Series 1983         12-1-1983   36.01
15, Series 1983         12-1-1983   153.01
1, Series 1984          2- -1984    153.01
7, Series 1984          4-10-1984   TSO Table II
4, Series 1984          5- -1984    151.01
                                    91.087 
5, Series 1984          5- -1984    91.089;
                                    91.999
3, Series 1984          5-3-1984    153.01
8, Series 1984          7-5-1984    TSO Table XII
9, Series 1984          8-2-1984    TSO Table XII
11, Series 1984         9-6-1984    31.36;
                                    31.37
13, Series 1984         9-6-1984    TSO Table VII
14, Series 1984         9-17-1984   32.16
16, Series 1984         9-17-1984   TSO Table VI
17, Series 1984         10-4-1984   TSO Table II
19, Series 1984         10-25-1984  TSO Table XII
20, Series 1984         11-15-1984  TSO Table XII
22, Series 1984         12-6-1984   TSO Table X
                                    33.001—
21, Series 1984         1-3-1985    33.009;
                                    33.999
23, Series 1984         1-3-1985    TSO Table XII
1, Series 1985          4-4-1985    TSO Table II
5, Series 1985          8-1-1985    TSO Table XII
6, Series 1985          8-1-1985    71.05
11, Series 1985         1-2-1986    TSO Table V
1, Series 1986          4-3-1986    TSO Table XII
2, Series 1986          5-1-1986    153.01
3, Series 1986          5-1-1986    TSO Table XIII
4a, Series 1986         7-3-1986    TSO Table XII
5, Series 1986          7-3-1986    TSO Table XII
7, Series 1986          8-7-1986    36.01
10, Series 1986         9-4-1986    36.01
11, Series 1986         9-17-1986   TSO Table XII
8, Series 1986          11-13-1986  TSO Table XII
9, Series 1986          11-13-1986  TSO Table XII
12, Series 1986         11-13-1986  TSO Table XII
13, Series 1986         12-4-1986   TSO Table XII
2, Series 1987          5-7-1987    TSO Table XII
1, Series 1987          6-4-1987    TSO Table XIII
18, Series 1984         6-4-1987    TSO Table XIII
4, Series 1987          8-6-1987    36.01
                                    94.15—
5, Series 1987          9-3-1987    94.27;
                                    94.99
6, Series 1987          12-3-1987   TSO Table V
7, Series 1987          12-28-1987  TSO Table XIII
8, Series 1987          12-28-1987  TSO Table XIII
10, Series 1987         12-28-1987  TSO Table XII
88-06                   - -1988     TSO Table XII
1, Series 1988          - -1988     153.01
2, Series 1988          4-7-1988    TSO Table XII
4, Series 1988          5-5-1988    TSO Table XII
5, Series 1988          5-5-1988    TSO Table XII
7, Series 1988          6-2-1988    153.01
8, Series 1988          6-2-1988    153.01
10, Series 1988         6-2-1988    36.01
88-11                   8-4-1988    153.01
88-12                   8-4-1988    TSO Table XII
88-14                   8-4-1988    153.01
88-13                   9-1-1988    TSO Table XII
88-16                   12-1-1988   TSO Table XII
89-01                   5-4-1989    TSO Table XII
89-05                   5-22-1989   31.39
89-06                   5-22-1989   31.39
89-03                   7-6-1989    36.01
89-12                   11-30-1989  TSO Table XII
90-02                   1-4-1990    31.37
90-03                   3-1-1990    TSO Table XII
90-04                   4-5-1990    33.040—
                                    33.045
90-07                   6-14-1990   TSO Table XII
90-08                   6-14-1990   TSO Table XII
90-09                   6-14-1990   36.01
                                    152.090;
90-12                   8-2-1990    152.091;
                                    152.999
90-13                   10-4-1990   TSO Table XII
90-15                   10-18-1990  TSO Table XII
91-01                   3-14-1991   TSO Table XII
91-04                   5-16-1991   TSO Table XII
91-02                   6-6-1991    32.16
91-03                   6-6-1991    11.01
91-06                   6-6-1991    36.01
91-07                   8-1-1991    TSO Table XII
91-08                   8-19-1991   TSO Table XII
91-09                   10-22-1991  TSO Table XII
91-10                   12-5-1991   TSO Table XII
92-02                   6-4-1992    36.01
92-04                   8-6-1992    TSO Table XII
93-02                   6-3-1993    36.01
93-05                   6-3-1993    TSO Table I
94-01                   5-5-1994    10.99
94-02                   6-2-1994    36.01
94-04                   6-2-1994    TSO Table XII
94-05                   8-4-1994    TSO Table XII
                                    33.001—
94-06                   9-1-1994    33.009;
                                    33.999
94-07                   10-5-1994   TSO Table XII
94-09                   12-5-1994   TSO Table II
                                    38.001—
                                    38.004;
                                    38.015 
                                    38.022;
94-08                   12-28-1994  38.035 
                                    38.040;
                                    38.055;
                                    38.070—
                                    38.080;
                                    38.999
95-01                   6-1-1995    36.01
95-04                   11-14-1995  TSO Table XII
95-05                   11-14-1995  TSO Table XII
96-01                   2-1-1996    TSO Table XII
96-02                   2-1-1996    TSO Table XII
96-03                   2-1-1996    TSO Table VII
96-05                   3-21-1996   TSO Table XII
96-06                   5-9-1996    TSO Table XII
96-07                   6-6-1996    36.01
96-09                   7-11-1996   TSO Table XV
97-03                   4-10-1997   TSO Table XII
97-01                   6-5-1997    TSO Table II
97-04                   6-5-1997    151.01
97-05                   6-5-1997    36.01
97-08                   7-3-1997    153.01
97-09                   8-7-1997    TSO Table XII
97-10                   9-4-1997    TSO Table XII
97-11                   9-11-1997   TSO Table XII
97-12                   9-11-1997   TSO Table II
97-15                   11-6-1997   153.01
97-16                   11-6-1997   153.01
97-14                   11-9-1997   TSO Table XII
97-13                   1-8-1998    153.01
98-02                   6-4-1998    36.01
98-05                   8-6-1998    TSO Table XV
98-06                   8-6-1998    TSO Table XII
98-08                   8-6-1998    TSO Table XII
98-07                   8-26-1998   TSO Table XII
99-01                   1-7-1999    TSO Table XV
99-03                   6-3-1999    TSO Table XII
99-04                   6-3-1999    36.01
99-06                   6-3-1999    TSO Table V
99-07                   7-1-1999    TSO Table XII
99-09                   9-16-1999   TSO Table XII
99-08                   10-7-1999   TSO Table XII
99-10                   10-7-1999   TSO Table XII
99-11                   10-7-1999   TSO Table XII
99-12                   12-2-1999   TSO Table XII
99-13                   1-6-2000    TSO Table XII
00-01                   3-2-2000    151.01
00-02                   4-13-2000   TSO Table XII
00-03                   6-1-2000    36.01
00-06                   11-20-2000  TSO Table XII
01-01                   1-4-2001    TSO Table XII
01-02                   2-1-2001    TSO Table XII
                                    33.020—
01-03                   3-1-2001    33.027;
                                    33.999
01-04                   3-1-2001    TSO Table XII
01-05                   3-6-2001    TSO Table XII
                                    91.070—
01-06                   5-3-2001    91.072;
                                    91.999
01-07                   6-7-2001    36.01
01-09                   9-6-2001    TSO Table XII
01-10                   12-10-2001  TSO Table XII
02-01                   5-2-2002    TSO Table XII
02-02                   6-6-2002    36.01
03-01                   - -2003     153.01
03-02                   - -2003     153.01
03-03                   6-5-2003    36.01
03-05                   11-6-2003   TSO Table XII
                                    50.01—
04-03                   2-5-2004    50.03;
                                    50.99
04-04                   6-3-2004    153.01
04-06                   6-3-2004    36.01
05-03                   6-2-2005    36.01
05-04                   7-7-2005    TSO Table XII
06-01                   1-5-2006    31.38
06-02                   1-5-2006    TSO Table XII
06-03                   3-2-2006    TSO Table XII
06-04                   3-2-2006    32.16
06-05                   3-2-2006    153.01
06-07                   4-6-2006    TSO Table XII
                                    152.001—
                                    152.006;
                                    152.020—
                                    152.026;
06-08                   4-6-2006    152.040—
                                    152.046;
                                    152.060;
                                    152.061;
                                    152.075;
                                    152.999
06-10                   6- -2006    36.01
06-09                   6-1-2006    TSO Table XII
                                    152.090;
06-12                   8-3-2006    152.091;
                                    152.999
06-13                   9-7-2006    TSO Table XII
06-15                   9-12-2006   152.090
06-14                   10-4-2006   TSO Table XII
07-02                   6-7-2007    36.01
07-06                   12-6-2007   TSO Table XII
08-05                   - -2008     96.01
08-01                   2-7-2008    32.16
08-02                   6-12-2008   36.01
08-06                   6-12-2008   153.01
08-07                   9-11-2008   TSO Table XIII
08-10                   9-11-2008   TSO Table XI
08-11                   9-11-2008   TSO Table XI
08-12                   9-11-2008   TSO Table XII
08-13                   9-11-2008   TSO Table XII
08-14                   9-11-2008   TSO Table XII
08-15                   1-8-2009    153.01
09-01                   2-12-2009   TSO Table XII
09-02                   2-12-2009   TSO Table XII
09-03                   6-11-2009   36.01
09-05                   6-11-2009   153.01
09-07                   10-8-2009   153.01
09-09                   10-8-2009   91.055—
                                    91.059
-                       - -2010     150.04;
                                    150.99
10-03                   5-13-2010   TSO Table XII
10-04                   6-10-2010   36.01
10-07                   12-16-2010  TSO Table XII
11-01                   5-12-2011   34.40
11-02                   6-9-2011    36.01
                                    71.51—
                                    71.55,
04-11                   7-14-2011   71.58,
                                    71.59,
                                    71.61
11-05                   7-14-2011   92.01—
                                    92.05
11-06                   7-14-2011   36.06
                                    93.01—
07-11                   12-8-2011   93.06,
                                    93.99
12-01                   4-16-2012   TSO Table XII
12-05                   5-16-2012   TSO Table XIII
12-02                   6-14-2012   36.01
12-07                   1-10-2013   TSO Table XII
13-03                   5-9-2013    TSO Table XII
13-05                   6-13-2013   36.01
14-01                   2-13-2014   TSO Table VII
                                    TSO Table V;
14-02                   6-12-2014   IX;
                                    XII
14-03                   6-12-2014   36.01
14-5                    6-12-2014   36.01
14-7                    6-12-2014   72.25
14-8                    6-12-2014   91.087
14-11                   6-12-2014   153.01
14-12                   6-12-2014   153.01
14-13                   6-12-2014   153.01
14-14                   6-12-2014   31.41;
                                    31.42
                                    TSO Table V;
14-15                   8-14-2014   IX;
                                    XII;
                                    XIV
14-16                   8-21-2014   TSO Table II
                                    113.01—
                                    113.06;
08-13-15-A              9-10-2015   113.08 
                                    113.21;
                                    113.99
08-13-15-B              9-10-2015   39.01—
                                    39.12
11-12-15-A              11-18-2015  TSO XII
03-10-16-B              4-14-2016   32.16
04-14-16-A              6-9-2016    TSO Table V;
                                    XII
05-31-16-A              6-9-2016    36.01
07-14-16-B              8-11-2016   TSO Table VII
07-14-16-C              8-11-2016   TSO Table VII
09-08-16-A              10-20-2016  TSO Table V;
                                    XII
04-13-17-A              5-11-2017   153.01
05-18-17-A              6-8-2017    36.01
06-18-17-A              8-10-2017   33.003
07-13-17-A              8-10-2017   91.120—
                                    91.125
08-10-17-B              9-14-2017   TSO Table XII
12-14-17-A              12-20-2017  40.01—
                                    40.03
12-14-17-B              12-20-2017  34.60—
                                    34.70
                                    72.13;
03-08-18-D              4-12-2018   72.14;
                                    72.99
05-15-18-A              6-14-2018   36.01
06-14-18-A              8-9-2018    TSO Table XII
01-10-19-A              2-14-2019   31.35;
                                    31.43
                                    112.01—
02-14-19-A              3-14-2019   112.08;
                                    112.99
03-14-19-B              4-11-2019   152.080
05-30-19-B              6-13-2019   36.01
06-13-19-A              7-11-2019   TSO Table XIII
08-08-19-A              - -         153.01
08-08-19-B              9-12-2019   34.60—
                                    34.69
                                    97.01—
09-12-19-A              10-10-2019  97.07;
                                    97.99
12-13-18-A              1-10-2019   TSO Table XII
05-14-20-A              6-11-2020   36.01
                                    92.01;
06-11-20-A              7-9-2020    92.03—
                                    92.05
07-09-20-A              8-13-2020   91.001—
                                    91.004
                                    98.01—
07-09-20-B              8-13-2020   98.03;
                                    98.99
01-26-21-A, Series 2021 2-11-2021   153.01
                                    35.01;
08-12-21-A              9-9-2021    35.15;
                                    35.17;
                                    35.19
08-12-21-B              11-11-2021  153.01
05-12-22-B              6-9-2022    113.02
05-12-22-C              6-9-2022    92.02;
                                    92.99
07-14-22-A              8-11-2022   113.07
02-09-2023-B            3-9-2023    31.55
                                    37.001—
                                    37.007;
                                    37.020—
                                    37.046;
                                    37.060—
                                    37.094;
5-11-2023-A             6-8-2023    37.105—
                                    37.113;
                                    37.125—
                                    37.136;
                                    37.150—
                                    37.162;
                                    37.175—
                                    37.188
05-25-2023-A            6-8-2023    36.01
07-13-2023-A            8-10-2023   37.150—
                                    37.155
                                    114.01—
                                    114.06;
07-13-2023-B            8-10-2023   114.20—
                                    114.34;
                                    114.99
07-13-2023-C            8-10-2023   152.006
10-12-2023-A            11-9-2023   TSO Table XII
                                    114.20;
10-12-2023-B            10-12-2023  114.21;
                                    114.23
11-09-2023-B            12-14-2023  153.01
                                   
 
