CITY OF MIDWAY, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-15 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-003, passed 6-24-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2006-009
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF MIDWAY,
KENTUCKY, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE
CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Midway are incomplete
and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and indexing
thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky empower
and authorize the Legislative Body of this City to revise, amend, restate,
codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate the
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the City of Midway has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the City of Midway
that:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Midway as herein revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Midway."
   Section 2. The Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.   Body of Government
   31.   City Officials
   32.   City Organizations
   33.   Public Safety
   34.   Finances and Revenue; Licenses
   35.   City Policies
   36.   Ethical Code
   37.   Personnel
   38.   Public Records
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50.   General Regulations
   51.   Garbage Regulations
   52.   Water Regulations
   53.   Sewer Regulations
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   70.   General Regulations
   71.   Traffic Regulations
   72.   Parking Regulations
   73.   Traffic Schedules
   74.   Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.   Animals
   91.   Streets and Sidewalks
   92.   Health and Sanitation; Environment; Nuisances
   93.   Cemeteries
   94.   Fair Housing and Discrimination
   95.   Trees, Shrubs and Bushes
   96.   Parks and Recreation
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110.   General Licensing
   111.   Franchises
   112.   Adult Entertainment Activities and Establishments
   113.   Peddlers, Itinerant Merchants and Solicitors
   114.   Alcoholic Beverages
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   130.   General Offenses
   131.   Hazardous Materials
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150.   General Provisions
   151.   Zoning Code
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      I.    Agreements and Contracts
      II.   Bonds
      III.   Dedications
      IV.   Annexations
      V.   Zoning Amendments
      VI.   Budget and Taxes
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1997 Code
Reference to Ordinances
INDEX
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of the Code, except
as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in the Code; provided
that such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or
any right established prior to the effective date of the Code, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the
issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of
real or personal property, granting or accepting easements or plats, accepting
dedications of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of
streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. The Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Legislative Body and the Clerk of the City of Midway is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code in the Office of the
City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code shall be in full force and effect from and after its date
of passage, approval and publication as required by law. The Code shall be
presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained, and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved, and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
         Passed on First Reading      December 4, 2006
         Adopted on Second Reading      December 4, 2006
         Date of Publication         December 14, 2006
         Recorded by Clerk         December 14, 2006
Rebecca Moore /s/
Rebecca Moore, Mayor
ATTEST:
Marlene Riddle /s/
Marlene Riddle, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2007-11
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MIDWAY, KENTUCKY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Midway,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality;
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Midway:
   Section 1. That the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Midway, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on this 5th day of November, 2007.
         Passed on First Reading      October 15, 2007
         Adopted on Second Reading      November 5, 2007
         Signed by Mayor         November 5, 2007
Tom Bozarth /s/
Tom Bozarth, Mayor
ATTEST:
Phyllis Hudson /s/
Phyllis Hudson, City Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 2008-15
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MIDWAY, KENTUCKY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the second supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Midway, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality;
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Midway:
   Section 1. That the second supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Midway, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on this 1st day of December, 2008.
         Passed on First Reading      November 17, 2008
         Adopted on Second Reading      December 1, 2008
         Signed by Mayor
   Tom Bozarth /s/
   Tom Bozarth, Mayor
ATTEST:
Phyllis Hudson /s/
Phyllis Hudson, City Clerk/Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-15
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MIDWAY, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the third supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Midway,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Midway:
   Section 1. That the third supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Midway, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on this 3rd day of August, 2009
Passed on First Reading July 6, 2009
Adopted on Second Reading August 3, 2009
                           Tom Bozarth /s/
                           Tom Bozarth, Mayor
ATTEST:
Phyllis Hudson /s/
Phyllis Hudson, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2010-10
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MIDWAY, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the third supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Midway,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Midway:
   Section 1. That the fourth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Midway, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on this 18th day of October, 2010
Passed on First Reading October 4, 2010
Adopted on Second Reading October 18, 2010
                           Tom Bozarth /s/
                           Tom Bozarth, Mayor
ATTEST:
Phyllis Hudson /s/
Phyllis Hudson, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2012-13
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MIDWAY, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the sixth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Midway,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Midway:
   Section 1. That the sixth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Midway, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on this 19th day of November, 2012
Passed on First Reading November 5, 2012
Adopted on Second Reading November 19, 2012
                           Tom Bozarth /s/
                           Tom Bozarth,
Mayor                                           
ATTEST:
Phyllis Hudson /s/
Phyllis Hudson, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2013-010
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF MIDWAY, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the fifth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Midway,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Midway:
   Section 1. That the fifth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Midway, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on this 3rd day of September, 2013
Passed on First Reading August 19, 2013
Adopted on Second Reading September 3, 2013
Signed by Mayor Tom Bozarth /s/
Recorded by Clerk                           
                           CITY OF MIDWAY
                           Tom Bozarth /s/
                           MAYOR
ATTEST:
Phyllis Hudson /s/
CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 2015-08
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF MIDWAY, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the ninth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Midway,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Midway:
   Section 1. That the ninth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Midway, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on this 4th day of January, 2016
Passed on First Reading December 7, 2015
Adopted on Second Reading January 4, 2016
                           Grayson Vandergrift /s/
                           Grayson Vandergrift, Mayor
ATTEST:
Phyllis Hudson /s/
Phyllis Hudson, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2017-08
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCE OF
THE CITY OF MIDWAY, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the eleventh supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Midway, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Midway:
   Section 1.   That the eleventh supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Midway, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on First Reading
Adopted on Second Reading
 
                           Grayson Vandegrift /s/
                           Grayson Vandegrift, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
Phyllis Hudson /s/
Phyllis Hudson, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-008
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MIDWAY, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the twelfth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Midway, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Midway:
   Section 1.   That the twelfth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Midway, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed on First Reading October 1, 2018
Adopted on Second Reading October 15, 2018
               Grayson Vandegrift /s/
               Grayson Vandegrift,
Mayor                                           
ATTEST:
Phyllis Hudson /s/
Phyllis Hudson, City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
Midway Code, for which designation "codified ordinances" or "code" may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the "traffic code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as "§
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The Automated Vehicle Information System established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect tilting and registration information on
vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   BUSINESS TRUST. Includes, except when utilized in KRS Chapter 386, a
"statutory trust" as organized under KRS Chapter 386A.
(KRS 446.010(6))
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Midway irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Woodford County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
business trust, statutory trust, or limited liability company, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council Member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes,
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine, or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Midway, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes “affirmed” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to 1 person
or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be applied
to 1 person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall
be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not 1 of the
days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than
7 days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded in
the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place or the act shall be done on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to 3 or more public officers or other persons
shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the officers or
other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by ordinances
passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any chapter, section or
division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded from this code by
omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as printed or omitted
shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances until Council shall
adopt a new code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for- word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation, and the offender shall be fined not less than $25.00 nor more than
$250.00 for each offense, provided, however, the City Council may specify that
the fine for certain violations as designated by the City Council shall be
reduced by $5.00 if paid to the City Clerk/Treasurer by the end of the next
business day after the date of violation.
(Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 3-19-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
   Maximum fine for violations, see KRS 534.040(2)(c)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   BODY OF GOVERNMENT
         
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
         
32.   CITY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY
         
34.   FINANCES AND REVENUE; LICENSES
         
35.   CITY POLICIES
         
36.   ETHICAL CODE
         
37.   PERSONNEL
         
38.   PUBLIC RECORDS
CHAPTER 30: BODY OF GOVERNMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   City Hall designated
Mayor-Council Plan
   
30.15   Form of government
   
30.16   Governing officers
City Council
   
30.30   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
30.31   Vacancies
   
30.32   Powers and duties
   
30.33   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
30.34   Meetings
   
30.35   Rules; quorum
   
30.36   Appointments
Ordinances
   
30.45   One subject; title
   
30.46   Introduction; enacting clause
   
30.47   Form of amendment
   
30.48   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
30.49   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
30.50   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
30.51   Official city records
   
30.52   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
30.53   Publication requirements
   
30.54   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
30.55   Periodic review required
   
30.56   Municipal orders
   
30.57   Proved by City Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
   
30.58   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 CITY HALL DESIGNATED.
   The location of Midway City Hall is hereby established as 101 East Main
Street, Midway, Kentucky (the Rau Building). All references to the City Hall
Building shall be deemed to refer to the foregoing address.
(Ord. 2004-014, passed 11-1-2004)
MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
§ 30.15 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the "Mayor-
Council Plan."
(KRS 83A.130(1))
§ 30.16 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by other officers and employees as are provided for by statute or
city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than 6 nor more than 12
members as prescribed by ordinance. An ordinance amending the number of Council
Members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the County Clerk of any county or counties
in which the city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the City
Council will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of Council Members
becomes effective January 1 of the year following the election of the number of
legislative body members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.30 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for council shall
be a resident of the city for not less than 1 year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for 2 years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 30.31 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If 1 or more vacancies on the Council occur in a way that 1
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies 1 at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If
vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall
appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a
quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official’s
electronic mail address and includes also the official’s handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular meeting of the City
Council.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on the
Council is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for non-partisan city office, see KRS Chapter 83A
§ 30.32 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any department,
office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
§ 30.33 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. In the event the
Mayor is absent from a meeting and is unable to preside at that meeting, the
following procedure shall be used to select a member of Council to preside at
that meeting. The first order of business shall be a motion made and seconded
by members of the Council to appoint a member of the Council to preside at the
meeting in the absence of the Mayor. A vote shall then be taken to approve the
motion, and the motion shall be approved by a majority of the members of the
Council present and voting. The Councilmember elected to presided shall do so
for that meeting only, and may execute any ordinances, orders, resolutions, or
other documents approved and adopted at that meeting.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
§ 30.34 MEETINGS.
   On the first and third Monday of each month at 5:30 p.m. or at such an hour
as the Council may designate; provided, however, if the first or third Monday
of the month falls on a state or federal holiday, the regular meetings of the
Council shall take place on the next day which is not a state or federal
holiday. The Council shall conduct its regular monthly meeting in the City Hall
Building.
(1997 Code, § 120.1) (Am. Ord. 93-014, passed 6-7-1993; Am. Ord. 96-08, passed
11-18-1996; Am. Ord. 2003-03, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 30.35 RULES; QUORUM.
   The conduct of each meeting shall conform with the standard parliamentarian
rules as set out and defined in Robert's Rules of Order. Unless otherwise
provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes a quorum and a vote
of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060 (6)) (1997 Code, § 120.2)
§ 30.36 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Clerk/Treasurer, before entering upon the discharge of his or her
duties, shall execute to the city a bond with good security in penal sums as
set and adopted by a resolution of each Council at its first meeting.
(1997 Code, § 120.3)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.45 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060 (1))
§ 30.46 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled "Be it ordained by the City of Midway."
(KRS 83A.060 (2))
§ 30.47 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060 (3))
§ 30.48 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of 2/3 of the membership,
the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and publication in
order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and describing the
emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
30.53 shall be complied with within 10 days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060 (4), (7))
§ 30.49 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within 10 days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within 10 days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130 (6))
§ 30.50 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060 (5))
§ 30.51 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided for the maintenance and safekeeping of the
permanent records of the city. The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding
officer shall sign the official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 30.52 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 30.53 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
30.48(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
legislative body. If the legislative body elects to publish an ordinance in
summary, the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to
practice law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 30.54 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 30.55 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every 5 years all ordinances in this code of ordinances
shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one another and shall
be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid
provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 30.56 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 30.57 PROVED BY CITY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 30.58 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and KY. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01    Oath; certification
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
   
31.04   Bond
Elected Officials
   
31.10   Election procedure
   
31.11   Mayor
   
31.12   Councilmembers
Non-Elected Officials
   
31.15   Clerk/Treasurer and Assistant Clerk
   
31.16   City Attorney
   
31.17   Chief of Police
   
31.18   City Manager
   
31.19   Public Works Director
   
31.20   City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
Training Incentive Program
   
31.30   Definitions
   
31.31   Adoption of a City Officials Training Program; application
   
31.32   Incentive payment amount; required training participation
   
31.33   Policy regarding payment or reimbursement for training courses
   
31.34   Administration of City Officials Training Program
   
31.35   Status of incentive payments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: "I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of                    , according to law; and I do further
solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present
Constitution, I being a citizen of this United  States, have not fought a duel
with deadly weapons within this State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or
accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a
second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus
offending, so help me God", as established by section 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
   (B)   Certification. Certification of the person administering the oath of
office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was
administered and the date of its administration. The certification shall be
filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Where the Kentucky Revised Statutes do not pre-empt, salaries of all
city officials shall be set and designated at the first meeting of each Council
and shall remain in effect until otherwise amended by the Council or by
statute.
      (1)   Salary of City Council. Effective January 1, 2019, the salaries of
the members of the Midway City Council shall be $200 per month.
      (2)   Salary of Mayor. Effective January 1, 2019, the salary of the Mayor
shall be $1,400 per month.
(1997 Code, § 120.5) (Ord. 95-01, passed 2-19-1996; Am. Ord. 2005-15, passed
12-5-2005; Am. Ord. 2017-05, passed 9-18-2017)
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
Editor's note:
   Compensation ordinances are not set forth in this code but are rather kept
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Non-elected officers. Non-elected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance. Upon
removal of a non-elected officer at will, the Mayor shall give the officer a
written statement setting forth the reason or reasons for the removal. However,
this requirement shall not be construed as limiting in any way the at-will
dismissal power of the Mayor.
(KRS 83A.080(3))
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   (A)   Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS 62.060.
   (B)   All officers and employees of the city who handle public funds in the
execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the city for
the faithful and honest performance of their duties, and as security for all
money coming into the officer's hands or under the officer's control. The
amount of the bond shall be established based on the amount of public funds the
officer handles at any point in time during the fiscal year and may be
satisfied by a blanket or umbrella bond covering all or a group of city
officers and employees. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond shall be deemed to have
complied with division (A) of this section.
(KRS 65.067)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.10 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted to the city by KRS 83A.050(1), the
City Council does hereby adopt the non-partisan city election laws as provided
in KRS Chapter 83A and Chapters 116 to 121. This procedure shall become
effective on January 1, 1988, and shall apply to all city elections from
January 1, 1988 and thereafter.
      (1)   The non-partisan primary election for the nomination of candidates
to elected city offices is hereby eliminated as authorized by KRS 83A.045(2)
(b).
      (2)   All candidates for elected city offices shall file their nomination
papers with the County Clerk no later than the second Tuesday in August before
the day fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding the regular election.
      (3)   All nomination papers shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m.
prevailing local time when filed on the last day on which such papers are
permitted to be filed.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no change
shall be made earlier than 5 years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Am. Ord. 2016-001, passed 3-21-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080 (3), (4)
   Election to fill unexpired term of city office, see KRS 83A.165
§ 31.11 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than 1 year prior to his or her election. His
or her term of office begins on January 1 following his or her election and
shall be for 4 years and until his or her successor qualifies. If a person is
selected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and serves less than 4
calendar years, then that period of service shall not be considered for
purposes of re-election to a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy.  
      (1)   (a)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(a))
         (b)   If for any reason, any vacancy in the office of Mayor is not
filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill the
vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (3)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (4)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official’s electronic mail address
and includes also the official’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular meeting of the City Council.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (5)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (6)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130 to 83A.150.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of the action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to
attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the
provisions of division (D) of this section shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.12 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 30.
NON-ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 CLERK/TREASURER AND ASSISTANT CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer and
Assistant Clerk.
   (B)   The office of City Clerk/Treasurer and Assistant Clerk may, by
ordinance, be combined with any other nonelected city office by inclusion of
the title and duties of the office.
   (C)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk/Treasurer and Assistant
Clerk shall include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the official custodian or
custodian in accordance with KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail or electronically
submit to the Department for Local Government a list containing current city
information including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   The correct name, telephone number, and electronic mail address
of the Mayor, Councilmembers, and the correct name, telephone number, and
electronic mail address for the city’s appointed officials or employees who are
serving in the following roles or substantially similar roles as of January 1
of each year:
            1.   City Clerk/Treasurer or Chief Financial Officer;
            2.   Assistant Clerk;
            3.   City Manager or Administrator;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Human Resources Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Public Works Director;
            8.   Fire Chief;
            9.   Assistant Fire Chief;
            10.   Risk Manager;
            11.   Information Technology Manager;
            12.   Public Relations or Communications Officer; and
            13.   Planning and Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person who may be reached during normal business
hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (5)   Performance of all other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk/Treasurer and Assistant Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (D)   Compensation shall be in the amount as established by the City Council
from time to time as set forth in §
31.02.
   (E)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk /Treasurer and
Assistant Clerk unless the person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided bond, if
required, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and
conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 31.16 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall have the duty to advise city officials on all legal
matters pertaining to the business of the city and to discharge such other
duties as are ordinarily performed by the City Attorney of a city of the fifth
class. When required to engage in litigation, or employed to other work not
usually performed by a City Attorney, he or she shall be paid such additional
compensation as the Council in its discretion may fix.
(1997 Code, § 251.0)
§ 31.17 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   There is hereby created the non-elected office of Chief of Police.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this office are hereby established as those
contained or set forth in the Kentucky Revised Statutes and those included in
the class specifications of the city's classification plan, and related duties
as requested or assigned.
   (C)   The oath of office to be executed by the Police Chief shall be that as
set forth in KRS Ch. 228.
   (D)   Compensation for this office shall be included in the city's
compensation plan.
§ 31.18 CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall generally supervise and control all departments
subordinated to the Council and shall make a monthly report to the Council when
called upon by the Mayor. The City Manager is subject to call at all times for
all matters reasonably related to those departments. The City Manager shall
have the authority to oversee municipal services and to use reasonable means to
prevent and correct any kind of abuse either through non-feasance, misfeasance
or malfeasance to those services. All such acts be subject to ratification by
the City Council at its next preceding meeting.
(1997 Code, § 211.0)
§ 31.19 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   The Public Works Director shall have the duties that are reasonably expected
and necessary for an effective and expedient operation of the City Water Works
and Sewer Systems. The Director is subject to call at all times for matters
reasonably related to those systems.
(1997 Code, § 212.0)
§ 31.20 CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Alcoholic Beverage
Control Administrator.
   (B)   The duties of the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall
be assigned to the Mayor who shall have power to designate a city official to
assist or share in the responsibilities of the office.
   (C)   The City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator, before entering
upon the duties of this office, shall take the oath prescribed in section 228
of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall execute a bond
with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of not less than $1,000. The cost
of such bond shall be borne by the city.
   (D)   The duties of the City Alcoholic Beverage Administrator shall be the
same with respect to the city administering and enforcing alcoholic beverage
control licenses and regulations as are the functions of the State Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board with respect to said licenses and regulations, except
that no regulation adopted by the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator
may be less stringent than the state statutes relating to alcoholic beverage
control or than the regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
(Ord. 2008-16, passed 12-1-2008)
TRAINING INCENTIVE PROGRAM
§ 31.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center.
   EXCESS HOURS. Credit hours earned beyond 15 during a single calendar year.
   QUALIFYING COURSE. Any training, seminar, educational or learning event that
provides instruction or information that is relevant to the duties and
functions of city government and city officials.
   TRAINING UNIT. Fifteen clock hours of attendance or participation in
qualifying courses during a calendar year.
(Ord. 2011-003, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 31.31 ADOPTION OF A CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM; APPLICATION.
   In accordance with House Bill 119 of the 2011 General Assembly, as codified
in KRS Chapter 64, the city hereby adopts and establishes a City Officials
Training Program to make available incentive payments as specified by this
subchapter to the elected city officials, including the Mayor, all members of
the City Council and to include the City Clerk and the Assistant City Clerk
created under KRS 83A.080 for obtaining education and training as required
under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-003, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 31.32 INCENTIVE PAYMENT AMOUNT; REQUIRED TRAINING PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Each city official eligible for participation in the City Officials
Training Program shall receive training incentive payments of $500.00 for
completion of each training unit during his or her continuous service as a city
official within the city. The city official shall only receive training
incentive payments for a maximum of 4 training units. The city official shall
not be awarded more than 1 training unit (15 hours) per calendar year.
 
Year 1 $500.00 per training unit
Year 2 $1,000.00 per training unit
Year 3 $1,500.00 per training unit
Year 4 $2,000.00 per training unit
 
   (B)   For each successive year beginning in year 5 and thereafter the
training incentive payment shall not exceed the maximum of $2,000.00 per
training unit provided that the officer continues to earn a training unit for
each subsequent calendar year, uninterrupted service and can carry over from 1
year the maximum of 10 hours; payments will require the city official to
present proof of completion within 60 days at the conclusion of the calendar
year subject to the constraints and appropriations established by the city's
annual budget.
   (C)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the officer from receiving any training
incentive payment for the calendar year and the city official shall lose any
previously accumulated training units earned during previous calendar years.
   (D)   Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall be
permitted to carry forward a maximum of 10 hours to apply to the earning of the
training unit in the following calendar year.
   (E)   Training incentive payments shall be made to a city official
presenting proof of completion of a training unit for a calendar year within 60
days of the conclusion of the calendar year.
(Ord. 2011-003, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 31.33 POLICY REGARDING PAYMENT OR REIMBURSEMENT FOR TRAINING COURSES.
   Subject to the constraints and the appropriations established by the city's
annual budget, the city shall consider paying the cost of attendance or
participation in advance of a city official's attendance or participation in
the qualifying course if proper application is made to the Mayor (or other
designated official responsible for budget administration). Alternatively, and
subject to the constraints and appropriations established by the city's annual
budget, the city shall consider reimbursing a city official for the cost of
attendance or participation in a qualifying course upon presentation of proof
to the Mayor (or other designated official responsible for budget
administration) that the official has received credit for the course.
(Ord. 2011-003, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 31.34 ADMINISTRATION OF CITY OFFICIALS TRAINING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The City Officials Training Program for the city shall be administered
by the Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center, which shall be
responsible for approving courses as qualifying under the terms of this
subchapter, shall maintain records of attendance and participation, and shall
notify the city when a city official earns a training unit and the applicable
training incentive multiplier applicable to each city official.
   (B)   The Administrator shall evaluate and approve courses as qualifying for
credit based on the relation of the course to the operation of city government.
In addition to other courses which may be approved as qualifying courses by the
Administrator, courses that provide instruction on the statutory duties of
cities and city officials, intergovernmental relationships, municipal finance
and budgeting, municipal taxation, ethics, open records, open meetings,
economic development, or municipal police powers shall be approved as
qualifying courses under this subchapter. The Administrator shall require the
submission of the course or conference agenda, curriculum, name of the
provider, and other course materials to determine whether a course should be
approved as a qualifying course.
   (C)   A city official shall submit proof of attendance or participation in a
qualifying course to the Administrator. A city official shall submit the course
name, date, location, name of the instructor or provider, and sufficient proof
of attendance or participation in the qualifying course before the
Administrator shall award credit. The Administrator shall not award credit to a
city official for attendance or participation in a qualifying course that is
not, in the Administrator's opinion, substantially different from another
course the city official attended or participated in during the same calendar
year.
   (D)   The Administrator shall maintain records that reflect each of the
courses and hours completed by the city official and shall provide it to each
city official upon request. The Administrator shall, within 30 days of the
close of the calendar year, provide written or electronic certification to each
participating city official of completed courses and hours, and shall, if
applicable, certify the completion of a training unit and the applicable
training incentive multiplier. Upon receipt, a city official shall present a
copy of the certification of the completion of the training unit and the
applicable training incentive multiplier to the city in order to receive his or
her training incentive payment.
(Ord. 2011-003, passed 8-16-2011)
§ 31.35 STATUS OF INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Training incentive payments do not constitute wages under KRS Chapter
337, creditable compensation under the County Employees Retirement System under
KRS Chapter 78, or compensation for the purposes of setting maximum
compensation or modification of compensation under KRS Chapter 83A, and may be
repealed or modified by the city at any time.
   (B)   The base training incentive payment amount established in this
subchapter shall not be adjusted by any index reporting changes to consumer
prices or any other method to account for inflation.
(Ord. 2011-003, passed 8-16-2011)
CHAPTER 32: CITY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
32.01   Woodford County Economic Development Authority
   
32.02   Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Tourist Commission
   
32.03   Board of Adjustment
   
32.04   Sister Cities Board
   
32.05   Park Board of Midway, Kentucky
 
   
32.99   Penalty
§ 32.01 WOODFORD COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City of Midway hereby joins the City of Versailles and the
Woodford County Fiscal Court as participating governmental units in the
Woodford County Economic Development Authority (formerly Versailles-Woodford
County Economic Development Authority) (hereinafter referred to as the
Authority, with the term "Authority" having the same meaning as set forth in
KRS 154.26-010(7) and 154.28-010(8)), an established joint industrial
development authority as authorized by the Local Industrial Development
Authority Act (KRS Chapters 154.26 and 154.28).
   (B)   The Authority shall have the same powers, duties and purposes as
prescribed by the Act.
   (C)   The Authority shall consist of 7 individual members. Each member shall
serve a term of 4 years.
   (D)   The City of Midway shall enter into an agreement with the City of
Versailles and the Woodford County Fiscal Court, which agreement shall be
approved by the Midway City Council and shall set forth the manner of
appointment of the individual members of the authority as permitted by KRS
154.20-010 and such other matters as may be agreed upon by the participating
governmental units and otherwise allowed by law.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2004-10, passed 8-16-2004)
§ 32.02 VERSAILLES-MIDWAY-WOODFORD COUNTY TOURIST COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation of Commission. The City of Midway hereby joins with Woodford
County, Kentucky and the City of Versailles, Kentucky in that commission
hereafter to be known as the Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Tourist
Commission.
   (B)   Appointment and terms of Commissioners.  The Commission shall be
composed of 7 members to be appointed by the Judge/Executive, Mayor of
Versailles, and the Mayor of Midway in the manner set forth in KRS 91A.360 and
any successor legislation. Pursuant to KRS 91A.360(1)(d), 1 member of the
Commission shall be appointed by the Judge/Executive and 1 member of the
Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor of Versailles. One member of the
Commission, as described under KRS 91A.360(a), (b) or (c), shall be appointed
by the Mayor of Midway.
   (C)   Organization, duties and responsibilities of Commission.  
      (1)   The Commission shall elect from its members a Chairperson and a
Treasurer, and may employ such personnel and make contracts as to carry out the
purpose of KRS 91A.350 to 91A.390.
      (2)   The Commission shall quarterly submit to the Fiscal Court and each
city a report of the operation of the Commission during the preceding year. Any
request for funds for the operation of the Commission for the ensuing year,
which funds shall be over and above those designated for operation of the
Commission in division (D)(7) below, shall be accompanied by a proposed
Commission budget requested for the year in which the funds requested will be
used; provided, however, neither the Fiscal Court nor either city shall be
obligated to include an appropriation in its budget for the Commission that
exceeds 1/3 of the net tax collected under this section during the next
previous fiscal year.
   (D)   Imposition of transient room tax.
      (1)   For the purpose of operation of the Tourist and Convention
Commission and to finance the cost of acquisition, construction, operation and
maintenance of facilities useful in the attraction and promotion of tourist and
convention business, there is hereby imposed and levied a transient room tax of
3%.
      (2)   On and after April 1, 1993, every person, company, corporation or
other like or similar persons, groups or organizations doing business as motor
courts, motels, hotels, inns or like or similar business supplying
accommodations in Woodford County, shall pay quarterly into the County
Treasury, for periods ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of
each year, a transient room tax of 3% of the gross rent for every occupancy of
a suite, room or rooms charged and collected by them during the quarterly
periods. This tax shall be due and payable on or before the last day of the
month next following the last day of each quarterly period, together with a
return on a form furnished by or obtained from the Woodford County Treasurer
setting an aggregate amount of gross rentals charged and collected during the
preceding quarter for every occupancy to which the transient room tax applies,
together with other pertinent information as the Woodford County Treasurer may
require, including copies of U.S. and Kentucky income tax returns of the
business involved.
      (3)   Any tax imposed by this section which shall remain unpaid after it
becomes due, as set forth herein, shall have added to it a penalty of 10%,
together with interest at the rate of 0.5% for each month of delinquency, or
fraction thereof, until paid.
      (4)   The tax imposed by this section shall be charged under the same
regulations that apply to the state sales tax.
      (5)   The tax imposed by this section shall be in addition to other
general taxes and the occupational or business license tax.
      (6)   In consideration of collection and bookkeeping expenses incurred in
the collection of this tax, Woodford County Fiscal Court shall be paid a fee of
3% of all room taxes collected, including interest and penalty collected
thereon. All receipts, payments and controls utilized by the county relating to
the collection of the room tax shall be included in the annual audit for the
county as prescribed by the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
      (7)   After the fee referenced to in division (D)(6) above has been
deducted, the balance of all room taxes collected shall be designated as funds
to be utilized in the promotion of tourism in Versailles, Midway and Woodford
County, 1/3 of the amount designated thereof shall be considered an
appropriation from Woodford County, 1/3 from the City of Versailles, and 1/
3 from the City of Midway, and shall be available to the Versailles-Midway-
Woodford County Tourist Commission as operating funds to accomplish its
purposes as set forth herein.
      (8)   No revenue bonds may be issued by the Commission without the prior
approval and consent by the Woodford County Fiscal Court, the Versailles City
Council and the Midway City Council.
   (E)   Violations. Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to make any
return required by this section, or any person who shall refuse to permit the
Woodford County Treasurer or of any agent designated by him or her in writing
to examine his or her books, records and papers, or who shall knowingly make
any incomplete, false or fraudulent return, or who shall attempt to do anything
whatever to avoid the full disclosure of the amount of gross rent for the above
purpose in order to avoid the payment of the whole or any part of this tax
shall, upon conviction, be subject to the provisions of §
32.99.
(Ord. 2001-007, passed 11-19-2001) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Creation. A joint Board of Adjustment is hereby created, which shall
be known as the Versailles-Midway-Woodford County, Kentucky Board of
Adjustment. The Mayors and County Judge/Executive shall appoint the members
with the approval of their respective legislative bodies, and not more than a
total of 2 shall be citizen members of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Members.
      (1)   Number. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of a total of 7
members, all of whom will be citizen members.
      (2)   City members. Versailles' representation shall total 2 members,
both of whom shall be citizen members. Midway's representation shall total 2
members, both of whom shall be citizen members.
      (3)   County members.  The county's representation shall total 3 members,
all of whom shall be citizen members.
   (C)    Term of office. The term of office of all members shall be 4 years,
ending on November 1 of the designated year, and terms of those first appointed
shall be staggered so that a proportionate number serve 1, 2, 3 and 4 years
respectively, with later appointments or reappointments continuing the
staggered pattern and November 1 date for a term of 4 years.
   (D)   Reimbursement. All members shall be reimbursed for any necessary
authorized expenses.
   (E)   Other details. All other details for the joint City-County Board of
Adjustment operation which are necessary for the establishment and
administration of the Board shall be as described in KRS Chapter 100 as passed
in 1966, and as may be amended in the future.
§ 32.04 SISTER CITIES BOARD.
   (A)   Creation. A board is hereby created, which shall be known as the
Sister Cities Board of Midway, Kentucky.
   (B)   Members. The Board shall consist of up to 7, but no less than 5
members, appointed by the Mayor and subject to confirmation by a majority of
the City Council.
      (1)   The terms of office of the Board members shall be for 3 years from
the date of appointment, provided the terms of the originally appointed members
shall be staggered in the following manner:
         (a)   At least 3 members shall be appointed for 3 years.
         (b)   At least 2 members shall be appointed for 2 years.
         (c)   Additional appointees on the initial Board may be appointed for
terms up to 3 years, at the Mayor's discretion and affirmed by the City
Council.
      (2)   Vacancies on the Board shall be filled for the unexpired term in
the manner prescribed for the original appointment to maintain the minimum of 5
members.
      (3)   Vacancies of the sixth or seventh positions may be filled at the
Mayor's discretion and affirmed by the City Council.
      (4)   Board appointees shall be residents of, or owners of businesses in,
Woodford County, Kentucky.
      (5)   Any Board member may be reappointed for additional terms, not to
exceed 3 consecutive 3-year terms.
   (C)   Officers. The officers of the Board shall consist of a chairperson and
a vice-chairperson appointed by the Mayor, and other officers elected by the
Board.
      (1)   Their duties shall be as implied by their respective titles and as
may be specified in the Board by-laws.
      (2)   The Board shall determine its own rules and order of business and
shall provide for keeping a record of its proceedings, a copy of which shall be
provided to the Mayor and Council within 10 days of a Board meeting.
   (D)   Transaction of business.
      (1)   A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business at any meeting.
      (2)   The acts of the majority of those members present in any regular or
special meeting of the Board shall be the acts of the Board.
   (E)   Duties. The Board shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   The Board shall cause the people of Midway and Woodford County,
Kentucky, and the people of similar jurisdictions of foreign nations to acquire
a consciousness of each other, to understand one another as individuals, as
members of their community, as citizens of their country, and as part of the
family of nations.
      (2)   As a consequence of such knowledge and consciousness, the Board
shall foster a continuing relationship of mutual concern between the people of
Midway and Woodford County, Kentucky, and the people of similar jurisdictions
of other nations.
      (3)   Both in seeking and in consequence of such consciousness and
concern, the Board shall undertake any activities and programs as will provide
to one another appropriate aid and comfort, education and mutual understanding.
      (4)   The Board may solicit and receive contributions and obtain grants
and loans appropriate to the goals of the Board.
      (5)   The Board may enter into contracts, expend its funds, and adopt by-
laws, rules and regulations as are necessary to carry out its duties and
purposes as set forth in this section.
      (6)   The Board shall submit an annual report and financial statements,
which summarize the previous year's activities, to the Mayor and City Council.
      (7)   The Board may establish committees, headed by Board members, which
shall include interested members of the public, for the purpose of carrying out
the duties as set forth herein.
      (8)   The Board may perform any other act necessary or appropriate to
carry out the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 2010-001, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 32.05 PARK BOARD OF MIDWAY, KENTUCKY.
   (A)   Creation. A board is hereby created, which shall be known as the Park
Board of Midway, Kentucky.
   (B)   Members. The Board shall consist of up to seven, but no less than
five, members, appointed by the Mayor and subject to confirmation by a majority
of the City Council.
      (1)   The terms of the office of the Board members shall be for five
years from the date of appointment, provided the terms of the initially
appointed members shall be staggered in the following manner.
         (a)   At least two members shall be appointed for a one year term.
         (b)   At least two members shall be appointed for a two year term.
         (c)   At least two members shall be appointed for a three year term.
         (d)   Additional appointees on the initial Board may be appointed for
terms up to five years at the Mayor’s discretion and affirmed by the City
Council. At least one member of the Board shall be a City Council person.
      (2)   Vacancies on the Board shall be filled for the unexpired term in
the manner prescribed for the original appointment to maintain the minimum of
five members.
      (3)   Any Board member may be reappointed for additional terms, not to
exceed two consecutive five year terms.
      (4)   All Board members are volunteers serving without any compensation.
   (C)   Officers. The officers of the Board shall consist of a chairperson and
a vice-chairperson to be elected by the Board after it is fully constituted,
and other officers as determined by the Board, including a member to serve as
secretary who shall be responsible for keeping minutes of all Board meetings.
      (1)   The duties of officers shall be as implied by their respective
titles and as may be specified in the Board by-laws.
      (2)   The Board shall determine its own rules and order of business and
shall provide for keeping a record of its proceedings, a copy of which shall be
provided to the Mayor and City Council within ten days of a Board meeting.
   (D)   Transaction of business.
      (1)   A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business at any meeting.
      (2)   The acts of the majority of those members present in any regular or
special meeting of the Board shall be the acts of the Board.
   (E)   Purpose; duties.  Purpose and duties of the Board are as follows:
      (1)   To conserve, manage, sustain and enhance the natural and cultural
resources of Midway’s city parks and its green space for the enjoyment and
enrichment of the Midway community.
      (2)   All Board meeting shall comply with the Open Meetings Act and be
open to the public.
      (3)   The Board shall elect from among its members a member to serve as
Park Manager who is responsible for monitoring the day-to-day condition or need
of the city’s parks and to make recommendations to the Board, Mayor and City
Council in furthering the conservation, management, sustainment and enhancement
of the parks.
      (4)   Funding may be sought from the city by the Board to be presented
annually to the City Council by its Parks Manager with determination by the
City Council as part of the annual budgetary process.
      (5)   The Board may solicit and receive contributions and obtain grants
and loans appropriate to the goals of the Board.
      (6)   The Board may enter into contracts, expend its funds, and adopt by-
laws, rules and regulations as are necessary to carry out its duties and
purposes as set forth in this section.
      (7)   The Board shall submit an annual report and financial statements,
which summarize the previous year’s activities, to the Mayor and City Council.
      (8)   The Board may perform any other act necessary or appropriate to
carry out the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 2010-001, passed 3-15-2010; Am. Ord. 2016-08, passed 9-19-2016)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
32.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not
more than 30 days, or both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 2001-007, passed 11-19-2001)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   House numbers required
Fire Department
   
33.15   State Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
33.16   Fire hydrants, color
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 HOUSE NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each and every residence, building, business or other structure within
the limits of the city shall display its assigned street number; provided,
however, that if the residence, building or business has a mailbox located
immediately in front of the structure and upon the same street address as the
structure, the owner or occupant of the property may, at his or her election,
display the assigned street number upon the mailbox or its supporting
structure.
(Am. Ord. 98-002, passed 6-1-1998)
   (B)   All street numbers shall be displayed in a manner so that they are
clearly visible and legible from the traveled portion of the street. The minium
size of street numbers shall be 3 inches in height.
   (C)   The owner of any residence, building, business or other structure
which does not display its assigned street number as required by this section
within 30 days after receipt of notice from the city shall be fined according
to the provisions of §
33.99.
   (D)   The city may, in its discretion, anytime after 30 days from the
effective date of this section, post street numbers upon any residence,
building, business or other structure upon which a street number has not been
displayed in accordance with this section and assess a reasonable charge
against the property for its expenses, the minimum amount of the charge to be
$25.
(1997 Code, § 300.1) (Ord. passed 5-7-1990) Penalty, see §
33.99
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.15 STATE FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code) as promulgated
in 815 KAR 10:060 by the Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings
and Construction on the advice and recommendation of the State Fire Marshal, is
hereby adopted in full as an ordinance of the City of Midway. Copies of the
Fire Prevention Code are available through the Department of Housings,
Buildings and Construction, 101 Sea Hero Road, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
   (B)   The Midway Fire Chief shall be designated as the local enforcement
officer for the standards of safety as appointed by the city.
   (C)   The cost of any permit or fee shall be as specified by ordinance.
   (D)   All final decisions of the fire code official of the city shall be
appealable to the City Council pursuant to procedures adopted by the city.
   (E)   Nothing in this section or in the Fire Prevention Code hereby adopted
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any court, or
any rights acquired, liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action,
acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in
division (F) below; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any
character be lost, impaired or affected by this section.
   (F)   Any and all ordinances inconsistent with this section are hereby
repealed.
(1997 Code, § 311.0) (Ord. passed 12-10-1990)
§ 33.16 FIRE HYDRANTS, COLOR.
   (A)   All fire hydrants located within the city that are connected to the
city water supply system shall be painted yellow with red caps.
   (B)   All fire hydrants located within the city that are connected to a
private water supply system shall be painted red with white caps.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the person or firm installing a fire hydrant
to the city water supply system to paint the fire hydrant in accordance with
this section.
(1997 Code, § 312.0) (Ord. 92-006, passed 4-6-1992; Am. Ord. 2012-12, passed
10-1-2012)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
33.01(C) shall be fined $5 per day for each day of the continuing violation of
this section.
(1997 Code, § 300.1) (Ord. passed 5-7-1990)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES AND REVENUE; LICENSES
Section
Financial Administration
   
34.001   Adoption of fiscal year
   
34.002   Definitions
   
34.003   Accounting records and financial reports
   
34.004   Annual budget ordinance
   
34.005   Annual audit of city funds
   
34.006   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Taxes
   
34.015   Property assessment/reassessment moratorium
   
34.016   Insurance license and tax
Ad Valorem Taxes
   
34.030   Assessment
   
34.031   Delinquent taxes; penalty; enforcement
   
34.032   Taxable rate determined
   
34.033   Payment schedule for ad valorem taxes
Licenses
   
34.045   Licenses generally
   
34.046   through 34.053 [Reserved]
   
34.054   Alcoholic beverage license fees
   
34.055   Sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink
   
34.056   License tax on dogs
   
34.057   Definitions
   
34.058   Business license application and certificate required
   
34.059   Sale or auction by itinerant person, corporation or business
   
34.060   Peddlers, vendors, sales persons or solicitors
   
34.061   Penalties
   
34.062   Provisions severable
   
34.063   Beginning date
Occupational License and Tax
   
34.070   Definitions
   
34.071   License application required
   
34.072   Occupational license tax payment required
   
34.073   Apportionment
   
34.074   Employers to withhold
   
34.075   Returns required
   
34.076   Extensions
   
34.077   Refunds
   
34.078   Federal audit provisions
   
34.079   Administrative provisions
   
34.080   Information to remain confidential
   
34.081   Penalties
   
34.082   Use of occupational license tax
Bank Franchise and Local Deposit Tax
   
34.100   Franchise tax imposed on financial institutions
   
34.101   Tax timetable
   
34.102   Lien for taxes
   
34.103   Penalty for delinquent taxes
   
34.104   Taxes paid to General Fund
911 Service Fee
   
34.115   Definitions
   
34.116   911 service fee
   
34.117   Collection of 911 service fee
   
34.118   Creation of 911 Board
   
34.119   Duties of 911 Service Board
   
34.120   Failure to pay 911 service fee
   
34.121   Repeal/termination of ordinance
   
34.122   Repeal of 911 fee charged on land lines
 
   
34.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Transient room tax, see §
32.02
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 34.001 ADOPTION OF FISCAL YEAR.
   The city adopts a fiscal year beginning July 1 of each and every year and
ending June 30 of the next year.
(1997 Code, § 229.1) (Ord. 220.9, passed 1-10-1983)
§ 34.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year, and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010)
§ 34.003 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 34.004 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No monies shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover 1 fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any 1 fiscal year in violation of § 157 of
the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated, for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance's adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. That responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. The reports shall be submitted not less than once every 3 months
in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
34.003.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements and obligations, express or implied, beyond the existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond, certificate
or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any extent,
beyond the unexpended balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 34.005 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) of this section, each city
shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be
audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant.The
audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   In lieu of the annual audit requirements in division (A), a city with
a population equal to or less than 1,000 based upon the most recent federal
decennial census may elect to have an audit performed every other fiscal year
in the following manner:
      (1)   After the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
for that odd- numbered year cause each fund of the city to be audited by the
Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall
be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year to be audited.
The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the Department
for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April 1
immediately following the fiscal year being audited; and
      (2)   After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, the city shall
not be required to complete an annual audit but shall forward an electronic
copy of its financial statement prepared in accordance with KRS 424.220 to the
Department for Local Government by no later than October 1 immediately
following the close of the even-numbered fiscal year.
   (C)   Any city, which for any fiscal year receives and expends, from all
sources and for all purposes, less than $150,000, and which has no long-term
debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be required to
audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. In addition, each
city exempted in accordance with this division shall:
      (1)   Annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and shall, not later than October 1 following the conclusion of the
fiscal year, forward 1 electronic copy to the Department for Local Government
for information purposes; and
      (2)   If exempted under this division for more than 4 consecutive fiscal
years after July 1, 2022, have prepared an attestation engagement covering the
fourth fiscal year in which the city qualified for an exemption under this
division. An attestation engagement completed pursuant to this division shall
be:
         (a)   Prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by the
Auditor of Public Accounts pursuant to a contract with the city using generally
accepted attestation standards as promulgated by the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and any additional procedures established by the
Department for Local Government through administrative regulation;
         (b)   Completed by no later than March 1 immediately following the
conclusion of the fiscal year in which in the attestation engagement is
required;
         (c)   Submitted to the Department for Local Government as 1 electronic
copy no later than April 1 after its completion;
         (d)   Advertised to the public within 30 days of its completion by
causing the publication of a legal display advertisement of not less than 6
column inches in a newspaper qualified under KRS 424.120 stating that the
attestation has been prepared and copies have been provided to each local
newspaper of general circulation, each news service, and each local radio and
television station which has on file with the city a written request to receive
copies of financial statements under KRS 424.220. Any city advertising under
this subparagraph shall be exempt from publishing its financial statement under
KRS 424.220(6)(b) for any year in which it is required to have an attestation
engagement completed; and
         (e)   Provided to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request for
review of the final report and all related work papers and documents regarding
the attestation engagement.
   (D)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (E)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under divisions (A) through (C) to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (F)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (G)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (H)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit of
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter.
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds.
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours.
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use.
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed $.25 per page.
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required thereby,
are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the officer
responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (I)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be subject to the
provisions of § 34.999.
(KRS 91A.040)  Penalty, see §
34.999
Statutory reference:
    Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 34.006 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories 1 or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
TAXES
§ 34.015 PROPERTY ASSESSMENT/REASSESSMENT MORATORIUM.
   (A)   There is hereby established a program for the granting of property
assessment or reassessment moratorium for the rehabilitation of residential
single-family units of real property located in the area of Midway, where
property is being rehabilitated partially with state and federal funds. This
shall include but not be limited to the Midway Scattered-Site Housing
Rehabilitation Project funded by the Kentucky Department for Local Government
from Community Development Block Grant funds and The Kentucky Housing
Corporation's HOME funds.
   (B)   (1)   To be eligible, the cost of rehabilitation, including materials
and labor, must equal or exceed $20,000.
      (2)   REHABILITATION is defined as the process of returning an existing
structure to a state of utility through repair, rebuild or alteration, which
makes possible an efficient contemporary use.
   (C)   This moratorium program shall be administered by the Mayor of Midway.
   (D)   All moratoriums shall be for a period of 5 years, and each shall
become effective on the assessment date next following the issuance of the
moratorium certificate.
   (E)   Applications shall be made to the Property Valuation Administrator for
a property assessment or reassessment moratorium certificate as follows:
      (1)   The application shall be on a form prescribed by the Department of
Revenue and shall be filed in the manner prescribed by the Mayor.
      (2)   The application shall be filed with the Mayor 30 days before
commencing the restoration.
      (3)   The application shall contain the following:
         (a)   A general description of the property;
         (b)   A general description of its proposed use;
         (c)   The general nature and extent of the rehabilitation to be
undertaken; and
         (d)   A time schedule for undertaking and completing the project.
   (F)   The Property Valuation Administrator and the Mayor shall maintain a
record of all applications for a property assessment or reassessment
moratorium. The Property Valuation Administrator shall assess or reassess the
property within 30 days of receipt of the application. This assessment shall be
the value for which taxes are not to be raised for 5 years.
   (G)   The applicant shall have 2 years in which to complete the
improvements.
   (H)   Any application not acted upon by the applicant shall become void
after 2 years from the date of application and shall be purged from the files
of the Property Valuation Administrator and the Mayor.
   (I)   On the assessment date next following the expiration, cancellation or
revocation of an assessment or reassessment moratorium, property shall be
assessed based on its full fair cash value.
   (J)   The applicant shall notify the Property Valuation Administrator and
the Mayor when the project is complete, and the person designated by the
Property Valuation Administrator shall then conduct an on-site inspection of
the property for purposes of verifying improvements. Only after the project is
complete and the improvements verified shall the moratorium certificate be
issued by the Property Valuation Administrator.
   (K)   Definitions for interpreting this section shall be as set out in KRS
Chapter 99 relating to property assessment and reassessment moratoriums.
(Ord. 2000-003, passed 5-15-2000; Am. Ord. 2002-006, passed 5-16-2002)
§ 34.016 INSURANCE LICENSE AND TAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for
the privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate
limits of the city on a calendar year basis.
   (B)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 5% of the first year's premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of the policies.
   (C)   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 5% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which the company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or the
death of their employees, caused thereby, under the provisions of the Worker's
Compensation Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 901 et seq. and shall not include premiums
received on policies of group health insurance provided for state employees
under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228.
   (D)   All license fees imposed by this ordinance shall be due no later than
30 days after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid
on or before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as
defined in KRS 131.010(6).
   (E)   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this
section shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city with a written breakdown
of all collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories
of insurance:
      (1)   Casualty;
      (2)   Automobile;
      (3)   Inland marine;
      (4)   Fire and allied perils;
      (5)   Health; and
      (6)   Life.
   (F)   Effective date for this section is July 1, 1999.
(Ord. 99-04, passed 3-1-1999)
AD VALOREM TAXES
§ 34.030 ASSESSMENT.
   The city elects to use the annual county assessment for property situated
within the city as prepared by the Woodford County Property Valuation
Administrator as the basis of ad valorem levies ordered or approved by the
legislative body of the city.
(1997 Code, § 222.101) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.031 DELINQUENT TAXES; PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall, as early in the month of July as is practicable,
but no later than August 15, make a list of all the tax bills remaining in
whole or in part unpaid on the date due and payable. When the list of
delinquent taxes is complete, the City Clerk shall verify this list by his or
her oath, and file this list with the City Council, together with a certificate
that the tax has been demanded as herein required and payment refused; and a
failure to pay shall be deemed a refusal to pay. A false report or a failure to
report by the City Clerk shall not invalidate subsequent proceedings for
collection of the tax. The list of delinquent taxable properties shall contain
the following:
      (1)   A description of the land, lot and street address computed and an
appropriate designation of the owner of each tax bill;
      (2)   A statement indicating the amount of each delinquent tax bill,
including the year, also the rate at which interest and penalties shall be;
      (3)   The name of the last known person appearing on the records of the
collection in whose name the tax bills on such real estate were listed or
charged for the preceding calendar year.
   (B)   All taxes due under this section and all fees, penalties and interest
thereon are a personal debt of the taxpayer on the assessment date, from the
time the tax becomes due until paid.
   (C)   For the purpose of enforcing the payment of delinquent taxes, the city
reserves the right in all cases to file a lien against the applicable property
for nonpayment, and to enforce collection of any tax bill due it by the
procedure authorized by the provisions of KRS 91.484 to 91.527 and KRS Chapter
134, or as amended, for all fees.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall collect the taxes placed in his or her hands by
the Council for collection, including without limitation, taxes on real
property located within the city, license taxes and taxes paid by banks,
building associations or other corporations. He or she shall on the first
Monday in each month provide a report to the City Council, verified by his or
her oath, detailing all taxes and other funds collected by him or her during
the proceeding month. He or she shall upon receipt of any tax give his or her
receipt therefor.
   (E)   All ad valorem taxes due and owing shall accrue interest at the rate
of 12% per annum if not paid by the due date.
(1997 Code, § 222.103) (Am. Ord. passed 1-4-1988; Am. Ord. 2009-24, passed 1-4-
2010; Am. Ord. 2010-07, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 34.032 TAXABLE RATE DETERMINED.
   Before April 15 in each year, the Council shall fix the rate of ad valorem
tax for realty and personalty to be levied for that taxable year, which runs
from January 1 through December 1.
(1997 Code, § 222.1.4)
Cross-reference:
   Taxes levied, see
T.S.O. VI
§ 34.033 PAYMENT SCHEDULE FOR AD VALOREM TAXES.
   (A)   All city taxes assessed on real property are due and payable on or
before December 31 of the assessment year.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays the property taxes in full by November 1 of the
assessment year shall receive a 2% discount on the amount otherwise due.
   (C)   Taxes paid in full between November 2 and December 31 of the
assessment year shall be paid at the amount reflected on the tax bill without
discount or penalty.
   (D)   Taxes paid in full between January 1 and January 31 of the year
following the assessment year shall be subject to a penalty of 5% of the taxes
due and unpaid.
   (E)   Taxes paid after January 31 of the year following the assessment year
shall be subject to a penalty of 10% of the taxes due and unpaid.
   (F)   All ad valorem taxes shall be deposited by taxpayers at the Office of
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2010-06, passed 9-20-2010)
LICENSES
§ 34.045 LICENSES GENERALLY.
   (A)   How issued. No license and/or permit shall be granted unless by order
of the Council except the City Clerk/Treasurer may issue the license and/or
permit on application being made at the rates herein specified by ordinance
without further order, and to report the same to the next meeting of the
Council; however the Clerk/Treasurer's authorization extends only to licenses
and/or permits that have been previously issued. All initial licenses and/or
permits shall be subject to Council approval; but no license may be issued by
the Clerk/Treasurer until the applicant produces to the Clerk/Treasurer the
receipt for the sum required to be paid for the desired license and/or permit.
   (B)   Application to congregations, meetings and assemblies. Any permits for
congregations, meetings, and/or assemblies shall be subject to rules and
regulations as set forth by the Council and shall be incorporated by reference
as if set out in length herein.
(Ord. 430.2, passed - -)
   (C)   When expired. All licenses shall expire on December 31 next following
the date of the issuance of the license, except as otherwise provided.
(1997 Code, § 222.200) (Ord. 2008-14, passed 11-17-2008)
§§ 34.046 THROUGH 34.053 [RESERVED].
§ 34.054 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   No license authorizing the sale of liquor and alcoholic beverages
shall be issued until there has been paid to the city, the applicable license
fee provided for in this section.
   (B)   The kinds and types of alcoholic beverage licenses that may be issued
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control under
the provisions of KRS Chapter 243, and as may be amended from time to time and
that is in effect at the time of submittal of an application, may also be
issued by the city unless by the specific terms of applicable state statutes
such license is not issuable in a city of the fourth class.
   (C)   For the issuance of the type of license listed below as is permitted
by statute for the privilege of manufacturing, trafficking in and selling
alcoholic beverages, payment shall be made to the City Clerk of a fee in the
same amount as is permitted by statute but not to exceed the specified amount
as set out by applicable statute and as may be amended from time to time and
which is in effect at the time an application for a license is submitted, to-
wit:
                                  Fee and Renewal
      (1)   Quota retail package license (liquor/wine), per annum   $570.00
      (2)   NQ2 retail drink license (liquor/wine) malt beverage included, per
annum   $830.00
      (3)   Special temporary license, per event   $50.00
      (4)   Special temporary distilled spirits and wine auction license   
$110.00
      (5)   Special Sunday retail drink license, per annum   $520.00
      (6)   Quota retail drink license (including restaurant wine), per
annum   $620.00
      (7)   Caterer’s license, per annum   $830.00
      (8)   NQ4 retail malt beverage drink license   $210.00
         Can add NQ retail malt beverage package license    $50.00
      (9)   NQ retail malt beverage package license   $210.00
         Can add NQ4 retail malt beverage drink license   $50.00
      (10)   Qualified historic site license   $1,030.00
      (11)   Sampling license   $110.00
      (12)   NQ3 retail drink license   $310.00
      (13)   Hotel in-room license   $110.00
      (14)   For any other license for which an applicant may apply but that is
not specifically mentioned hereinabove, the local government license fee shall
be equal to but shall not exceed the amount set forth by statute and as may be
amended from time to time.
   (D)   The license fees set forth in division (C) for the kinds of city local
government licenses and as may be amended from time to time shall be effective
upon publication.
   (E)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit an applicant from being
required to obtain multiple licenses from the city due to the nature and type
of its business. No license permitted to be issued by statute in cities of the
fourth class shall be issued unless the applicant desiring such privilege has
met the requirements as set forth in KRS Chapters 241 through 245 necessary to
obtain a license from the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (F)   The Clerk is authorized to issue such license as is provided for in
division (C) upon payment of the applicable license fee therein stated.
   (G)   All alcohol beverage license fees shall begin July 1 of any year and
shall terminate June 30 following the date of issuance. Any license issued
after October 31 of any year shall be assessed a fee that is based on the pro
rata of the remainder of the license period; however, the cost of any license
shall not be less than 1/2 the amount of the full fee for an annual license of
the type for which applied.
   (H)   Before any person is granted a license, the person shall file with the
city a good and solvent bond approved by the Commonwealth of Kentucky for the
use and benefit of the city in the penal sum of $500.00 or as otherwise is
required by statute, and as may be amended from time to time, on the condition
that the licensee will not suffer or permit any violation of the provisions of
KRS and that all fines and penalties that shall accrue during the time the
license shall be in effect will be paid together with all costs taxed or
allowed involving any action or proceeding brought or instituted for a
violation of any of the provisions of the alcoholic beverage statutes and
regulations pertaining thereto.
   (I)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section or § 34.055
shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
34.999.
(Ord. 2009-008, passed 6-15-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-003, passed 2-20-2012; Am. Ord.
2013-11, passed 11-4-2013) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.055 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY THE DRINK.
   (A)   Hotels, motels and inns shall be entitled to apply for a license for
the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption on the premises so
long as they contain not less than 50 sleeping units and have dining facilities
for not less than 100 persons or if a bona fide restaurant it is open to the
general public having dining facilities for not less than 100 persons. Each
establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption
on the premises shall be subject to imposition of a regulatory license fee upon
the gross receipts of its business on an annual basis at a rate as shall be
reasonably estimated to reimburse the city or county for the estimated cost for
any additional policing, regulatory or administrative related expenses. This
regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any other taxes, fees or
licenses permitted by law but a credit against the fee shall be allowed in an
amount equal to any license or fees imposed by the city pursuant to §
34.054.
   (B)   Retail malt beverage licensees may sell beer on Sundays by the drink
or by the package within the times allowed in §
114.07(B).
(Ord. 2012-003, passed 2-20-2012)
§ 34.056 LICENSE TAX ON DOGS.
   (A)   A license tax of $2 for each dog kept within the city shall be paid
annually by each person owning, controlling or having a dog in possession, the
license tax to be paid to the Chief of Police, who shall give to the person so
paying the same a metal tag or other proper receipt so marked as to designate
the year for which the tax is paid, and the Chief of Police shall keep a record
of the names of all persons so paying the license tax.
   (B)   Any person who shall harbor, conceal or confine any such animal
mentioned in the preceding section for the purpose of avoiding the payment of
the license tax shall be subject to the provisions of §
34.999.
(1997 Code, § 222.212)
§ 34.057 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit including, the rental or
offering of rent of any property, real or personal, having a site in the city,
but shall not include foundations, nonprofit corporations, or associations
organized solely for the purposes of religious, charitable, scientific,
literary, educational, civic or fraternal purposes.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability corporation,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted, including, peddlers, itinerant
vendors, merchants or auctioneers.
   CITY. The city of Midway, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 34.058 BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION AND CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person or business that intends to operate and conduct business
in the city, excepting those persons or entities referenced in §§ 34.059 and
34.060, shall remit an annual non-refundable payment of $50 that shall be
payable on or before January 1 of each and every year, together with completion
of an application to do business within the city, which upon submission of the
payment a business license certificate will be issued to the licensee before or
upon commencement of any business activity by the applicant. Licensees are
required to notify the city of any changes in address, the cessation of
business, or any other changes that render the information supplied to the city
in the license application incomplete or inaccurate.
   (B)   Each year, the city shall issue a business license certificate to each
business entity or person engaged in business or an occupation licensed under
this chapter. The certificate shall show the year for which it is issued, the
name of the business entity to which it is issued, and the address or location
of the business entity being licensed, provided that the annual license fee is
paid. Each business entity shall maintain the license certificate at its
business location in the city, if located in the city.
   (C)   The city shall withhold issuance of a business license certificate to
any business or business entity that has failed to pay all other taxes to the
city, including, but not limited to, ad valorem taxes, personal property taxes,
and the like. A business license certificate authorizing the conduct and
operation of a business within the City of Midway shall be withheld until
payment of all taxes due and owing the city.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 34.059 SALE OR AUCTION BY ITINERANT PERSON, CORPORATION OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an itinerant person, firm, corporation or
business to sell, or expose for sale, at auction or otherwise, any kind of
goods, including beverages, prepared foods or food products, crafts, artwork,
wares or merchandise within the corporate limits of the city without first
having obtained from the Clerk/Treasurer of the city a business license
certificate to sell or expose for sale the same.
   (B)   The license fee for the privilege to sell or expose for sale any
goods, beverages, prepared food or food products, crafts, artwork wares or
merchandise within the city shall be $10 per day, paid in advance for each day
the privilege is exercised.
   (C)   The license fee imposed in this section may by Council approval be
collected by a third party if related to an event or festival sponsored,
organized or controlled by the third party. All information required for the
issuance of a business license must be obtained from each applicant and
forwarded to the City Clerk along with fees collected pursuant to this
provision within 5 business days of collection.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 34.060 PEDDLERS, VENDORS, SALES PERSONS OR SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for peddlers, vendors or solicitors of any kind
of goods, including beverages, prepared foods or food products, crafts,
artwork, wares or merchandise (except for vendors of fresh unprocessed
vegetables, eggs, butter, honey and the like) within the corporate limits of
the city, without first having obtained a business license certificate to sell
or expose for sale the same.
   (B)   The license fee for the privilege to sell and expose for sale any
goods, beverages, prepared foods or food products, crafts, artwork, wares or
merchandise within the city shall be and $10 per day in advance for each day
the privilege is exercised.
   (C)   The license fee imposed in this section may by Council be collected by
a third party if related to an event, or festival sponsored, organized or
controlled by a third party. All information required for issuance of a
business license must be obtained from each applicant and forwarded to the City
Clerk along with fees collected pursuant to this provision within five business
days of collection.
   (D)   No business license shall be required for direct sales related to and
fundraising efforts of a charitable organization recognized by the Internal
Revenue Service as a 501(c)(3).
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 34.061 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any business entity shall pay as part of the business license fee an
amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the fee due, but not
previously paid, from the time the fee was due until the tax is paid to the
city. The fraction of a month shall be counted as an entire month.
   (B)   Every unpaid tax due or fee imposed, including, interest thereon,
shall become, from the time the tax or fee is due and payable, a personal debt
of the owner or owners of the business entity or person liable therefor. Any
tax or fee due and any penalties and interest as provided herein may be
collected by civil action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. To the extent
authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to recover all court costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by it in enforcing any of the provisions
herein for the collection of taxes and fees due and owing.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 34.062 PROVISIONS SEVERABLE.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable; and the invalidity of any
provision of this chapter pertaining to business licenses and fees and unpaid
taxes shall not affect the validity of any other provision thereof; and such
other provisions shall remain in full force and effect as long as they remain
valid in the absence of those provisions determined to be invalid.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 9-20-2010)
§ 34.063 BEGINNING DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall become effective September 20, 2010.
All ordinances or part of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed
and superseded to the extent of such conflict.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 9-20-2010)
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE AND TAX
§ 34.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes or receipts of such unit, group, or association, inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY.  The City of Midway, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions or any other form of remuneration
paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an employee, which are
required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and adjusted as
follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Sections 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or other
payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to
Sections 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity's
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any 1 or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term  EMPLOYER means such
person.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT.  The revenue agent's report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2003, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2004, that would
otherwise terminate.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in Section 61 of the Internal Revenue
Code minus all the deductions from gross income allowed by Chapter 1 of the
Internal Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class with the authority to
levy net profits, or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue only within the city means NET PROFIT as defined in this section.
TAXABLE NET PROFIT in case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue
both within and without the city means NET PROFIT as defined in this section,
and as apportioned under §
34.073.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net profit is computed.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.071 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city shall
be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license from the city
before the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business
status. Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes in address,
the cessation of business, or any other changes which render the information
supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.072 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, every person or
business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business
entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or
the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an
occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the city. The occupational license tax shall be measured by 2% of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee; or
      (2)   The net profit from business conducted in the city by a resident or
nonresident business entity.
   (B)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, or trust,
banking and title insurance company organized and doing business in this state,
any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4)   Public Service Corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their net profits derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages; or
      (6)   Life insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.073 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, net profit shall
be apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than 1 tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the numerator
of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) of this section, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) of this section, and the
denominator of which is 2; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than 1 tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual's
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sale, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity's activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity's business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any 1 or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of 1 or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity's business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer's reported percentages under this subsection,
the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S-corporations, and all other entities where income
is passed through to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
passed through these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this division on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.074 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license tax
calculated under §
34.072 of this chapter.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to 1 or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
subsection unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account for,
or pay over the tax imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes imposed
by this chapter become or became due.
   (I)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) of this section, every employee
receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
34.072 of this chapter shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all
cases where the employer does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter
from the employee, such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing
with the city each quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.075 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this subchapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.076 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than 6
months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the tax
shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the tax
was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.077 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
34.074 of this chapter, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the
extent of overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is
received by the city from the employer within two years from the date the
overpayment was made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within 2 years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.078 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city may
examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within 5 years from the date the return was filed, except as otherwise
provided in this section.
      (1)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent return
the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
      (2)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within 6 years after the return was filed.
      (3)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly to
adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this subsection, or 6 months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (4)   The times provided in this subsection may be extended by agreement
between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this subsection,
a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing
the return shall also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law
for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.079 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this subchapter.
   (B)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter may be
refunded or credited within 2 years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
      (1)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
34.078 of this subchapter has been extended by an agreement between the
business entity and the city, the limitation contained in this subsection shall
be extended accordingly.
      (2)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to adjustments
resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a claim for
refund or credit within the time provided for in this subsection or 6 months
from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (3)   For the purposes of this division and division (A) of this section,
a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return
shall be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this subchapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.080 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person's business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer's properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax law or in any action challenging a
tax district tax laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky grants to the city
the reciprocal right to obtain information form the files and records of the
Kentucky Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the
information so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish
statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data
respecting net profits or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) of this section with any other taxing
entity, should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect
diligent enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.081 PENALTIES.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be subject
to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or fraction
thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this subsection shall not
exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
34.074 of this chapter may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to 5% of the
tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied
pursuant to this subsection shall not exceed 25% of the total tax due; however,
the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this subchapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
34.072 of this subchapter and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in
divisions (A) through (D) of this section by civil action in a court of
appropriate jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the city shall be
entitled to recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it
in enforcing any provision of this subchapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this subchapter, or by the rules of the city
or by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
34.080 of this subchapter by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer
information without authorization, shall be fined not more than $500, or
imprisoned for not longer than 6 months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
34.080 of this subchapter by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall
be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 34.082 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city's
General Revenue Fund.
(Ord. 2008-004, passed 6-16-2008)
BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
§ 34.100 FRANCHISE TAX IMPOSED ON FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.
   There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions, as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, a franchise tax
at the rate of 0.022% on all deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136,
maintained by such financial institutions.
(1997 Code, § 225.1) (Ord. 96-09, passed 12-2-1996)
§ 34.101 TAX TIMETABLE.
   For all tax years, the following timetable is hereby established:
   (A)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later than
December 1 of each year.
   (B)   Payment of tax shall be due with a 2% discount by December 31 of each
year, or without the discount by January 31 of each year.
(1997 Code, § 225.3) (Ord. 96-09, passed 12-2-1996)
§ 34.102 LIEN FOR TAXES.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(1997 Code, § 225.4) (Ord. 96-09, passed 12-2-1996)
§ 34.103 PENALTY FOR DELINQUENT TAXES.
   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid before
January 31 shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to a penalty of 2%
and shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum.
(1997 Code, § 225.5) (Ord. 96-09, passed 12-2-1996)
§ 34.104 TAXES PAID TO GENERAL FUND.
   All monies collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 225.6) (Ord. 96-09, passed 12-2-1996)
911 SERVICE FEE
§ 34.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   911 SERVICE FEE. An annual fee imposed upon each structure with a unique
address on a parcel of real property located within the city as determined by
the records of the County Property Valuation Administrator and 911 point
information. The fee shall be used solely for the delivery of enhanced 911
emergency telephone service as provided for by KRS 65.760 and the associated
maintenance of systems and devices, including but not limited to the operating
costs of the Versailles-Woodford County Dispatch center, E911 equipment,
training of personnel, and public education campaigns.
   BUSINESS PROPERTY. An individual business unit with a unique address on a
parcel of land zoned P-1, B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-5,I-1,I-2, or otherwise deemed
to be business property by the 911 Service Fee Board.
   GOVERNMENT BUILDING. A building used by a local government entity as
determined by the 911 Board.
   PRIVATE UNIVERSITY. A campus of a private university that provides services
to students on-site.
   PUBLIC SCHOOL BUILDING. A building used for the provision of public school
services.
   PUBLIC SERVICE PROPERTY. An individual business or residential unit with a
unique address in any zoning district that is used as a church, nonprofit
service provider, food pantry, or private school.
   RESIDENTIAL ADDRESS POINT. An individual living unit with a unique address
on a parcel of land zoned A-1, A-2, Rural Residential, A-4, R-1 A, R-1B, R-1C,
R-2, R-3, R-4, M-1 or otherwise deemed to be residential through appeal to the
911 Service Fee Board.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 34.116 911 SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   911 service fee imposed. A 911 service fee shall be placed upon the
Woodford County ad valorem property tax bill prepared by the Woodford County
Clerk, pursuant to KRS 133.220(2), beginning September 1, 2020 and continuing
every year thereafter unless this ordinance is otherwise modified or repealed.
For those religious, charitable and educational organizations which are exempt
from ad valorem taxes, a 911 service fee shall be billed for each calendar year
by November 1 of each year. All payments of the 911 service fee shall be due by
December 31 of each calendar year. The 911 service fee shall be applied to new
construction as of June 30, 2020 for the first year of the 911 service fee and
thereafter on January 1 the year following the receipt of a certificate of
occupancy or an approved final inspection of a Zoning Permit.
   (B)   Fee amounts.
      (1)   There is hereby levied a 911 service fee of $59 on each residential
address point within Woodford County.
      (2)   There is hereby levied a 911 service fee of $59 on each address
point that is a public service property in the city.
      (3)   There is hereby levied a 911 service fee of $59 on each bourbon
barrel warehouse in the
city.
      (4)   There is hereby levied a 911 service fee of $118 on each address
point of a business property in the city where the gross floor space is less
than 50,000 square feet.
      (5)   There is hereby levied a 911 service fee of $450 on each address
point of a business property in the city where the gross floor space is 50,000
or greater.
      (6)   There is hereby levied a 911 service fee of $225 for each public
school building in the city.
      (7)   There is hereby levied a 911 service fee of $540 for each
government building in the city, as designated by the 911 Board.
      (8)   There is hereby levied a 911 service fee of $1,350 for each private
university in the city.
   (C)   Annual adjustment of 911 service fee. The 911 service fees set forth
in divisions (B)(3) through (8) above shall increase or decrease annually in
accordance with changes in the Consumer Price Index as reported by the Kentucky
Department of Local Government pursuant to KRS 64.527.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 34.117 COLLECTION OF 911 SERVICE FEE.
   All 911 service fees shall be collected by the Woodford County Sheriff and
transferred to the Woodford County - Versailles 911 account on a timely basis.
The Woodford County Sheriff shall be entitled to a reasonable collection fee to
defray the actual costs of collection and disbursement of the 911 service fee.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 34.118 CREATION OF 911 BOARD.
   There is hereby created a 911 Board consisting of the following voting
members:
   (A)   Versailles Police Chief, who shall serve as chair;
   (B)   Woodford County Sheriff, or designee;
   (C)   Woodford County Emergency Services Director, or designee;
   (D)   Woodford County Fire Chief, or designee;
   (E)   Versailles Fire Chief, or designee;
   (F)   Midway Fire Chief, or designee;
   (G)   Woodford County Coroner, or designee;
   (H)   Director of Woodford County Emergency Management, or designee;
   (I)   Director of Woodford County Animal Control, or designee; and
   (J)   A citizen member appointed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 34.119 DUTIES OF 911 SERVICE BOARD.
   The duties of the 911 Service Board shall be:
   (A)   Approve the annual budget for 911 dispatch operations;
   (B)   Designate the government buildings subject to the 911 service fee;
   (C)   Determine the annual rate for the 911 service fee after adjustment for
changes in the Consumer Price Index as required by §
34.116(C);
   (D)   Employ an Executive Director to oversee daily operations of 911
dispatch operations; and
   (E)   Create a subcommittee consisting of three members to hear and
determine appeals from property owners concerning the classification of their
property for purposes of determining the appropriate 911 service fee. The
Woodford County Sheriff or their designee shall be prohibited from serving on
this subcommittee.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 34.120 FAILURE TO PAY 911 SERVICE FEE.
   Failure to pay the 911 service fee imposed by this subchapter by December
31, 2020 and each subsequent year is a civil offense sanctioned in accordance
with the penalties adopted by the Versailles City Council and enforced by the
911 Service Board.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 34.121 REPEAL/TERMINATION OF ORDINANCE.
   Sections
34.115 through
34.120 of this subchapter shall be automatically repealed effective January 1,
2031, or upon the adoption of an ordinance by the Woodford Fiscal Court that
imposes a 911 service fee upon real property located within Woodford County,
including real property within the city, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 34.122 REPEAL OF 911 FEE CHARGED ON LAND LINES.
   The $3.50 fee imposed upon land telephone lines in Woodford County is
repealed effective December 31, 2020.
(Ord. 2020-003, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of §
34.005. Any person who violates any provision of §
34.005 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall,
for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50 nor more than
$500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once, in a
civil action brought by any resident of the city or owner of real property
within the city. The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for
the attorney of the resident or property owner bringing the action, shall be
assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.040)
   (C)   A person who violates §
34.030, upon conviction, shall be fined in a sum of not less than $50 nor more
than $100.
(1997 Code, § 222.101)
   (D)   If any person shall pursue or engage in any business or occupation set
forth in §
34.045 and §§
34.054 through
34.056, to pursue or engage in which a license is required by ordinance of this
city without having obtained a license so to do, he or she shall be fined for
each offense not less than $50 nor more than $100, unless the ordinance
imposing the license otherwise fixes a penalty for the violation thereof.
(1997 Code, § 222.214)
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §
34.054, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5 nor more than
$25 each and every day the liquors shall be sold, without the license, shall be
a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 222.210)
   (F)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
34.055 shall for each violation thereof be fined $200 or imprisoned for 30
days, or both.
(1997 Code, § 222.211)
   (G)   Any person who shall violate §
34.056 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction shall be fined
$10.
(1997 Code, § 222.212)
CHAPTER 35: CITY POLICIES
Section
Procurement Standards for Expenditure of Development Block Grant Funds
   
35.01   Scope
   
35.02   Methods of procurement
   
35.03   Contracts
   
35.04   Documentation
   
35.05   Locally owned, minority owned, female owned and small businesses
   
35.06   Code of conduct
Volunteer Work on City Property
   
35.20   Approval required to perform volunteer work projects on city property
   
35.21   Completion of the volunteer waiver and liability release form
   
35.22   Volunteer work supervision
 
   
35.99   Penalty
PROCUREMENT STANDARDS FOR EXPENDITURE OF DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT FUNDS
§ 35.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   All procurements made by the city involving the expenditure of
Kentucky Community Development Block Grant Funds will be made in accordance
with the following procurement standards.
   (B)   Procurement transactions, regardless of method or dollar value, will
maximize open and free competition. The city will not engage in procurement
practices which may be considered restrictive in trade.
   (C)   Purchases will be reviewed by the Mayor to prevent duplication and to
ensure that costs are reasonable.
(1997 Code, § 245.1) (92-019, passed 10-14-1992)
§ 35.02 METHODS OF PROCUREMENT.
   Procurements shall be made by 1 of the following methods: small purchase
procedures, competitive sealed bids, competitive negotiation and noncompetitive
negotiation, which are defined as follows:
   (A)   Small purchases.  
      (1)   Purchase of supplies, equipment and services which cost under
$2,500 do not require multiple quotes or written estimates and no legal
advertisement is required. Purchase orders are required.
      (2)   Purchases in the range of $2,500 to $30,000 require a minimum of
three quotations from valid sources by telephone, email, fax, hand delivered or
letter, with the exception of items under state contract.
   (B)   Sealed bids.
      (1)   Purchases, contracts or other agreements over $30,000 require
formally advertised, sealed bids or RFPs (requests for proposal) with formal
public openings. The requirements for responses are defined by the
solicitation. Further information for policies and procedures will be made
available during the bidding process.
      (2)   Bidding will be employed when detailed specifications for the goods
or services to be procured can be prepared and the primary basis for award is
cost. When the cost of a contract, lease or other agreement for materials,
supplies, equipment or contractual services other than those personal or
professional exceeds $7,500, an invitation for bids (IFB) notice will generally
be prepared. This notice will be published at least once in at least 1 official
newspaper of general circulation within the city. This newspaper notice will
appear not less than 7 days and not more than 21 days before the due date for
bid proposals. The Mayor may also solicit sealed bids from responsible
prospective suppliers by sending them a copy of the notice.
      (3)   The IFB will include a general description of the goods or services
to be procured, the bid deposit and bond performance required (if applicable),
the location where bid forms and specifications may be secured, the time and
place for opening bids, and whether the bid award will be made on the basis of
the lowest bid price or the lowest evaluated price. If the lowest evaluated
price is used, the measurable criteria to be utilized must be stated in the
IFB. The newspaper notice must also contain language which calls to the
attention of bidders all applicable requirements which must be complied with
such as § 3 of the 1968 Housing Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., § 109 of
the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq.,
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1971 et seq., and the David-
Bacon Act, being 40 U.S.C. §§ 276a et seq. (issued Sept. 24, 1965 and dealing
with employment opportunity).
      (4)   Sealed bids will be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the IFBs. The bids will be tabulated by the City Clerk/Treasurer at the time
of bid opening. The results of the tabulation and the bid documents will be
examined for accuracy and completeness by the review committee, which will make
recommendations to the City Council. In addition, the committee determines that
all firms are responsive and responsible. The City Council will make the
decision as to whom the contract shall be awarded. After the bid award is made
by the City Council, a contract will be prepared for execution by the
successful bidder. After the contract is signed, all bid deposits will be
returned to all unsuccessful bidders.
      (5)   The city may cancel an invitation for bid or reject all bids if it
is determined in writing that such is in the best interests of the city. The
city may allow a vendor to withdraw a bid if requested at any time prior to the
bid opening. Bids received after the time set for bid opening shall be returned
to the vendor unopened.
   (C)   Competitive negotiation.  
      (1)   The city will utilize competitive negotiations, regardless of
contract amount, upon a written determination that:
         (a)   Specifications cannot be made specific enough to permit the
award of a bid on the basis of either the lowest bid price or the lowest
evaluated bid price (in other words, bidding is not feasible).
         (b)   The services to be procured are professional or personal in
nature.
      (2)   With the exception of procurement of certain professional services
(principally engineering and legal services), competitive negotiations will
proceed as follows:
         (a)   Proposals will be solicited through newspaper advertisement;
additionally, a request for proposal (RFP) may be prepared and mailed to
qualified vendors. The newspaper advertisement must be published at least 7
days and not more than 21 days before the date for the receipt of the
proposals. The RFP will describe services needed and identify the factors to be
considered in the evaluation of proposals and the relative weights assigned to
each selection factor. The RFP will also state where further details regarding
the RFP may be obtained. The RFP will call attention to the same regulations
discussed in the bidding process. Requests for proposals will always include
cost as a selection factor.
         (b)   Award must be made to the offeror whose proposal is determined
in writing by a review committee to be the most advantageous to the city.
Evaluations must be based on the factors set forth in the request for proposal
and a written evaluation of each response prepared. The review committee may
contact the firms regarding their proposals for the purpose of clarification
and record in writing the nature of the clarification. If it is determined that
no acceptable proposal has been submitted, all proposals may be rejected. New
proposals may be solicited on the same or revised terms or the procurement may
be abandoned.
      (3)   For the procurement of certain professional services, an
alternative to RFPs may be used. The city may publish a request for
qualifications. RFQs are handled in a similar method to RFPs, with the
exception that cost is not a factor in the initial evaluation. A review
committee will evaluate the responses and rank them by comparative
qualifications. The highest scoring person or firm will be contacted and the
selection committee will negotiate cost. If the committee is unable to
negotiate a satisfactory cost arrangement, the second highest scoring person or
firm will be invited to negotiate. The committee will maintain a written record
of all these negotiations.
   (D)   Noncompetitive negotiations.  
      (1)   Noncompetitive negotiations may be used for procurement in excess
of $30,000 when bidding or competitive negotiation is not feasible. The city
may purchase goods and services through noncompetitive negotiations when it is
determined in writing by the Mayor that competitive negotiation or bidding is
not feasible and that:
         (a)   An emergency exists which will cause public harm as a result of
the delay caused by following competitive purchasing procedures;
         (b)   The product or service can be obtained only from 1 source;
         (c)   The contract is for the purchase of perishable items purchases
on a weekly or more frequent basis;
         (d)   Only 1 satisfactory proposal is received through RFP or RFQ; or
         (e)   The state has authorized the particular type of noncompetitive
negotiation (for example, the procurement of services by an area development
district).
      (2)   Procurement by noncompetitive negotiation requires the strictest
attention to the observation of impartiality toward all suppliers. The Office
of Community Development must approve all procurements by noncompetitive
negotiation when only 1 supplier is involved or only 1 bid or response to an
RFP/RFQ is received.
(1997 Code, § 245.2) (Ord. 92-019, passed 10-14-1992; Am. Ord. 2020-002, passed
3-2-2020)
§ 35.03 CONTRACTS.
   Generally, all procurement in excess of $2,500 will require a written
contract. Contracts will be determined as continuous or temporary on a case by
case basis. Continuous contracts will be effective on a case by case basis and
renewed when needed.
(1997 Code, § 245.3) (Ord. 92-019, passed 10-14-1992; Am. Ord. 2020-002, passed
3-2-2020)
§ 35.04 DOCUMENTATION.
   All source documents supporting any given transaction (receipts, purchase
orders, invoices, RFP/RFQ data and bid materials) will be retained and filed in
an appropriate manner. Where feasible, source documents pertinent to each
individual procurement shall be separately filed and maintained. Where it is
infeasible to maintain individual procurement files, source documents will be
filed and maintained in a reasonable manner (examples include chronologically,
by vendor, by type of procurement and the like). Whatever form of documentation
and filing is employed, the purpose of this section is to ensure that a clear
and consistent audit trail is established. At a minimum, source document data
must be sufficient to establish the basis for selection, basis for cost
(including the issue of reasonableness of cost) and basis for payment.
(1997 Code, § 245.4) (Ord. 92-019, passed 10-14-1992)
§ 35.05 LOCALLY OWNED, MINORITY OWNED, FEMALE OWNED AND SMALL BUSINESSES.
   Efforts will be made and documented to solicit participation of locally
owned, minority owned, female owned and small businesses. Where feasible,
evaluation criteria will include a factor with an appropriate weight for these
firms. A list of locally owned, minority owned, female owned and small
businesses and also minority businesses located within the trade region shall
be maintained and utilized when issuing IFBs, RFPs and RFQs. This list shall
also be consulted when making small purchases.
(1997 Code, § 245.5) (Ord. 92-019, passed 10-14-1992)
§ 35.06 CODE OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   Conflict of interest.  
      (1)   No elected official, employee or designated agent of the city will
take part or have an interest in the award of any procurement transaction if a
conflict of interest, real or apparent, exists.
      (2)   A conflict of interest occurs when the officials, employee or
designated agent of the city, partners of such individuals, immediate family
member or an organization which employs or intends to employ any of the above
has a financial or other interest in any of the competing firms.
   (B)   Acceptance of gratuities. No elected official, employee or designated
agent of the city shall solicit or accept gratuities, favors or anything of
monetary value from contractors, potential contractors, subcontractors or
potential subcontractors.
(1997 Code, § 245.6) (Ord. 92-019, passed 10-14-1992) Penalty, see §
35.99
VOLUNTEER WORK ON CITY PROPERTY
§ 35.20 APPROVAL REQUIRED TO PERFORM VOLUNTEER WORK PROJECTS ON CITY PROPERTY.
   Any person or group desiring to perform volunteer work on city property
shall be required to follow the instructions of the City's Mayor or his or her
designee in performing that work, and shall be required to complete and sign a
volunteer waiver and liability release before any work is performed. The Park
Manager shall be considered a designee unless specifically excluded by the
Mayor or City Council. Other designees may be named by the Mayor or City
Council.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 4-6-09; Am. Ord. 2020-008, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 35.21 COMPLETION OF THE VOLUNTEER WAIVER AND LIABILITY RELEASE FORM.
   The city establishes this release form to be completed and signed before any
work on behalf of the city is performed. The release form shall be agreed to by
each volunteer who will be working, shall be signed by them, and shall be
collected by the city's designee who supervises the volunteers; and submitted
by the designee to the City Clerk at the earliest opportunity. The waiver and
liability release shall remain in effect for the time period stated in it, so
that completion of an additional release shall not be required before the
expiration date.
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 35.22 VOLUNTEER WORK SUPERVISION.
   Volunteer work projects shall be supervised by an appropriate designee, who
has been approved by the City Council or by the Mayor. The designee may be an
employee of the city, or may be a volunteer selected by the city for the
purposes of coordinating and supervising volunteers to perform work for the
good of the city and its citizens.
(Ord. 2020-008, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any elected official, employee or designated agent of the city
who knowingly and deliberately violates the provisions of §§
35.01 through
35.06 will be open to civil suit by the citizens of the city without the legal
protection of the city. Furthermore, such a violation of these procurement
standards is grounds for dismissal by the city.
      (2)   Any contractor or potential contractor who knowingly and
deliberately violates the provisions of these procurement standards will be
barred from future transactions with the city.
(1997 Code, § 245.7) (Ord. 92-019, passed 10-14-1992)
CHAPTER 36: ETHICAL CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Title
   
36.02   Legislative findings
   
36.03   Purpose and authority
   
36.04   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
36.15   Conflict of interest in general
   
36.16   Conflict of interest in contract
   
36.17   Receipt of gifts
   
36.18   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
36.19   Representation of interests before city government
   
36.20   Misuse of confidential information
   
36.21   Post-employment restriction
   
36.22   Honoraria
   
36.23   Nepotism prohibited
Financial Disclosure
   
36.35   Who must file
   
36.36   When to file statements; amended statements
   
36.37   Form of statement
   
36.38   Control and maintenance of statements of financial interest
   
36.39   Contents of statement
   
36.40   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Enforcement
   
36.50   Board of Ethics created
   
36.51   Alternate members
   
36.52   Facilities and staff
   
36.53   Powers and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
36.54   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
36.55   Notice of hearings
   
36.56   Hearing procedure
   
36.57   Appeals
   
36.58   Limitation of actions
   
36.59   Advisory opinions
   
36.60   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
36.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Code of Ethics
for the City of Midway, Kentucky" or this chapter.
   (B)   Effective date of this chapter is January 1, 1995.
(1997 Code, § 160.1) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.02 LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   The City Council of the City of Midway declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public's confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interests and public duties of the city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(1997 Code, § 160.2) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to the requirements of KRS 65.003.
(1997 Code, § 160.3) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Board of Ethics which
is created by interlocal governmental agreement between the local governments,
and is vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city's code of ethics.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in CANDIDATE with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Midway, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child (including a stepchild), brother,
sister, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent
or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer's or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer's or employee's spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is 1 of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk/Treasurer;
      (4)   The City Administrator; or
      (5)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080.
(1997 Code, § 160.4) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 36.15 CONFLICT OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family
member, has a financial interest; and
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in
subsection (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body.
(1997 Code, § 161.1) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.16 CONFLICT OF INTEREST IN CONTRACT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall directly or
through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply to
contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city
office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency
office, or before an employee was hired by the city or a city agency. However,
if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer or employee
before he or she became a candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as
an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes the
appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in division
(A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply if
the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the
officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract, unless the requirements set forth in division (A)(3)
below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in division (A) of this section shall not apply in
any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city
agency that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interest
of the public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply or
other specific reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(1997 Code, § 161.2) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.17 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift,
whether in the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment,
hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which
it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was intended to influence, or
could reasonably be expected to influence the officer or employee in the
performance of his or her public duties.
(1997 Code, § 161.3) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.18 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; and/or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that the use is available to the general public.
(1997 Code, § 161.4) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.19 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(1997 Code, § 161.5) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.20 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(1997 Code, § 161.6) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.21 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of 1 year after the termination of the officer's or
employee's service with the city or city agency.
(1997 Code, § 161.7) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.22 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer's or employee's activities outside of
city service and is unrelated to the officer's or employee's service with the
city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and not primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any
other person.
(1997 Code, § 161.8) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.23 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the following with regard to a family member to an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
   (E)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to temporary summer
or other seasonal employment of persons under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 95-03, passed 6-9-1995)
(1997 Code, § 163.1)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 36.35 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officers;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office; and
   (C)   City-appointed members of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(1997 Code, § 162.1) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.36 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   All statements of financial interest required by this section shall be
filed with the Woodford County Court Clerk no later than 4:00 p.m., June 30 of
each year for the preceding calendar year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the filing deadline for the office for which the
person becomes a candidate.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
(1997 Code, § 162.2) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.37 FORM OF STATEMENT.
   The statement of financial interests shall fully conform and comply with the
statement of financial interests adopted by the city and made part of and
attached to this code of ethics. The Woodford County Court Clerk shall deliver
a copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than June 30 of each year. All
candidates for elected county office as defined herein shall be given a copy of
the financial disclosure statement at the time of his or her filing for office
along with notice that the statement shall be filed within 30 days of the
filing deadline date. The failure of the Clerk to deliver a copy of that form
to any officer or employee or candidate shall not relieve the officer or
employee or candidate of the obligation to file the statement.
(1997 Code, § 162.3) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.38 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   (A)   The Woodford County Court Clerk shall be the official custodian of the
statements of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance
of the statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interests
shall be maintained by the Clerk as the custodian, as public documents,
available for public inspection and copying immediately upon filing.
   (B)   Upon the expiration of 3 years after a person ceases to be an officer
or employee of the city, the County Clerk shall cause to be destroyed any
statements of financial interests or copies of those statements filed by the
person.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall provide candidates for elected city office with
a copy of the financial disclosure statement at the time of his or her filing
for office, along with notice that the statement shall be filed within 30 days
of the filing deadline.
   (D)   Upon the expiration of 30 days after any election at which a candidate
for elected city office was not elected or was eliminated from the ballot for
the general election, the County Clerk shall cause to be destroyed any
statements of financial interests or copies of those statements filed by the
person.
(1997 Code, § 162.4) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.39 CONTENTS OF STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, office sought or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and the filer's spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer's immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission,
dividend, retirement fund distribution and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past 3 years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city in which the filer or any member of the filer's
immediate family had at any time during the preceding calendar year an interest
of $10,000 at fair market value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential or rural, and the location
of all real property within Woodford County, other than the filer's primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer's immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or the filer's
immediate family during the preceding calendar year; and
      (9)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $5,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal, family or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific amounts nor the names of individual clients
or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(1997 Code, § 162.5) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.40 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
division (A) of this section within the time period established in the notice
shall be guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed
by the Board in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, with each day's
delinquency being considered a separate offense, and there being no limit on
the amount the fine may reach. Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this
section may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if
the offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within the prescribed period
of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 162.6) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
36.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 36.50 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   The Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Board of Ethics, a body created
by interlocal governmental agreement between the City of Versailles, the City
of Midway and the Woodford County Fiscal Court, shall have the authorities,
duties and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Board of Ethics shall consist of
5 members who, by agreement with the Versailles City Council and the Woodford
County Fiscal Court, shall be appointed by the executive authority of Woodford
County and the Cities of Versailles and Midway, subject to the approval of the
respective legislative body. Woodford County and the City of Versailles shall
have 2 representatives on the Board of Ethics, and the City of Midway shall
have 1 representative, all being approved by the respective legislative bodies.
No member of the Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed office,
whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the county or any
county agency. The members shall serve for a term of 3 years; all appointments
shall be for a term of 3 years. The county and cities shall agree on the
initial terms of the respective appointments for each. Each member of the Board
of Ethics appointed by the city shall have been a resident of the city for at
least 1 year prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in the city
throughout the term in office. The members of the Board of Ethics shall be
chosen by virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and
their knowledge of local government affairs. The members shall be limited to 1
term of service.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the appointing
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body, for
misconduct, inability or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the
Board of Ethics is removed from office under this section, the member shall be
afforded the opportunity for a hearing before the executive authority and the
legislative body.
   (D)   City vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days
by the executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body. If
a vacancy is not filled by the executive authority within 60 days, the
remaining members of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies
shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation,
unless otherwise approved by the legislative body, but shall be reimbursed for
all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall annually elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written expense of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of 3 or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of 3 or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a
quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(1997 Code, § 164.1) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.51 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of the legislative
body, may appoint 2 alternate members of the Board of Ethics who may be called
upon to serve when any regular member of the Board is unable to discharge his
or her duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term of 1 year.
Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to all the
requirements of this chapter that apply to regular members.
(1997 Code, § 164.2) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.52 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative bodies in
their annual budgets, the city shall assist in providing the Board of Ethics,
either directly or by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials,
supplies and staff needed for the conduct of its business. Legal services for
the Board of Ethics shall be provided, on a rotating quarterly basis, by the
Woodford County Attorney and the City Attorneys for Versailles and Midway,
Kentucky.
(1997 Code, § 164.3) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.53 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigation and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and, to the extent the city may now or hereafter
have such delegable powers, to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violation of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of the city agency, the City Attorney, the Woodford County Attorney or other
appropriate person or body, as necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency offices and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To annually review all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
complete and in compliance and are available for public inspection and copying
in the Woodford County Court Clerk's Office, in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act, being KRS
61.870 to 61.884;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(1997 Code, § 164.4) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.54 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within 10 working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within 10 working days to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth's Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government, issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer
or employee concerning the alleged violation and provide a copy of the
confidential reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the
city or city agency; or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the county or any county agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(1997 Code, § 164.5) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.55 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date. The
order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any pertinent
regulations of the Board relating to the hearing, shall be sent to the alleged
violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is issued.
(1997 Code, § 164.6) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.56 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body
of the city or city agency with which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and/or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth's Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(1997 Code, § 164.7) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.57 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board at the
public hearing.
(1997 Code, § 164.8) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.58 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within 1 year after
the violation is discovered.
(1997 Code, § 164.9) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.59 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requester.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, being KRS 61.870 to 61.884, to establish criteria under which it
will issue confidential advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be
public documents, except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it
shall be modified so that the identity of any person associated with the
opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requests the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance of any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(1997 Code, § 164.10) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.60 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use or threaten to use any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of the
city, county or the commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual
or suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if any officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(1997 Code, § 164.11) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
falls to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion or other disciplinary action
by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other officer
or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to remove or
discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter shall be
taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the city
and all applicable laws of the commonwealth.
(1997 Code, § 164.12) (Ord. passed 12-5-1994)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL
Section
   
37.01   Personnel policy
   
37.02   Application of chapter
   
37.03   Reference to City Clerk/Treasurer/Administrator
   
37.04   Administration
   
37.05   Status of present employees
   
37.06   Retirement plan
§ 37.01 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   The City Council shall establish a written personnel policy applicable to
city employees, which may be from time to time amended by the City Council.
(Ord. 03-10, passed 9-2-2003; Am. Ord. 2009-22, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 37.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   These policies and procedures apply to all city employees, except in
instances when approved departmental regulations or the Kentucky Revised
Statutes supercede.
(1997 Code, § 230.1) (Ord. passed 12-9-1985)
§ 37.03 REFERENCE TO CITY CLERK/TREASURER/ADMINISTRATOR.
   All references in this chapter of policies and procedures, classification
plan, compensation plan and job descriptions to the City Clerk/Treasurer/
Administrator shall refer to that city employee denominated as Administrator in
the event the position of City Clerk/Treasurer and the position of
Administrator are held by different persons.
(1997 Code, § 230.1A) (Ord. passed 2-5-1990)
§ 37.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Mayor is the Chief Administrative Officer of the city. With the
exception of matters and appointments reserved to the Council by statutory
provisions, the authority and responsibility for the conduct and administration
of all functions of the city and of its departments is vested in the Mayor.
Under the overall guidance of the Mayor, final authority, in the form of review
and approval, is reserved by the Council with regard to all personnel matters
and subjects covered by these policies and procedures.
   (B)   The Mayor's designee for personnel functions in the city is the City
Clerk/Treasurer/ Administrator.
(1997 Code, § 230.3) (Ord. passed 12-9-1985)
§ 37.05 STATUS OF PRESENT EMPLOYEES.
   An employee who holds a full-time position with the city on the effective
date of this chapter shall:
   (A)   Have permanent status on the effective date of the revised provisions
if he or she held the position throughout the previous 6 months; or
   (B)   Not have permanent status unless he or she has held the position for 6
months preceding the effective date of this revised chapter.
(1997 Code, § 230.4) (Ord. passed 12-9-1985)
§ 37.06 RETIREMENT PLAN.
   (A)   City to participate in County Employees Retirement System.  The city
is authorized to participate in the County Employees Retirement System
effective July 1, 1993, and all eligible regular full-time officers and
employees of the city are authorized and directed to comply with the statutory
requirements of this retirement system.
   (B)   Eligible participants. All city employees whose duties require an
average of 100 hours during each working month shall be considered as regular
full-time employees for purposes of participation in the retirement system,
except those persons who are employed as temporary, part-time and seasonal
workers, as defined in KRS 78.510(21).
(1997 Code, § 237.0) (Ord. 93-015, passed 6-21-1993)
CHAPTER 38: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
38.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
38.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
38.17   Public records not immediately available
   
38.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
38.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
38.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
38.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
38.22   Format of copies
   
38.23   Fees for copies
   
38.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
38.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
38.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
38.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOOKING PHOTOGRAPH AND PHOTOGRAPHIC RECORD OF INMATE. A photograph or image
of an individual generated by law enforcement for identification purposes when
the individual is booked into a detention facility as defined in KRS 520.010 or
photograph and image of an inmate taken pursuant to KRS 196.099.
(KRS 61.870(9))
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to the action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
(KRS 61.870(4))
   CUSTODIAN.  
      (1)   The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
(KRS 61.870(6))
      (2)   The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of most of the public records
of this city is the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
(KRS 61.870(8))
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
(KRS 61.870(7))
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.  
      (1)   The chief administrative officer or any other officer or employee
of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and keeping of
public records, regardless of whether the records are in his or her actual
personal custody and control.
(KRS 61.870(5))
      (2)   The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY.  
      (1)   Every state or local government officer;
      (2)   Every state or local government department, division, bureau,
board, commission and authority;
      (3)   Every state or local legislative board, commission, committee and
officer;
      (4)   Every county and city governing body, council, school district
board, special district board and municipal corporation;
      (5)   Every state or local court or judicial agency;
      (6)   Every state or local government agency, including the policy-making
board of an institution of education, created by or pursuant to state or local
statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution or other legislative act;
      (7)   Any body created by state or local authority in any branch of
government;
      (8)   Any body which, within any fiscal year, derives at least 25% of its
funds expended by it in the Commonwealth of Kentucky from state or local
authority funds. However, any funds derived from a state or local authority in
compensation for goods or services that are provided by a contract obtained
through a public competitive procurement process shall not be included in the
determination of whether a body is a public agency under this division;
      (9)   Any entity where the majority of its governing body is appointed by
a public agency as defined in this division; by a member or employee of such a
public agency; or by any combination thereof;
      (10)   Any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council or agency, except for a committee of a hospital
medical staff, established, created and controlled by a public agency as
defined in this division; and
      (11)   Any interagency body of 2 or more public agencies where each
public agency is defined in this division.
(KRS 61.870(1))
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency discussed in division (8) of
PUBLIC AGENCY, above that are not related to functions, activities, programs,
or operations funded by state or local authority.
(KRS 61.870(2))
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect and/or copy
public records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency's computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870(3))
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 38.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of this city
shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer
during regular office hours, except during legal holidays. The official
custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority of the official
custodian, may require a request to inspect public records to be in writing,
signed by the applicant and with the applicant's name printed legibly on the
application. A written request to inspect public records may be presented by
hand delivery, mail or via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with this chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870 to
61.884, and the requested public records are immediately available, the
custodian shall deliver the records for inspection. A person may inspect public
records at the designated office of the city during the regular office hours,
or in appropriate cases, by receiving copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the city,
suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer or in another office of the city as determined by the official
custodian or custodian for the inspection. No person shall remove original
copies of public records from the offices of the city without the written
permission of the official custodian of the record. When public records are
inspected at the city offices, the person inspecting the records shall have the
right to make abstracts and memoranda of the public records and to obtain
copies of all written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian
may require advance payment of the prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
Statutory reference:
   Right to inspection, limitations, see KRS 61.872(1) - (3)
§ 38.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency's public records.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 38.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed 5 days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays) from
receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is given
for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the public
record will be available for inspection.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 38.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 38.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within 5 days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request
and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the 5-day
period of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in part,
inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific exception
authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the
exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued by the
official custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute final
agency action.
(KRS 61.880(1))
§ 38.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 38.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
38.26 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 38.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
38.26. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
the duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches in at least 1 color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and the format conforms
to the requestor's requirements, the public record may be provided in this
alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2))
§ 38.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   Noncommercial purposes.  The public agency may prescribe a reasonable
fee for making copies of nonexempt public records requested for use for
noncommercial purposes which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction,
including the costs of the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by
the public agency, but not including the cost of staff required. If a public
agency is asked to produce a record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor
the format to meet the request of an individual or a group, the public agency
may at its discretion provide the requested format and recover staff costs as
well as any actual costs incurred.
(KRS 61.874(3))
   (B)   Commercial purposes.
      (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) of this section may be
based on 1 or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(4))
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
38.25
§ 38.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
38.23(B)(2);
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 38.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
38.23(B).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 38.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to the agency, or required
by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as required by state
law;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (b) above
shall not apply to records, the disclosure or publication of which is directed
by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law; and
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics, maps
or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating, utility
or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased or
maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law;
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chs. 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Ch. 31.
      (17)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in KRS 15.409.
      (18)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
      (19)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
(KRS 61.878(1))
   (B)   (1)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person.
(KRS 61.878(2))
      (2)   In addition, if any public record contains material which is not
excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and make the
non-excepted material available for examination, subject to the possible
applicability of §
38.18.
(KRS 61.878(4))
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
(KRS 61.878(5))
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. These records
shall include but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(KRS 61.878(3))
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(18) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878(6))
§ 38.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
         
51.   GARBAGE REGULATIONS
         
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
         
53.   SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
50.01   Charges for municipal utilities
   
50.02   Discontinuance of water service for failure to timely pay water and
sewer charges
   
50.03   Inspections required prior to change of water or sewer service
   
50.04   Extension of city water and sewer service
§ 50.01 CHARGES FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   (A)   Rates to be set by City Council. Water, sewer and garbage rates shall
be set by the City Council by ordinance amending this or extending this title.
   (B)   Charges to be collected by City Clerk/Treasurer. Charges for water,
sewer and garbage services shall be collected by the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(1997 Code, § 610.0) (Ord. passed 4-9-1984)
§ 50.02 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE FOR FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY WATER AND
SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   Each customer of the city water and sewer system shall timely pay the
charges established by the city for water and sewer use.
   (B)   The city shall send a bill for water and sewer charges to each
customer by United States mail to the address appearing on the city's records
for that customer. The bill shall set forth the date on which payment is due.
   (C)   In the event that a customer does not pay the bill by the designated
due date, then the city shall send by United States mail to the address
appearing on the city's records for that customer a reminder notice that the
bill remains due. The reminder notice shall further state that, in the event
that payment is not received by the city within a specified number of working
days (that is, excluding Saturday, Sunday and legal holidays), then water
service for that customer will be terminated. The number of days within which
payment must be received by the city in order to avoid termination of service
shall not be less than 5 working days (that is, excluding Saturday, Sunday and
legal holidays). In the event payment is not received by the city within the
designated number of working days, then water service to the customer shall be
terminated.
   (D)   Any water service that has been terminated pursuant to the provisions
of this section shall not be resumed until the customer has paid all charges
due plus any reconnect fee required by the city code of ordinances.
   (E)   Water service shall not be reconnected after normal business hours
except in emergency situations. In the event payment is received by the city
too late on a working day in order for the city to reconnect service during
regular business hours, or payment is received in the city's night deposit box
after regular business hours, then water service will be restored as early as
possible on the following working day (that is, excluding Saturday, Sunday and
legal holidays), during regular business hours.
   (F)   In emergency situations, upon payment of a $25 service charge in
addition to the amount due plus any reconnection fee, the city will endeavor to
have water service resumed as soon as possible, depending on the availability
of a city employee to perform the service.
   (G)   In the event that a customer has had a check returned for insufficient
funds within 3 years, the customer must make any payment for water or sewer
service, reconnect fee or emergency fee by cash, money order or certified
check.
(Ord. 2002-014, passed 8-19-2002)
§ 50.03 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED PRIOR TO CHANGE OF WATER OR SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   Prior to any change in service by the city water or sewer system of
any residential or business customer, the city shall inspect the service to
determine whether all connections to the city sewer system are in accordance
with city ordinances. No change in service shall be permitted without this
inspection.
   (B)   In the event an inspection discloses a connection to the city sewer
system that is not permitted by the city ordinances, the City Administrator
shall send the owner of the property a written notice that this connection
exists and that water and sewer services to the premises will be discontinued
30 days after the date of the notice unless the sewer connection is brought
into compliance with the city ordinances regarding the connections.
   (C)   In the event the owner of the property fails to bring the connection
to the city sewer system into compliance with the applicable city ordinances
within 30 days after the date of the written notice to the property owner, all
water and sewer services to the premises shall be discontinued until the
connection to the city sewer system is brought into compliance with the city
ordinances regarding these connections.
   (D)   The employees of the city shall have such access to all property
served by the city water and sewer system, and all improvements located
thereon, as may be necessary to conduct the inspections described in this
section. The inspections shall be at reasonable times and upon reasonable
notice to the owner of the property or the tenant thereof.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by any action of the city under this section may
appeal the action to the City Council.
(Ord. 98-001, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 50.04 EXTENSION OF CITY WATER AND SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   If an applicant for new water and/or sewer service by the City of
Midway pays to the city the cost of extending any requested water and/or sewer
line(s) to the applicant's property, the applicant shall be entitled to a
refund of all costs for such extension greater than 100 feet from the point of
beginning on a pro-rated basis for each additional customer whose service line
is directly connected to such extension line paid for by the applicant. The
refund period shall extend for a period of 10 years, and in no case shall the
refund amount exceed the amount paid by the applicant.
   (B)   No refund shall in any instance be paid to an applicant for utility
improvements to the applicant's property when the applicant subdivides and
develops his property pursuant to and in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Versailles/Midway/Woodford County Planning Commission.
   (C)   No applicant shall be entitled to a refund for the cost of an
extension as provided above unless all of the following occur:
      (1)   The applicant makes a written request to the city for the
extension; and,
      (2)   The application is accompanied by applicant engineering estimate
based on city and Planning Commission specifications of the cost for the
extension; and,
      (3)   The application is accompanied by certified or cashier's check
payable to the city equal to the engineering estimate; and,
      (4)   The city publicly bids the project, hiring a contractor pursuant to
such bid, and funds the project with applicant funds, including engineering and
inspection costs; and,
      (5)   Upon completion of the project, an audit will be performed by the
city. If the cost exceeds the applicant estimate, the applicant shall pay to
the city the difference within 30 days after receipt of billing. If the cost is
less than the applicant estimate, applicant shall be refunded the excess amount
within 30 days after completion of the audit; and,
      (6)   Refunds will be made to the applicant within 30 days after receipt
of payment by the city from additional customers whose service line is directly
connected to such extension line.
(Ord. 2008-17, passed 12-19-2008)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
Garbage Collection
   
51.15   Placement of garbage for disposal; prohibition
   
51.16   Collection procedure
   
51.17   Items excluded from collection
   
51.18   Service limited to garbage generated by subscriber
   
51.19   Permission required to deposit in private receptacle
   
51.20   Deposit in city-owned receptacles unless for public use
Solid Waste; Dumpsters
   
51.30   Solid waste disposal
   
51.31   Property owner to maintain dumpster
   
51.32   Hot embers, coals and hazardous waste prohibited
   
51.33   Placement of garbage and trash from premises
   
51.34   Permit required on rights-of-way
   
51.35   Placement in dumpster without permission
Rates and Charges
   
51.45   Garbage collection rates
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Refuse and waste matters of all kinds, including wet garbage,
ashes, discarded cans and other materials, excluding medical waste.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Includes but is not limited to bodily fluids or items
contaminated with bodily fluids, needles or other objects defined by federal
regulations as a biological hazard.
   SUBSCRIBER. Every household and business within the city limits lawfully
receiving city garbage services.
(1997 Code, § 660.0) (Ord. 95-10, passed 12-18-1995)
GARBAGE COLLECTION
§ 51.15 PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE FOR DISPOSAL; PROHIBITION.
   No person shall dump, dispose of, leave or place or cause to be dumped or
disposed of, left or placed upon the property of the city within any street
right-of-way any trash, junk, debris, rubbish or any other waste material of
any kind, except on designated days for garbage collection.
(1997 Code, § 660.0) (Ord. 95-10, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 COLLECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Residential garbage pickup within the city limits will be carried out
once weekly by the contractor selected by the city and shall apply only to
garbage placed in front of the subscriber’s residence.
   (B)   Business garbage pickup within the city limits will be carried out
twice weekly by the contractor selected by the city and shall apply only to
garbage placed in front of the establishment, except as otherwise authorized by
the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   All garbage shall be deposited for collection between the sidewalk and
curb line of the subscriber’s property and not in the city streets.
   (D)   Residential and business garbage customers shall not deposit garbage
or recycling for collection earlier than 5:00 p.m. the day before the scheduled
day for collection.
   (E)   Residential customers shall remove garbage receptacles from the city's
right-of-way in front of their residence within 24 hours of collection.
Business garbage customers shall remove garbage receptacles from the city's
right-of-way in front of their establishment no later than 10:00 a.m. the day
of collection, or immediately following collection if collection is later than
10:00 a.m.
   (F)   Medical waste of each and every type shall be excluded from city
collection.
(1997 Code, § 660.0) (Ord. 95-10, passed 12-18-1995; Am. Ord. 2005-05, passed
6-6-2005; Am. Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-2-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-20, passed 10-5-
2009)
§ 51.17 ITEMS EXCLUDED FROM COLLECTION.
   The following items shall be excluded from the city's garbage collection
service:
   (A)   Liquid waste, sewage, human waste, rocks, dirt, tires, oil, batteries
or paint in liquid form;
   (B)   Refuse left over from building construction or demolition;
   (C)   Large appliances or items of furniture, including but not limited to
hot water heaters, refrigerators, stoves, washing machines, dryers and sofas;
and
   (D)   Any material that is beyond the physical safety limitations of the
city's garbage contractor.
(1997 Code, § 660.0) (Ord. 95-10, passed 12-18-1995)
§ 51.18 SERVICE LIMITED TO GARBAGE GENERATED BY SUBSCRIBER.
   Garbage collection services provided by the city shall be limited to that
garbage generated by a subscriber household or business at the subscriber's
household or business establishment. It shall be unlawful for any person to
deposit garbage not generated by a subscriber household or subscriber business
for city collection.
(1997 Code, § 660.0) (Ord. 95-10, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 PERMISSION REQUIRED TO DEPOSIT IN PRIVATE RECEPTACLE.
   No person shall deposit garbage into private garbage receptacles without the
owner's permission.
(1997 Code, § 660.0) (Ord. 95-10, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 DEPOSIT IN CITY-OWNED RECEPTACLES UNLESS FOR PUBLIC USE.
   No person shall deposit garbage into public garbage receptacles, except
those public receptacles designated as public receptacles for garbage
collection.
(1997 Code, § 660.0) (Ord. 95-10, passed 12-18-1995) Penalty, see §
51.99
SOLID WASTE; DUMPSTERS
§ 51.30 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The City Council has contracted at a set rate with a private approved
solid waste collector on behalf of all the residents and businesses of the
city.
   (B)   All residences and businesses within the city corporate limits shall
be charged a waste collection fee.
   (C)   Enforcement of nonpayment of the waste collection fee by the city
shall be by the city's right to discontinue water service to the residence or
business.
   (D)   Any business that the city has not contracted on behalf of shall
provide the city with sufficient evidence that the business has contracted
privately with an approved solid waste collector.
(1997 Code, § 830.1)
Cross-reference:
   Discontinuance of water for failure to pay water and sewer, see §
50.02
§ 51.31 PROPERTY OWNER TO MAINTAIN DUMPSTER.
   All dumpsters located within the city shall be maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition and shall be cleaned by the owner of the property upon which
the dumpster is located as often as may be necessary to prevent the dumpster
from becoming malodorous. Litter and debris shall not be allowed or permitted
to accumulate around the dumpster, and all refuse shall be deposited in a
manner as to prevent it from blowing out of the dumpster. Dumpsters with ragged
edges or serious rust problems will not be permitted.
(1997 Code, § 831.1) (Ord. 92-03, passed 3-2-1992)
§ 51.32 HOT EMBERS, COALS AND HAZARDOUS WASTE PROHIBITED.
   Ashes containing hot embers or coals shall not be placed in dumpsters. No
waste requiring special handling shall be placed in dumpsters.
(1997 Code, § 831.2) (Ord. 92-03, passed 3-2-1992)
§ 51.33 PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE AND TRASH FROM PREMISES.
   It shall be the duty of owners, proprietors, occupants and persons in charge
of the buildings being serviced by a dumpster within the city to place, or
cause to be placed, all garbage and trash accumulating on or within the
premises into the dumpster.
(1997 Code, § 831.3) (Ord. 92-03, passed 3-2-1992)
§ 51.34 PERMIT REQUIRED ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No dumpster shall be placed in any right-of-way owned by the city without a
permit from the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(1997 Code, § 831.4) (Ord. 92-03, passed 3-2-1992)
§ 51.35 PLACEMENT IN DUMPSTER WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation or other entity to place
trash, refuse or other material in a dumpster not owned or leased by him or her
without permission from the owner or lessor.
(1997 Code, § 831.6) (Ord. 92-03, passed 3-2-1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.45 GARBAGE COLLECTION RATES.
   The rate for garbage service, which is to be collected by the City Clerk/
Treasurer, is hereby set forth as follows:
   (A)   Residential customers (one pickup per week): $14.95 per month;
   (B)    Business customers (two pickups per week): $35 per month; and
   (C)   Churches and non-profit organizations subscribing to the service will
be charged the business customer rate, unless the church requests in writing to
be charged the residential customer rate in which event the church will receive
only 1 pickup per week.
   (D)   A non-profit organization seeking the residential rate is required to
provide proof to the city of tax exempt or non-profit status.
(1997 Code, § 612.0) (Ord. passed 5-14-1979; Am. Ord. passed 4-9-1984; Am. Ord.
passed 8-20-1990; Am. Ord. 95-06, passed 9-5-1995; Am. Ord. 97-13, passed 12-1-
1997; Am. Ord. 03-08, passed 6-16-2003; Am. Ord. 2007-004, passed 3-5-2007; Am.
Ord. 2015-001, passed 5-18-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-003, passed 6-6-2016; Am. Ord.
2017-03, passed 5-15-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-005, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
51.16,
51.18,
51.19 or
51.20 shall, upon conviction, be subjected to a fine of not more than $50. Each
day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and is punishable as such hereunder.
(1997 Code, § 660.0) (Ord. 95-10, passed 12-18-1995)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who fails to perform the duties required by him or
her of the provisions of §§
51.30 through
51.35 shall be fined $10 for each violation and each day of continuance of any
such violation shall constitute a separate offense. However, no fine shall be
imposed unless the violation continues to exist after 48 hours' advance notice
from the City Clerk/Treasurer.
(1997 Code, § 831.5)
      (2)   Any person who violates §
51.35 shall be subject to a fine of $25. Each deposit of trash or refuse shall
constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 831.6) (Ord. 92-03, passed 3-2-1992)
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
Water Service
   
52.01   Prohibition of foreign contact with city hoses and equipment
   
52.02   Backflow devices required for cross-connections
   
52.03   Sump pumps
   
52.04   Prohibited uses of bulk water
Fees and Charges
   
52.15   Deposit required for water service
   
52.16   Restoring water service
   
52.17   Surcharge on rates for third-party billing
   
52.18   Water service rates
   
52.19   Fee for water connection
   
52.20   Water bill adjustment
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Discontinuance of water service for late water and sewer charges, see §
50.02
WATER SERVICE
§ 52.01 PROHIBITION OF FOREIGN CONTACT WITH CITY HOSES AND EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person using water facilities provided by the
city to allow any of the city's hoses and other equipment to come in contact
with tanks or other water storage facilities that contain or have contained
chemicals or substances other than water.
(1997 Code, § 615.1) (Ord. passed 6-11-1979) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 BACKFLOW DEVICES REQUIRED FOR CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Cross-connection endangering city water supply prohibited. The
installation or maintenance of any cross-connection which would endanger the
water supply of the city is hereby prohibited. Any such cross-connection now
existing or hereafter installed is hereby declared unlawful and shall be abated
immediately.
   (B)   Installation, maintenance of cross-connections governed by KAR and
city manual. The installation, maintenance, control, inspection and elimination
of cross-connections shall be in accordance with the Kentucky Public and
Semipublic Water Supplies Regulations (401 KAR 6:015), Section 2, Item 5. The
policies, procedures and criteria for determining appropriate levels of
protection shall be in accordance with the city cross-connection manual, a copy
of which shall be kept with the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   Approved backflow devices required.  Water service to any premises
shall be contingent upon the customer providing cross-connection control in a
manner approved by the city. Backflow devices required to be installed shall be
a model approved by the city.
   (D)   City employees authorized to inspect. Authorized employees of the city
with proper identification shall have access at reasonable hours and upon
reasonable notice to all parts of a premises or within buildings to which water
is supplied. Water service may be refused or terminated to any premises for
failure to allow necessary inspections or to abate an unlawful cross-
connection.
(1997 Code, § 615.2) (Ord. 92-02, passed 3-2-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 SUMP PUMPS.
   (A)   Sump pumps permitted within city system. Auxiliary pumps, commonly
referred to as sump pumps, may be used and maintained for the purpose of
pumping the water that is registered and calculated by the city meter system.
Under no conditions may the pumps be used and maintained for the purpose of
pumping foreign water or matter through the city sewer system.
   (B)   Sump pumps to be registered. All these auxiliary pumps shall be
registered with the Clerk/Treasurer at the time of connection. The usage and
maintenance of the pumps for the purpose of pumping meter water shall entitle
city officials to periodically inspect the pumps for the purpose of determining
whether they comply with reasonable state, county and city sanitation and
health requirements.
(1997 Code, § 615.3) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 PROHIBITED USES OF BULK WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, organization or business organization
to use the bulk water acquisition facility to wash, rinse, drain or flush any
person, animal or property.
(1997 Code, § 615.4) (Ord. 610.10, passed 7-12-1982) Penalty, see §
52.99
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 52.15 DEPOSIT REQUIRED FOR WATER SERVICE.
   The following policies shall apply to water service deposits and water
service billing:
   (A)   All persons becoming water service customers with no prior water
service payment history shall be required to post a deposit for water service
in accordance with the deposit schedule adopted by the City Council.
   (B)   Any water service customers not owning the premises being served by
the Water Department shall keep a fully paid water service deposit with the
City Clerk/Treasurer at all times.
   (C)   Any water service customer owning the property being served by the
Water Department shall receive a refund of his or her deposit after 12
continuous months of on-time payment of all water service bills presented by
and paid to the City of Midway.
   (D)   Transfer of water service from one property location to another
property location by the same property owner/customer shall not require a new
deposit from a water service customer in good payment status with the Water
Department. GOOD PAYMENT STATUS shall be defined as 12 continuous months of on-
time payment of all water service bills presented by and paid to the City of
Midway. The city shall require a water service deposit from a transferring
customer if that customer is not in good payment status.
   (E)   The customer applying for water service shall have the service placed
in his or her name and shall be responsible for all water, sewer and garbage
charges payable at the meter/service location, regardless of the number of
households of the ultimate users, or regardless of the ultimate user.
   (F)   Any customer for whom a deposit has not been refunded shall have his
or her deposit refunded after ceasing to be a water customer, and after
reduction of the deposit for any outstanding water, sewer or garbage charges.
   (G)   Discontinuance of water service to any location for any reason shall
require the payment of a water service deposit and payment of a water turn-on
fee absent waiver of either or both by the City Council.
   (H)   Any check presented to the city for water service and unpaid after
presentment through normal banking channels to the payor bank shall obligate
the customer presenting the check for a service charge to be determined by the
City Council, in addition to all outstanding charges due for water, sewer or
garbage services.
   (I)   Deposits may be transferred by a customer from 1 location within the
Water Department service area to another location within the service area if
the customer is in good payment status, and if the customer is discontinuing
service at the former location.
   (J)   Any customer aggrieved by the application of the Water Department
policies ordinances may appeal to the City Council for relief. Relief may be
granted by the City Council to any lower income customer where the application
of the policies ordinance would place a financial hardship on such customer.
   (K)   The following fees are established by the City Council:
      (1)   Water deposit, $75;
      (2)   Service charge for dishonored checks, $25; and
      (3)   Water service turn-on fee, $25.
(1997 Code, § 610.3) (Ord. 610.4, passed 6-8-1981; Am. Ord. 610, passed 12-1-
1986; Am. Ord. 92-009, passed 5-4-1992; Am. Ord. 2008-001, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 52.16 RESTORING WATER SERVICE.
   The following fees shall be charged for restoring city water service to
property that has been supplied with city water service in prior years. These
rates do not apply to new service or initial service:
   (A)   Water service has been discontinued for less than 1 year for any
reason other than a repair, a reconnect fee of $15 will be charged;
   (B)   Water service has been discontinued for a period exceeding 1 year but
less than 5 years, $50 fee. In the event a replacement of damaged parts in the
meter or meter box is required, an additional charge shall be made for the
actual cost of the parts; and
   (C)   If the city water service has been discontinued for a period exceeding
5 years, the turn-on fee shall be the same amount as the fee for initial water
installation service.
(1997 Code, § 610.4) (Am. Ord. 92-008, passed 5-4-1992; Am. Ord. 94-001, passed
2-21-1994)
§ 52.17 SURCHARGE ON RATES FOR THIRD-PARTY BILLING.
   (A)   This section shall apply only in the event of purchase of water by the
city from non-city-owned sources.
   (B)   In the event the city purchases water from non-city-owned sources, the
following rates shall apply to water usage by each customer of the City Water
Department:
      (1)   The base water bill for each city water system customer shall be
calculated pursuant to §
52.18;
      (2)   There shall be added to the base water bill for each Midway Water
Department customer a surcharge;
      (3)   The surcharge amount shall be determined by multiplying the base
water bill by the surcharge percentage; and
      (4)   The surcharge percentage shall be determined for each calendar
month as follows:
 
Gallons of water from non-city-owned sources
Total gallons of water usage for the city    x 100.
 
(1997 Code, § 610.2) (Ord. 610.2, passed 10-17-1983)
§ 52.18 WATER SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   The following rates for water usage shall apply to all customers of
the city water services, effective December 1, 2010, with the first meter
reading after enactment of this section:
 
Rate Type              Charge
Minimum rate           $11.64
All over 1,000 gallons $11.30 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Bulk water dispensed at the city bulk water facility shall be at the
cost of $3.56 per 1,000 gallons, with the effective date of this section.
(1997 Code, § 610.1) (Am. Ord. passed 1-7-1980; Am. Ord. passed 4-9-1984; Am.
Ord. passed 9-9-1985; Am. Ord. passed 12-1-1986; Am. Ord. passed 12-5-1988; Am.
Ord. passed 8-14-1989; Am. Ord. passed 7-25-1990; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-1991;
Am. Ord. 92-011, passed 6-1-1992; Am. Ord. 3-10-1993; Am. Ord. 2005-01, passed
1-4-2005; Am. Ord. 2009-14, passed 6-15-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-12, passed 12-20-
2010)
§ 52.19 FEE FOR WATER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The tap on fee for a water connection shall be as follows:
 
Water Meter Size    Cost
5/8 inch - 3/4 inch $850
1 inch              $1,000
1-1/2 - 2 inch      $1,000
3 inch and larger   $2,000
 
   For all water meters larger than one inch, the contractor or owner shall
provide Invensys touch-read meter, labor, and all materials to the city’s
specifications.
(1997 Code, § 610.5) (Ord. passed 12-5-1988; Am. Ord. passed 8-14-1989; Am.
Ord. passed 8-20-1990; Am. Ord. 92-009, passed 5-4-1992; Am. Ord. 2007-002,
passed 3-5-2007)
   (B)   Commercial users such as hospitals, hotels, motels, nursing homes and
the like shall be charged the foregoing rates plus $20 per room for the initial
construction.
(Am. Ord. 99-11, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 52.20 WATER BILL ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   In the event of a leak in the water line of a customer, stemming from
the customer’s connection to the city water line and running up to and
including anywhere on the customer’s premises, an adjustment in the customer’s
water bill may be made on the following conditions:
      (1)   The customer seeking adjustment must present written proof to the
city’s Water and Sewer Superintendent advising of the leak and indicating the
location of the leak;
      (2)   The city’s Water and Sewer Superintendent or his or her assistant
shall be provided the opportunity to inspect the line and location of the leak
before repairs are made; and
      (3)   The customer shall provide the city’s Water and Sewer
Superintendent with written proof verifying that the leak has been repaired
describing the nature of the repair, including materials used and that the
repair was made in compliance with applicable code requirements.
   (B)   Upon proof and compliance with the above, the city may average the
customer’s water bill for the previous 6 water bill periods and bill the
customer at the city rate equal to their average water usage for the previous 6
water bills, and for water delivered and lost greater than the 6 month average
may adjust the bill to be charged at a rate equal to the Kentucky American
Water Company (KAWC) wholesale rate.
   (C)   A customer shall be entitled to an adjustment for water loss due to a
water line leak no more than 1 time during a 12 month period from the date that
proof of verified repair was last made for the premises and the date of
discovery of any later water line leak.
   (D)   Adjustments for water bills shall not be permitted for any customer
where the premises has been unoccupied for longer than 3 months or for any
customer at the address who is delinquent in paying their water bill for more
than 60 days before the water leak is discovered.
   (E)   The final decision on any request for adjustment of a water bill for
leaks shall be made by the city’s Water and Sewer Superintendent with approval
by the City Council.
(Ord. 2014-04, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §
52.01 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $100 for
each violation.
(1997 Code, § 615.1) (Ord. passed 6-11-1979)
   (C)   For a violation of §
52.03 the property owner shall forfeit the right to use and maintain the pumps,
and upon conviction for violation of this section shall be fined not less than
$10 and not more than $100.
(1997 Code, § 615.3)
   (D)   A violation of §
52.04 shall result in a fine of not less than $15 and not more than $100. Each
violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 615.4) (Ord. 610.10, passed 7-12-1982)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Purpose and policy
   
53.002   Use of city water system required
   
53.003   Abbreviations
   
53.004   Definitions
Use of Public Sewers
   
53.015   Mandatory sewer connection
   
53.016   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
53.017   Compliance with laws
   
53.018   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer
   
53.019   Substances which interfere; prohibited substances
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
53.030   Public sewer not available
   
53.031   Requirements for installation
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.045   Permits
   
53.046   Prohibited connections
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
53.060   General conditions
   
53.061   Restricted discharges
   
53.062   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
53.063   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
53.064   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
53.065   Protection from accidental and slug discharges
   
53.066   State requirements
   
53.067   City's right of revision
   
53.068   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
Pretreatment Program Administration
   
53.080   Wastewater discharges
   
53.081   Industrial user discharge permits
   
53.082   Permit modifications
   
53.083   Permit conditions
   
53.084   Permit duration
   
53.085   Permit transfer
   
53.086   Reporting requirements for permittees
   
53.087   Permit violations
   
53.088   Monitoring requirements
   
53.089   Inspection and sampling
   
53.090   Pretreatment
   
53.091   Confidential information
Inspection; Enforcement
   
53.110   Right to enter premises
   
53.111   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
53.112   Access to easement
   
53.113   Safety
   
53.114   Enforcement; general
   
53.115   Enforcement actions
Violations
   
53.130   Written notice
   
53.131   Revocation of permit
   
53.132   Liability
   
53.133   Misrepresentation and/or falsifying of documents
   
53.134   Destruction of POTW and legal action
   
53.135   Judicial action
   
53.136   Termination of service
Fees; Rates and Charges
   
53.150   Recovery of fees and costs
   
53.151   Items included in fee schedule
   
53.152   Costs to be included in charges
   
53.153   Financial management of sewer system; sewer rates
   
53.154   Adjustment of sewer service charges
   
53.155   Adjustment of charges for reasons other than water line breaks
   
53.156   Fee for installation of sewer connection
 
   
53.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Discontinuance of water service for failure to timely pay water and sewer
charges, see §
50.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and
the general Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. § 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain nondomestic users, enforcement of general requirements for all
users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires industrial
user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city's publicly
owned treatment works (POTW). Except as otherwise provided herein, the Public
Works Director shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(1997 Code, § 620.1) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.002 USE OF CITY WATER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, business or industry to use the Midway
Sewer System unless the person, business or industry also uses the Midway Water
System. This prohibition against using the Midway Sewer System by a person,
business or industry which does not use the Midway Water System may be waived
by the City Council upon the showing of good cause at a hearing before the City
Council by any applicant seeking such a waiver.
(1997 Code, § 620.2) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
      ADMI - American Dye Manufacturers Institute.
      BOD - Biochemical oxygen demand.
      C.F.R. - Code of Federal Regulations.
      CWA - Clean Water Act of 1979, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      EPA - Environmental Protection Agency.
      KPDES - Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      l - Liter.
      mg - Milligram.
      mg/l - Milligrams per liter.
      NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      POTW - Publicly owned treatment works.
      SIC - Standard Industrial Classification.
      SWDA - Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. § 6901 et seq.).
      TSS - Total suspended solids.
      U.S.C. - United States Code.
(1997 Code, § 620.4) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet and/or any authorized representative thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.  
      (1)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of a user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively; or
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      (2)   An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of the city may be any person
designated by the city to act on its behalf.
   AVAILABLE. As used in connection with this chapter, means a public sewer
located at the property line or point at which connection may be made with the
city sanitary sewage collection facilities.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures, 5
days at 20º Centigrade expressed in terms of weight and concentration in
milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT. As set forth in §§
53.045 and
53.046.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard. Any regulations containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1347) and 40 C.F.R. § 403 which applies to a specific category of
industrial users.
   CITY.  The City of Midway, its City Council, or the Commission Board or the
Superintendent of the POTW or his or her designee.
   COMBINED SEWER. Any conduit carrying both sanitary sewage and stormwater or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and fecal
coliform bacteria; plus additional pollutants that the POTW is designed to
treat and, in fact, does treat to the degree required by the POTW's NPDES/KPDES
permit.
   COMPOSITE WASTEWATER SAMPLE. A combination of individual samples of water or
wastewater taken at selected intervals, or based on quantity of flow for some
specified period, to minimize the effect of variability of the individual
sample. Individual samples may have equal volume or may be proportioned to the
flow at the time of the sampling.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The term shall refer to the approval authority defined
hereinabove; or the Superintendent of the POTW or his or her designee, if the
city has an approved pretreatment program under the provisions of 40 C.F.R. §
403.11.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Health Department for Woodford County.
   DILUTION STREAM. Any wastewater not generated by a process regulated for the
specific pollutant by a categorical standard under 40 C.F.R., Subchapter N.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewaters directly
to the waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or his or her duly authorized representative of the agency.
   EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   FEDERAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations for pretreatment of
industrial wastewater under 40 C.F.R., Subchapter N and any applicable
regulations, as amended.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a 1-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined in this section.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of pollutants into a
POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
Act, and including tank wastes discharged into the system.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewaters from industrial or commercial processes
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERCEPTOR. A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous and undesirable matter from domestic wastes while
permitting domestic sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer system
or drainage system by gravity. INTERCEPTOR as defined herein is commonly
referred to as a grease, oil or sand trap.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations or that which contributes to a violation of any requirement of
the city's NPDES/KPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge
use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. §
1345) or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et
seq., the Toxic Substance Control Act being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2681 et seq., or more
stringent state criteria (including those obtained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV or SWDA) applicable to the method
of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MAXIMUM DAILY CONCENTRATION. The maximum concentration per day of a
pollutant based on the analytical results obtained from a 24-hour composite
sample.
   MAY. The action referred to is permissive.
   NATIONAL (or KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES/KPDES
PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1332), or a
permit issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under this authority and referred
to as KPDES.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to that source, if
that standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
proposal, a new  source means any source, the construction of which is
commenced after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES. All annual operation and maintenance
expenses including replacement cost related directly to operating and
maintaining the sewage works as shown by annual audit.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the singular
shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural wastes discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. The manmade or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and/or radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT.  The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing the pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process change(s), or other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on a
significant industrial user.
   PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the authority
of § 307(b) of the Act and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWERS. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility. In general, the public sewer shall include the main sewer in the
street and the service branch to the curb  or property line, or a main sewer on
private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the city. This
definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment
plant but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyance not connected to a
facility providing treatment. For the purpose of this chapter POTW shall also
include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the
jurisdiction of the city who are users of the city's POTW.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditure for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works were
designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and waterborne wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. Domestic or sanitary waste shall
mean the liquid or waterborne wastes from residences, commercial buildings and
institutions and is distinct from industrial sewage. The terms SEWAGE and
WASTEWATER are used interchangeably.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM OR WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting,
pumping, treating and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage
system and POTW.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SEWER USER CHARGES. A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement, of the works.
   SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.  Any user of the city's wastewater disposal
system who does any of the following:
      (1)   Is subject to a categorical pretreatment standard(s) under 40
C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N;
      (2)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average workday;
      (3)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the city's wastewater
treatment system;
      (4)   Has in its wastewaters toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to §
307 of the Act or state statutes and rules; or
      (5)   Is found by the city, state approval authority or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing users, on the wastewater treatment
system, the quality of sludge, the system's effluent quality or air emissions
generated by the system.
   SIGNIFICANT VIOLATION. A violation that meets 1 or more of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a 6-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter
taken during a 6-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum
limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4 for BOD,
TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer-term average) that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or
in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through (including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
other order issued hereunder for starting construction, completing construction
or attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Superintendent
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
   SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature, including
but not limited to an accidental spill or noncustomary batch discharge and/or
any discharge of water or wastewater, in which the concentration of any given
constituent or the quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than 15 minutes more than 5 times the average 24-hour concentration or flow
rate during normal operation, and/or adversely affects the POTW.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, U.S. Bureau of the Budget, 1972.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER.  A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, surface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Superintendent of Wastewater Facilities and/or of
wastewater treatment works and/or of water pollution control for the city, or
his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for service in addition to the basic sewer user and debt
service charge, for those users whose contribution contains biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), suspended solids (SS) or ammonia
nitrogen (N-NH) in concentrations which exceed limits specified herein for
these pollutants.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids, and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable
residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provisions of CWA § 307(a) or other Acts.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER.  Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW. See definition of person.
   USER CHARGE. The charge levied on all users, including but not limited to
persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   WASTEWATER.  The spent water of a community. Sanitary or domestic wastes
shall mean the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial
buildings and institutions as distinct from industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. As set forth in the Administration section
of this chapter.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating domestic wastewaters and sludges. Sometimes used synonymously as WASTE
TREATMENT PLANT or SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE COMMONWEALTH. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
system, drainage system and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface
or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through or border upon the commonwealth or any portion thereof.
(1997 Code, § 620.3) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 53.015 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby
required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 30 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet of
the property line.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
waste water where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in
division (A), except as provided for in §§
53.030 and 5.031. The existence within the city, wherever the services of the
city sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal facilities are
available, or may hereafter be made available, of septic tanks, seepage
laterals, privies, earth pits, cesspools, sanitary waste vaults, sewage
drainage fields, private sewage disposal systems or any other such facilities
or works for the disposition of sanitary sewage wastes other than the
facilities of the city, is hereby declared to be a menace to the public health,
safety and general welfare of the citizens and inhabitants of the city and is
hereby determined and declared to constitute a public nuisance. The existence
of such facilities as toilets, sinks, wash basins, showerbaths, bathtubs, any
commercial or industrial machinery or device producing a liquid waste product
and the like in or upon any improved property or premises in the city where the
facilities of the city's sewage collection, treatment and disposal system are
available or may hereafter be made available is similarly declared to be a
menace to the public health and general welfare of the city and its
inhabitants, unless the facilities are connected to the city sewage collection,
treatment and disposal system. The Superintendent may prescribe the type and
manner of connection to those facilities, and may require that each connection
be supervised and inspected by an authorized and qualified agent of the City
Sewer Department.
   (C)   At the time that a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer system in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and removed.
(1997 Code, § 621.1) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.016 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city or into any sewer which
connects to the storm sewer system of the city, any objectionable wastewater or
industrial wastes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter. No provision of this
chapter shall be construed to relieve the owner of a discharge to any natural
outlet of the responsibility for complying with applicable state and federal
regulations governing the discharge.
(1997 Code, § 621.2) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.017 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.  
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and subsequent amendments.
(1997 Code, § 621.3) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.018 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged through any
leak, defect or connection any unpolluted waters such as stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sanitary
sewer, building sewer, building drain or building plumbing. The Superintendent
or his or her representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the
inside or outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks or defects
to building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying
the water to the building sewer. These waters shall not be removed through the
dual use of a sanitary drain sump or a sump pump to building sanitary sewer.
Discharge of the waters by a manual switch-over from sanitary sewer to storm
drainage will not be an acceptable method of separation. In case both storm and
sanitary sewage is present, a separate drainage or pumping system shall be
included.
   (B)   Stormwater, groundwater and all other unpolluted drainage may be
discharged to the sewers used as storm sewers approved by the Superintendent.
Under no circumstances shall sanitary sewage be discharged to a storm sewer.
   (C)   The owner(s) of any building sewers having any connections, leaks or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of those sources.
(1997 Code, § 621.4) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.019 SUBSTANCES WHICH INTERFERE; PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users
of a POTW whether or not the user is subject to federal categorical
pretreatment standards or any other federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements.
   (B)   A user shall not contribute the following substances to any POTW:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall a wastestream exhibit a
closed cup flashpoint of less than 140º Fahrenheit (60º Centigrade) using the
test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21. Prohibited materials include but
are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene,
ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates,
bromates, carbides, hydrides and any other substances which have a closed cup
flashpoint of 140º Fahrenheit (60º Centigrade) or less, and any substance which
the city, state or EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to
the sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property(s) capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment and personnel of the POTW.
      (3)   Any slug load or pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants,
released at a flow or concentration that will cause interference with the
POTW's operation.
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities.
      (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 104º F (40º C).
      (6)   Any pollutant(s) which, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, produce toxic gases, vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity
that may cause acute worker health and safety problems.
      (7)   Any substances which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW, such as residues, sludges or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act;
any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq., the Clean Air Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances
Control Act being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2681 et seq., or state criteria applicable to
the sludge management method being used.
      (8)   Any substance which causes the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
permit, sludge disposal permit or the water quality standards of the receiving
stream.
      (9)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through at the POTW.
      (10)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Superintendent.
(1997 Code, § 621.5) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991) Penalty, see §
53.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 53.030 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§§
53.015 through
53.019, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer system is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of applicable local and state regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city. When
it becomes necessary, the sludge may be disposed of only as approved by the
city, by operators licensed by the city for those purposes.
   (C)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable
local, state or federal regulations.
   (D)   Industries with current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted
discharge points provided they are in compliance with the conditions of the
permit.
(1997 Code, § 622.1) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.031 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or state regulations. Before commencement of
construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain
a written permit issued by the Woodford County Health Department after approval
of the system by the local and state authorities if required. The application
for the permit shall be made on a form furnished by the Woodford County Health
Department which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications
and information as are deemed necessary by the Woodford County Health
Department.
   (B)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local and state
authorities, if required. These authorities shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction, and in any event the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered.
(1997 Code, § 622.2) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.045 PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be 2 classes and building sewer permits required, for
residential, and for service to commercial, industrial and other nondomestic
establishments. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. Applicants for service to
commercial and industrial establishments shall be required to furnish
information about all waste producing activities, wastewater characteristics
and constituents. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Superintendent or his or her agent. Details regarding commercial and industrial
permits include but are not limited to those required by this chapter. Permit
and inspection fees shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
   (B)   Users shall notify the Superintendent of the POTW of any proposed new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any proposed change in the volume or
character of the wastewater being discharged to the POTW a minimum of 30 days
prior to the change. The Superintendent may deny or condition this new
introduction or change based upon the information submitted in the
notification.
(1997 Code, § 623.1) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.046 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connections of roof downspouts, basement wall seepage
or floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources
of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such
connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of the effective date of
this chapter. The owners of any building sewers having these connections, leaks
or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of those sources. Pipes,
sumps and pumps for the sources of ground and surface water shall be separate
from wastewater facilities. Removal of the sources of water without presence of
separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to the public sanitary sewer.
(1997 Code, § 623.2) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991) Penalty, see §
53.999
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 53.060 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The following described substances, materials, waters or waste shall be
limited in discharge to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities which
will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or equipment,
will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will not otherwise
endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set additional limitations or limitations more stringent
than those established in the regulations below if in his or her opinion the
more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming
his or her opinion as to the acceptability, the Superintendent shall give
consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to
flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant and other pertinent factors.
(1997 Code, § 624.1) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.061 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Wastewater containing more than 50 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil origin.
   (B)   Wastewater from industrial plants, commercial business or other
nondomestic connections containing floatable oils, fat or grease, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 50 milligrams per liter or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32º and
140º F (between 0º and 40º C) .
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interactions with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitations set forth in a federal pretreatment standard. A toxic
pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant identified pursuant
to § 307(a) of the Act.
   (E)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration as
may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state and/or federal regulations.
   (F)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes.
   (G)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removable in the POTW, but
in no case wastewater with a color at the introduction into the POTW that
exceeds 100 ADMI units.
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving stream of the POTW.
   (I)   (1)   Any water or waste which has characteristics based on a 24-hour
composite sample, grab or a shorter period composite sample if more
representative, which exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater
parameter concentrations:
 
Parameter Daily Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharge
BOD       250 mg/l
TSS       250 mg/l
NH-N      25 mg/1
COD       1,000 mg/1
 
      (2)   Discharges greater than these concentrations may be subject to
penalties contained in the Enforcement Response Plan for the City of Midway, in
addition to surcharge.
   (J)   The city has received authority through U.S. EPA and state statutes to
enforce the requirements of 40 C.F.R. Subchapter N and 40 C.F.R. § 403. All
users shall comply with the requirements of those regulations as well as with
all articles of this chapter.
   (K)   Any waste or wastewater classified as a hazardous waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.,
without, at least, a 60-day prior notification of the discharge to the
Superintendent of the POTW. This notification must include the name of the
waste, EPA hazardous waste number, type of discharge, volume/mass of discharge
and time of occurrence. The Superintendent may deny or condition this discharge
at any time.
   (L)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of any
wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system:
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration
Parameter             Maximum Daily Concentration
Arsenic, total        0.38 mg/l
Cadmium, total        0.019 mg/l
Chromium, total       1.00 mg/l
Copper, total         0.49 mg/l
Cyanide, total        0.15 mg/l
Lead, total           0.23 mg/l
Mercury, total        0.0035 mg/l
Nickel, total         0.26 mg/l
Oil and grease, total 50 mg/l
PCBs                  0.00 mg/l
pH                    6.0 to 9.0
Phenols, total        0.10 mg/l
Silver, total         0.43 mg/l
TTO                   2.13 mg/l
Zinc, total           1.10 mg/l
 
(1997 Code, § 624.2) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.062 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of processed water, or in any way
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or for any other pollutant-specific
limitation developed by the city or the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(1997 Code, § 624.3) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.063 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when in the opinion of
the Superintendent they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable oils and/or greases in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that these interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In
the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for
the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material
and shall maintain records of the dates, and means of disposal. The city may
require reporting of this information for their review. Any removal and hauling
of the collected materials not performed by the owner's personnel must be
performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms. Interceptors shall also
comply with applicable regulations of the Woodford County Health Department.
(1997 Code, § 624.4) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.064 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and later amendments, all pretreatment
standards promulgated by the U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. Subchapter N and 40
C.F.R. § 403 for new and existing industrial discharges to public sewer systems
are hereby made a part of this chapter. Any industrial waste discharge which
violates these EPA pretreatment standards shall be in violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (C)   Any person who transports septic tank contents, seepage pit or
cesspool contents, liquid industrial waste or other batch liquid waste and
wishes to discharge the waste to the public sewer system shall first obtain
permission for the discharge from the Superintendent. All persons receiving
this permission shall abide by all applicable provisions of this chapter and
any other special provisions that may be established by the Superintendent as
necessary for the proper operation and maintenance of the sewerage system.
Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the public sewer
system shall pay fees for the discharge in accordance with a fee schedule
established by the Superintendent and approved by the city. It shall be illegal
to discharge any batch liquid waste into any manhole or other part of the
public sewer system, or any building sewer or other facility that discharges to
the public sewer system, except at points of discharge designated by the
Superintendent for those purposes. Any liquid waste hauler illegally
discharging to the public sewer system shall be subject to immediate revocation
of discharge privileges (if granted) and further subject to the penalties and
enforcement actions prescribed in §§
53.130 through
53.136 and
53.999. Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with County Health Department, state or federal
regulations.
(1997 Code, § 624.5) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.065 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each significant industrial user shall provide protection from
accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or other substances
regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental and slug discharges
of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user's
own cost and expense. Once every 2 years the Superintendent will determine
whether each significant industrial user needs to develop a plan to control
slug discharges.
      (1)   If the Superintendent decides that a slug control plan is needed,
the plan shall contain the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for notifying the POTW; and
         (d)   Prevention procedures for spills.
      (2)   In the case of all possible or actual accidental and/or slug
discharges, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include the location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume and corrective actions
taken.
   (B)   Within 5 days following an accidental and/or slug discharge, the user
shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. This notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall the notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by this subchapter, the enforcement response
plan or other applicable law or regulation.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or
suffer such dangerous discharges to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedures.
(1997 Code, § 624.6) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.066 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal regulations and limitations or those
in this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 624.7) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.067 CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by a majority vote of its Council
Members, more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the POTW
at the recommendation of the Superintendent or, if deemed necessary, to comply
with the objectives presented in this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 624.8) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.068 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of federal categorical pretreatment standards for a
particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than
limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter. The
Superintendent shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(1997 Code, § 624.9) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
§ 53.080 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city and/or to the POTW, any
wastewater except as authorized by the Superintendent in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. Any agency and/or industries outside the
jurisdiction of the city that wish to contribute wastewaters to the POTW must
first sign (through an authorized representative) an interjurisdictional
agreement whereby the agency and/or industrial user agree to be regulated by
all provisions of this chapter, state and federal regulations. An industrial
user discharge permit may then be issued by the Superintendent in accordance
with §
53.016.
(1997 Code, § 625.1) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.081 INDUSTRIAL USER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or
contribute to the POTW shall obtain an industrial user discharge permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All existing significant industrial
users connected to or contributing to the POTW shall apply for an industrial
user discharge permit within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain an industrial user
discharge permit shall complete and file with the city an application in the
form prescribed by the city. Existing users shall apply for an industrial user
discharge permit within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter, and
proposed new users shall apply at least 90 days prior to connecting to or
contributing to the POTW. In support of the application, the user shall submit
in units and terms appropriate for evaluation the following information, in
addition to any other information the Superintendent may desire:
      (1)   Name, address and location of facility, and owner(s) if different
from that given;
      (2)   SIC number(s) according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to §
304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. § 136, as amended, and 40 C.F.R. §
261;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Daily, average and maximum wastewater flow rates, including daily,
monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any city, state or federal pretreatment
standards and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment
is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
the additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standards. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule must be acceptable to the city.
         (b)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date, and if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the
steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process and rate of
production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number of employees and hours of operation of plant, and proposed
or actual hours of operation of the pretreatment system;
      (13)   A copy of the industry's written environmental control program,
comparable document or policy; and
      (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Issuance of industrial user discharge permit. The Superintendent shall
evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the Superintendent may
issue an industrial user discharge permit subject to the terms and conditions
provided herein.
(1997 Code, § 625.2) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.082 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within 9 months of the promulgation of a federal categorical pretreatment
standard, the industrial user discharge permit of any user subject to that
standard shall be revised to require compliance with the standard within the
timeframe prescribed by the standard. Where a user subject to federal
categorical pretreatment standards has not previously submitted an application
for an industrial user discharge permit as required, the user shall apply for
the permit within 90 days of the date of promulgation of the applicable federal
categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, the user with an existing
industrial user discharge permit shall submit to the Superintendent, within 90
days of the date of promulgation of an applicable federal categorical
pretreatment standard, the information required by this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 625.3) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.083 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Industrial user discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the city. Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the public sewer system;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling to be performed, types and standards of
analysis and reporting schedules;
      (6)   Compliance schedule(s);
      (7)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining all records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the city for a minimum of 3 years, and
afford city access thereto;
      (8)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
      (10)   Requirements for the user to reimburse the city for all expenses
related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction of the
Superintendent and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user is in
compliance with the permit; and
      (11)   Any other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent
and/or the city to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Where an effluent from an industrial process is mixed prior to
treatment with wastewaters other than those generated by the regulated process,
fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the discharge permit by
the Superintendent. These alternative limits shall be applied to the mixed
effluent. These alternative limits shall be calculated using the combined
wastestream formula and/or flow- weighted average formula given in 40 C.F.R. §
403.6(e). Where the effluent limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production
(production-based standard), the Superintendent may convert the limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant that may be
discharged per day or of effluent concentration for purposes of calculating
effluent permit limitations applicable to the permittee. The permittee shall be
subject to all permit limits calculated in this manner under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(c) and must fully comply with these alternative limits. All categorical
industrial users subject to production-based standards must report production
rates annually so that alternative permit limits can be calculated if
necessary. The categorical industrial user must notify the Superintendent 30
days in advance of any change in production levels that might affect the flow
or other data used to calculate the effluent limits in the discharge permit.
(1997 Code, § 625.4) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.084 PERMIT DURATION.
   Industrial user discharge permits shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed 5 years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a
year or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for
permit reissuance a minimum of 120 days prior to the expiration of the user's
existing permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modification by the city during the term of the permit as limitations or
requirements identified in §§
53.060 through
53.068 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in the permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date
of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable timeframe for compliance.
(1997 Code, § 625.5) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.085 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Industrial user discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a
specific operation. An industrial user discharge permit shall not be
reassigned, transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or
a new or changed operation without, at a minimum, a 30-day prior notification
of the change to the Superintendent and provision of a copy of the existing
permit to the new owner. The Superintendent may deny the transfer of the permit
if it is deemed necessary to comply with all provisions of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 625.6) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.086 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEES.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new user, following commencement of
the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject to federal
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process or processes which are
limited by categorical pretreatment standards and requirements and the average
and maximum daily flow for these process units in the user's facility which are
limited by the categorical standards and requirements. The report shall state
whether the applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements are
being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional pretreatment
equipment and time schedule are necessary to bring the user into compliance
with the applicable categorical standard or requirement. This statement shall
be signed by an authorized representative of the user.
   (B)   (1)   All significant industrial users shall submit to the
Superintendent during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently by a pretreatment standard or the industrial user discharge permit,
a report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent
which are limited by the pretreatment standards or the industrial user
discharge permit. In addition, this report shall include a record of all daily
flows which during the reporting period exceed the average daily flow. At the
discretion of the Superintendent, and in consideration of such factors as local
high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the like, the
Superintendent may agree to alter the months during which the above reports are
to be submitted.
      (2)   All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory acceptable to the
city. Analytical procedures shall be in accordance with procedures established
by the U.S. EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. §
136 and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures approved by the
U.S. EPA. Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
approved by the U.S. EPA.
      (3)   Where 40 C.F.R. § 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant in question sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication
"Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants," April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the U.S. EPA.
      (4)   All industrial users shall retain all pretreatment records for a
minimum of 3 years, as required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(o)(2).
   (C)   (1)   A baseline monitoring report (BMR) must be submitted to the
Superintendent by all categorical industrial users at least 90 days prior to
initiation of discharge to the sanitary sewer. The BMR must contain, at a
minimum, the following:
         (a)   Production data including a process description, SIC code
number, raw materials used, chemicals used and final product(s) produced;
         (b)   Name of facility contact person;
         (c)   Wastewater characteristics such as total plant flow, types of
discharges, average and maximum flows from each process;
         (d)   Nature and concentration of pollutants discharged to the public
sewer system that are regulated by this chapter, state and/or federal
pretreatment standards and sample type and location; and
         (e)   Information concerning any pretreatment equipment used to treat
the facility's discharge.
      (2)   All new sources of industrial discharge must be in compliance with
all provisions of this chapter prior to commencement of discharge.
(1997 Code, § 625.7) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.087 PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   All significant industrial users must notify the Superintendent within 24
hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation. This notification shall
include the date of the violation, the parameter violated and the amount in
exceedance. Within 30 days of first becoming aware of a permit violation, the
significant industrial user must resample for the parameters violated and
submit this sample analysis to the Superintendent, unless the Superintendent,
on behalf of the city, conducts monitoring of this parameter within that 30-day
period.
(1997 Code, § 625.8) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.088 MONITORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall require significant industrial users to provide and
operate, at the user's own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection,
sampling and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage
system. The monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's
premises, but the city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause
undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in a public
right-of-way. The Superintendent shall review and approve the location, plans
and specifications for the monitoring facilities and may require them to be
constructed to provide for the separate monitoring and sampling of industrial
waste and sanitary sewage flows. There shall be ample room in or near the
sampling manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of
samples for analysis. The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense
of the user. Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling
and monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
approval of the location plans and specifications.
   (B)   All sampling analyses done in accordance with approved U.S. EPA
procedures by the significant industrial user during a reporting period shall
be submitted to the Superintendent, regardless of whether or not that analysis
was required by the user's discharge permit.
   (C)   The significant industrial user must receive the approval of the
Superintendent before changing the sampling point and/or monitoring facilities
to be used in all required sampling.
(1997 Code, § 625.9) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.089 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Superintendent shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain
whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or its representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purpose of inspection,
sampling, copying and examination of records or in the performance of their
duties. REASONABLE TIMES shall include any time during which the user is
discharging to the public sewer system and/or operating any manufacturing
process. The city, approval authority and U.S. EPA shall have the right to set
up on the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspections, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry onto the premises the user shall make the necessary
arrangements with their  security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city, approval authority and U.S. EPA will
be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purpose of performing their
specific duties.
(1997 Code, § 625.10) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.090 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance
with all applicable federal categorical pretreatment standards within the time
limits as specified by the federal pretreatment regulations. The city may
require the development of a compliance schedule for installation of
pretreatment technology and/or equipment by any significant industrial user
that is not meeting discharge limits established in the user's industrial user
discharge permit. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level
acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user's
expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review, and shall be
acceptable to the Superintendent before construction of the facility. The
review of these plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user's initiation of
the change.
   (B)   The city is required by federal regulations to keep the public
informed of all cases of significant violations. To accomplish this, the city
shall annually publish in a newspaper of local circulation a list of the users
which were in significant noncompliance with any pretreatment requirements or
standards. Significant noncompliance is any significant violation that meets 1
or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Results in the exercise of emergency authority by the
Superintendent;
      (2)   Remains uncorrected 45 days after notice of noncompliance is given;
      (3)   Involves failure to report noncompliance accurately;
      (4)   Wastewater violations:
         (a)   Chronic violations. Sixty-six percent or more of all
measurements taken during a 6-month period exceed, by any magnitude, the daily
maximum limit or the monthly average limit for the same pollutant parameter;
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations. Thirty-three percent
or more of all measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a 6-month
period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or the monthly
average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats,
oils and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH).
         (c)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the
Superintendent believes has caused alone or in combination with other
discharges, interference or pass-through or has endangered the health of the
POTW personnel or the public.
         (d)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health or
to the environment or resulting in the Superintendent's use of his or her
emergency authority to halt or prevent the discharge.
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, failure to comply
with schedule milestones for starting or completing construction or attaining
final compliance by 90 days or more after the schedule date.
         (f)   Failure to provide required reports within 30 days of the due
date.
         (g)   Any violation or group of violations which the Superintendent
determines will adversely effect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program. The public notification shall also summarize any
enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12 months. All
records relating to the pretreatment program of the city shall be made
available to officials of the U.S. EPA or approval authority upon request. All
records shall be maintained for a minimum of 3 years in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(o)(2).
(1997 Code, § 625.11) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.091 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction,
unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the city that the release of that information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user. When requested by the person furnishing a report, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public but shall be made
available to all governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
NPDES/KPDES permit, sludge disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment
program, upon request of the agency. These portions of a report shall be
available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
   (B)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be recognized as
confidential information and shall be available to the public without
restriction.
(1997 Code, § 625.12) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
INSPECTION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.110 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Superintendent and other duly promulgated employees and representatives
of the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state
regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties at any reasonable time for purposes of but
not limited to inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing of
discharges to the public sewer system and inspection and copying of all records
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 627.1) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.111 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city are authorized to
obtain information concerning character, strength and quantity of industrial
wastes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system.
(1997 Code, § 627.2) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.112 ACCESS TO EASEMENT.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement and
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1997 Code, § 627.3) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.113 SAFETY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
53.110, all duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the facility and the company
shall be held blameless for any injury or death to the city employee. The city
shall secure the company against loss or damage to its property by city
employees and against liability, claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required by this chapter.
(1997 Code, § 627.4) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.114 ENFORCEMENT; GENERAL.
   (A)   The city through the Superintendent or his or her designee, to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and as permitted through 40 C.F.R. Subchapter N,
§§ 401 through 471 and 401 KAR 5:055, § 9 may take the following enforcement
steps against users in noncompliance with this chapter. The remedies available
to the Superintendent include injunctive relief, civil and criminal penalties,
immediate discontinuance of discharges and/or water service and the publishing
of the list of significant violators annually. The enforcement authority shall
be vested in the Superintendent of the POTW or his or her designee.
   (B)   All violations of requirements of this chapter must be reviewed and
responded to by the Superintendent or his or her representative. In general,
the Superintendent shall notify the industrial user when a violation occurs.
For all violations, the Superintendent shall receive an explanation and, as
appropriate, a plan from the industrial user to correct the violation within a
specific time period. If the violation(s) persist or the explanation and/or
plan are not adequate, the Superintendent's response shall be more formal and
commitments or schedules, as appropriate, for compliance will be established in
an enforceable document. The enforcement response selected will be related to
the seriousness of the violation. Enforcement responses will be escalated if
compliance is not achieved expeditiously after the initial action. A
significant violation will require a formal enforcement action. The full scale
of enforcement actions will be detailed in the city's pretreatment program
enforcement response plan.
(1997 Code, § 628.1) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.115 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   (A)   Informal notice. These actions include statements made to the
industrial user during sampling and/or inspection visits, telephone calls to
the appropriate company official, informal meetings, warning or reminder
letters. These informal notices shall be used for minor violations.
   (B)   Formal notice. These actions include the following:
      (1)   Notice of violation. Any person found to be violating any provision
of this chapter, wastewater discharge permit or any order issued hereunder
shall be served by the POTW Superintendent with a written notice stating the
nature of the violation. The offender must permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Administrative orders/fines. Any person who, after receiving a
notice of violation, shall continue to discharge in violation of this chapter
or other pretreatment standard or requirement or is determined to be a chronic
or persistent violator, shall be ordered to appear before the Superintendent.
At the appearance, a compliance schedule will be given to the violating user
and an administrative fine assessed. The fine shall be determined on a case-by-
case basis which shall consider the type, severity, duration and number of
violations, severity of impact on the POTW, impact on human health, user's
economic benefit from the violation, past history of the user and good-faith
efforts made by the user. The fine shall be a nonarbitrary but appropriate
amount.
         (a)   Users desiring to dispute the fines shall file with the
Superintendent a request for the city to reconsider the fine within 10 days of
being notified of the fine. The city shall convene a hearing on the matter
within 15 days of receiving such a request from the user.
         (b)   The administrative order may take any of the following 4 forms:
            1.   Consent order.  The Superintendent is hereby empowered to
enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar
documents establishing an agreement with the industrial user responsible for
the noncompliance. These orders will include specific action to be taken by the
industrial user to correct the noncompliance within a time period also
specified in the order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as
all other administrative orders.
            2.   Compliance order. When the Superintendent finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or permit or
order issued hereunder, he or she may issue an order to the industrial user
responsible for the violation directing that following a specified time period,
sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices or other related appurtenances have been installed and are properly
operated. Orders may also contain other requirements as might be reasonably
necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including the
installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring and
management practices.
            3.   Cease and desist order. When the Superintendent finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit
or order issued hereunder, the Superintendent may issue an order to cease and
desist all such violations to the user and direct those persons in
noncompliance to:
               a.   Comply forthwith; and
               b.   Take any appropriate remedial or preventative action as may
be needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge.
            4.   Show cause hearing. The Superintendent may issue to any user
who causes or contributes to violations of this chapter, discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, an order to appear and show cause why more severe
enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place of the hearing to be held by the Superintendent
regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the
proposed enforcement action and directing the user to show cause before the
Superintendent why more severe enforcement action should not be taken. The
notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail (return receipt requested) at least 10 days before the hearing. Service
may be made on any agent or officer of the facility. Whether or not a duly
notified industrial user or its representative appears, immediate enforcement
action may be pursued.
               a.   The city itself may conduct the hearing and take evidence
or may designate a representative to:
                  (i)   Issue in the name of the city notices of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in the hearings;
                  (ii)   Take the evidence; and
                  (iii)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing,
including transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the
city for action thereon. At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter,
testimony taken must be under oath and recorded stenographically.
               b.   The transcript, so recorded, will be made available to any
member of the public or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual
charges thereof. After the city has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an
order to the user responsible for the violation directing that, following a
specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are installed and
properly operated. Further orders and directives as are necessary and
appropriate may be issued.
(1997 Code, § 628.2) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
VIOLATIONS
§ 53.130 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter or a discharge
permit or order issued hereunder shall be served by the Superintendent or his
or her representative with written notice stating the nature of the violation.
The violator shall permanently cease all violations upon receipt of this
notice. As contained in §§
53.114 and
53.115, the notice may be of several forms. Also as contained in §§
53.114 and
53.115, penalties of various forms may be levied against users for violations
of this chapter. The penalties shall range from publication of violators to
fines of at least $1,000 per day per violation.
(1997 Code, § 629.1) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.131 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter or discharge
permit or other order issued hereunder shall be subject to termination of its
authority to discharge sewage into the public sewer system. The termination
shall be immediate if necessary for the protection of the POTW. The user may
also have water service terminated.
   (B)   Any user who violates any conditions of this chapter, discharge
permit, order or applicable state or federal regulations is subject to having
its industrial user discharge permit revoked in accordance with the procedures
of this chapter. Violations resulting in immediate permit revocation shall
include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of its discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations,
processes, wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection and sampling; and
      (4)   Violation(s) of any condition of the industrial user discharge
permit.
(1997 Code, § 629.3) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.132 LIABILITY.
   Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter, discharge permit
or other order issued hereunder shall become liable to the city for any
expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of the violation. This
civil liability is as provided by state and federal regulations.
(1997 Code, § 629.4) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.133 MISREPRESENTATION AND/OR FALSIFYING OF DOCUMENTS.
   Any user who knowingly and/or negligently makes any false statements,
representations or certification of any application, record, report, plan or
other document filed or required pursuant to this chapter or industrial user
discharge permit or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly and/or negligently
renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter,
shall be subject to the provisions of §
53.999.
(1997 Code, § 629.5) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.134 DESTRUCTION OF POTW AND LEGAL ACTION.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the POTW. Any person(s) violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. It
shall be noted that the Clean Water Act does not require proof of specific
intent to obtain conviction.
(1997 Code, § 629.6) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.135 JUDICIAL ACTION.
   (A)   If any person(s) discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
into the city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, discharge permit, any order of the Superintendent or the city, or
federal or state pretreatment requirements, the city may commence an action for
appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the appropriate court of this
jurisdiction.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided herein, the city may recover
reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs, court reporters' fees and other
expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person(s) found
to have violated this chapter or the orders, rules, regulations and permits
issued hereunder.
(1997 Code, § 629.7) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.136 TERMINATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
wastewater discharge permit of an industrial user whenever the suspension is
necessary in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge presenting or
causing an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of the
public, the POTW or the environment. Any user notified of a suspension of the
wastewater treatment service and/or the discharge permit shall immediately stop
or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to immediately
comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent shall take
such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals.
   (B)   Any industrial user which is responsible, in whole or in part, for
imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement describing the
causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence to the Superintendent.
(1997 Code, § 629.8) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
FEES; RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.150 RECOVERY OF FEES AND COSTS.
   This section provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW for
the implementation and conduct of the pretreatment program established herein.
The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in the city's schedule of
charges and fees.
(1997 Code, § 626.1) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.151 ITEMS INCLUDED IN FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include the following:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city's pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit application;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of excessive strength
conventional pollutants;
      (7)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained in this chapter; and
      (8)   Fees for the connection of a discharger (residential or other).
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
(1997 Code, § 626.2) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.152 COSTS TO BE INCLUDED IN CHARGES.
   Charges shall be comprised of a system of excessive strength surcharges and
a system of charges for debt services, operation and maintenance costs,
including normal replacement costs.
(1997 Code, § 626.3) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
§ 53.153 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF SEWER SYSTEM; SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHARGES FOR DEBT SERVICE. Charges levied on users of the sewage treatment
system to support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
      CITY. The City of Midway, Kentucky.
      EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGES. Charges levied on users of the sewage
treatment system whose contribution contains biological oxygen demand (BOD),
suspended solids (SS) or ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which
exceed limits specified herein for the pollutants and who are permitted to make
these contributions to the system by decision of the Superintendent of the
Midway Water and Sewer System.
      SEWER SERVICE CHARGES. Charges levied on all users who discharge, cause
or permit the discharge of sewage into the public sewage treatment system.
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES shall be comprised of a system of user charges, excessive
strength surcharges and a system of charges for debt service.
      USER CHARGES. Charges levied on users of the sewage system to offset the
cost of operations and maintenance of the system, including normal replacement
costs.
   (B)   Sewer rates.
      (1)   The following schedule of rates shall apply to each user of the
sewage treatment system. This schedule includes rates for user charges and
rates for debt service charges, each based on the volume of metered or
estimated water consumption.
 
Sewer Rate Schedule (Based on Water Consumption)
Rate Per Month
Water Consumption    User Charge Debt Service Combined
First 1,000 gals/mo. $1.60       $9.35        $10.95 minimum
All over 1,000 gal.                           $5.47 per 1,000 gals.
 
(Am. Ord. 02-013, passed 6-24-2002; Am. Ord. 2018-10, passed 12-17-2018)
      (2)   Normal monthly billings for sewer service shall be determined on
the basis of each user's metered water consumption and rates provided by
division (B)(1) above. It is recognized in the assessment of these charges that
not all metered water consumption is returned to the sewers. For the purpose of
assessing service charges equitably, the average percentage of metered water
consumption returned to the sewer is deemed to be 90%. Where it can be
evidenced that the proportion of metered water consumption actually returned to
the treatment system by an individual customer is significantly different from
90%, service charges shall be determined on the basis of actual wastewater
discharge. In this event, the volume of wastewater discharge shall be
determined by using additional water meters to segregate water consumption that
is returned to the sewers and/or actual metering of wastewater flows and/or any
other procedure agreed upon by the user and Superintendent of the city water
and sewer system as a reasonable method.
      (3)   No reduction in sewage service charges, fees or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain wastes discharged to the sewage
works contain less than 300 mg/1 of BOD, 300 mg/1 of SS or 25 mg/1 of NH3-N.
      (4)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill of the rate and that portion of the total charge which is
attributable to operations and maintenance of the sewage system.
   (C)   Financial management system.
      (1)   The city shall maintain financial records to accurately account for
revenues generated by the treatment system and expenditures for operation and
maintenance of the system, including normal replacement costs.
      (2)   The city shall review not less often than biennially the sewage
contribution of users, the total cost of operation and maintenance of the
sewage works, debt service obligations and sewer service charges. Based on this
review, the city shall revise, when necessary, the schedule of sewer service
charges to accomplish the following:
         (a)   Maintain an equitable distribution of operations and maintenance
costs among users of the treatment system; and
         (b)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the sewage system and to meet debt service
requirements.
      (3)   Excessive strength surcharges shall be reviewed at the time of and
in conjunction with the review of sewer service charges. Surcharge rates shall
be revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring costs.
   (D)   Amendments. This chapter shall be amended, as necessary, to comply
with federal regulations.
(1997 Code, § 611.0) (Ord. passed 1-7-1980; Ord. 610.1, passed 9-10-1984; Am.
Ord. passed 9-1-1986; Am. Ord. 93-011, passed 3-10-1993)
§ 53.154 ADJUSTMENT OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Relief may be allowed to city water service customers for sewer
service charges on water metered, but not actually being placed into the city
sewer lines upon the determination of the Water Superintendent that a water
leak existed that did not result in the placement into the city sewer system of
all water metered through the meter of a particular customer.
(Am. Ord. 2003-09, passed 7-21-2003)
   (B)   Any city water service customer believing that a water leak has caused
an increase in the amount of water used by that customer during any billing
period may request through the City Clerk/Treasurer that the Water
Superintendent make an investigation and determine if an adjustment of the
sewer charge for the water leaked is appropriate. This request can be made
orally or in writing.
   (C)   The procedure for investigation by the Midway Water Superintendent of
a possible adjustment of the sewer service charge for a city water service
customer shall be as follows. The Midway Water Superintendent or his or her
designated representative shall make a determination from evidence available to
him or her at the time of the investigation as to whether a leak occurred,
considering any or all of the following:
      (1)   An onsite inspection;
      (2)   Comparison of water usage for the billing period in question with
past usage; and
      (3)   Physical evidence of leaks, or other explanation for increased
water usage.
   (D)   If the City Water Superintendent makes a determination that a water
leak has occurred, and that the amount of the leak was larger than 1,000
gallons, then the Water Superintendent shall determine in his or her judgment
the amount of the leak, and the sewer service charge will be reduced by the
amount of the leak as determined by the Water Superintendent only. The
adjustment will be made in 1,000 gallon increments only.
   (E)   Upon written notification from the Water Superintendent that he or she
has determined that a leak occurred, the amount of gallons of the leak, and
that the sewer service charge should be reduced accordingly, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall be authorized to adjust the bill of the customer in accordance
with the determination of the Water Superintendent for the sewer service charge
only.
   (F)   (1)   In the event a water service customer is not satisfied with the
determination of whether a leak existed and the amount of the leak as it
affects the sewer service charge imposed by the city, that water service
customer may appeal any decision made by the Water Superintendent to the City
Council. The procedure for appeals shall be that, within 30 days after the
decision by the Water Superintendent, the water service customer seeking to
appeal shall deliver a written request for consideration of his or her case by
the City Council.
      (2)   The written request for consideration shall be delivered to the
City Clerk/Treasurer, City Hall. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall then place the
matter on the agenda of the next City Council meeting following the request for
reconsideration, and the customer requesting the reconsideration shall be
prepared at that meeting to present his or her evidence that a leak occurred,
the amount of the leak, and the proposed adjustment to his or her sewer service
charges. The City Council shall then decide to either uphold the decision of
the Water Superintendent or make further adjustments to the sewer service
charges of the water service customer.
(1997 Code, § 611.1) (Ord. 610.1(1), passed 8-12-1985)
§ 53.155 ADJUSTMENT OF CHARGES FOR REASONS OTHER THAN WATER LINE BREAKS.
   (A)   The City Council may establish policies, rules and procedures for the
adjustment of sewer service charges other than for water line leaks, on the
basis that water passing through a customer's meter did not enter the city's
sewer system.
(Ord. 2003-09, passed 7-21-2003)
   (B)   These policies, rules and procedures were adopted by the City Council
and are hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. passed 7-21-2003)
§ 53.156 FEE FOR INSTALLATION OF SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The tap on fee for a sewer connection shall be based on the water
meter size serving the connection as follows:
Water Meter Size Capacity Factor Tap on Fee
Water Meter Size Capacity Factor Tap on Fee
5/8 inch         .75             $ 1,500
1 inch           1.33            1,995
1 1/2 inch       2.00            3,000
2 inch           2.66            3,990
3 inch           4.00            6,000
4 inch           5.33            7,995
6 inch           8.00            12,000
8 inch           10.66           15,990
 
   (B)   The fees are in addition to the city's fees for water service
connection and do not include the cost of materials, labor, and construction of
the sewer connection. The cost of the labor and materials and the actual
construction of the sewer connection is the responsibility of the property
owner, and is subject to the approval of the city.
(1997 Code, § 611.2) (Ord. passed 8-14-1989; Am. Ord. 92-009, passed 5-4-1992;
Am. Ord. 97-07, passed 3-17-1997; Am. Ord. 99-11, passed 12-6-1999; Am. Ord.
2004-013, passed 9-7-2004; Am. Ord. 2005-011, passed 8-1-2005; Am. Ord. 2007-
003, passed 3-5-2007)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any user who shall violate any provision of this chapter, a discharge
permit or other order issued hereunder shall be guilty of a violation of this
chapter and shall be liable to the Superintendent for a civil penalty of at
least $1,000 per violation for each day on which the violation occurs. Each day
in which the violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 629.2)
   (B)   For violation of §
53.002, the fine upon conviction will be no less than $10 and no more than $100
for each offense, and each day's continuance thereof shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 620.2)
   (C)   Any user who violates §
53.133 shall be punished by a fine of at least $500 or by imprisonment for not
more than 12 months or by both.
(1997 Code, § 629.5)
   (D)   Any industrial user who willfully or negligently violates any
provisions of this chapter, any orders or permits issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment requirements shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $500 per violation per day
or imprisonment for not more than 1 year or both.
(1997 Code, § 627.1) (Ord. 91-05, passed 9-2-1991)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
Seatbelts
   
70.35   Definitions
   
70.36   Driver and occupants to wear seatbelts
   
70.37   Drive to secure occupants under age 16
   
70.38   Exemptions
   
70.39   Limitations on enforcement
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Additional penalties, see §
130.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing the BOULEVARD.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between 2 consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and other portions of the roadway between 2
intersections that may be legally designated as crossing places and marked by
stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles, whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. That part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of 2 or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not 1
street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed, erected or maintained by authority of the Chief of
Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in 1
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and
footpaths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. That portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on any street, except devices moved by human power or used
exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county or city, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any
of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this
traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose traffic regulations
as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed 2 weeks. If
these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than 2 weeks, the
City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or symbolic
message or exhibiting different colored lights for purposes of traffic control,
the following colors only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall
indicate and be obeyed as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go." Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits
either turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time the
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or
"Go" signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or "Stop." Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at
another point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as
may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by the
signal.
   (F)   "Yield Right-of-Way." Vehicular traffic facing the "Yield Right-of-
Way" sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above the lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at that place prohibits
the turn.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate 1 particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal any commercial advertising. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as restricting any public department or public
utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or erecting
any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the city.
   (B)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if,
at the time and place of the alleged violation, the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
SEATBELTS
§ 70.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle which is capable of transporting 1
or more persons, but shall not include motorcycles, school buses, church buses
or other public conveyance vehicles; and road rollers, road graders, farm
tractors, vehicles on which power shovels are mounted and other construction
and farming equipment customarily used only on the site of construction or
farming and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any street, highway, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them, and includes off-street parking
facilities offered for public use, whether publicly or privately owned, except
for-hire parking facilities.
(1997 Code, § 524.1) (Ord. 93-001, passed 3-1-1993)
§ 70.36 DRIVER AND OCCUPANTS TO WEAR SEAT BELTS.
   Each driver and each occupant, 16 years of age or older, of a motor vehicle
operated on the public roads in the city shall wear a properly adjusted and
fastened safety belt as provided for under Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard 208.
(1997 Code, § 524.2) (Ord. 93-001, passed 3-1-1993)
§ 70.37 DRIVER TO SECURE OCCUPANTS UNDER AGE 16.
   The driver of a motor vehicle operated on the public roads of the city shall
secure or cause to be secured in a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt
system or child safety restraint any passenger under 16 years of age to whom
the provisions of KRS 189.125 do not apply.
(1997 Code, § 524.3) (Ord. 93-001, passed 3-1-1993)
§ 70.38 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   A motor vehicle manufactured before July 1, 1966;
   (B)   A motor vehicle or passenger van with a physically or psychologically
handicapping condition which would prevent appropriate restraint in a safety
belt or child safety restraint; provided, however, that the condition is duly
certified by a physician who shall state the nature of the handicap, as well as
the reason the restraint is inappropriate; and provided, further, that the
written certification is in the possession of the driver or passenger, as
applicable, at the time of the conduct in question; or
   (C)   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with a safety
belt system under federal law.
(1997 Code, § 524.4) (Ord. 93-001, passed 3-1-1993)
§ 70.39 LIMITATIONS ON ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall be stopped, inspected or detained solely to determine
compliance with this section.
(1997 Code, § 524.5) (Ord. 93-001, passed 3-1-1993)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no
other penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
70.35 through
70.39 shall be fined not more than $25.
(1997 Code, § 524.6) (Ord. 93-001, passed 3-1-1993)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Operation of Vehicles
   
71.001   Vehicles on sidewalks
   
71.002   U-turns prohibited
   
71.003   Obstructing traffic
   
71.003   Backing vehicles
   
71.004   Definitions
   
71.005   School safety zones
   
71.007   Funeral processions
   
71.008   Application to buses
Accidents
   
71.020   Duty of operator
   
71.021   Accident report
Traffic Restrictions on Streets
   
71.035   Through trucks prohibited
   
71.036   Designation of 1-way streets
   
71.037   Speed limitations on city streets
Prohibitions
   
71.050   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.051   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.052   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.070   Definitions
   
71.071   Permit required
   
71.072   Application for permit
   
71.073   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.074   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.075   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.076   Alternative permit
   
71.077   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.078   Contents of permit
   
71.079   Duties of permittee
   
71.080   Public conduct during parades
   
71.081   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.999   Penalty
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 71.001 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the City of Midway, Kentucky, to use
any sidewalk or pavement therein for the purpose of skating or riding any
bicycle or any other wheeled vehicle (except baby wagons).
(1997 Code, § 521.0) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.002 U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
   U-turns shall not be allowed on any portion of streets as designated in
Chapter 73, Schedule I.
(1997 Code, § 522.0) (Ord. 540.2, passed 5-10-1982) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in a manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY. Any public road, street, avenue, alley or boulevard, bridge,
viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them.
   VEHICLE. All agencies for the transportation of persons or property over or
upon the public highways of the commonwealth and all vehicles passing over or
upon the highways, excepting road rollers, road graders, farm tractors,
vehicles on which power shovels are mounted, other construction equipment
customarily used only on the site of construction and which is not practical
for the transportation of persons or property upon the highways, vehicles as
travel exclusively upon rails, and vehicles as are propelled by electric power
obtained from overhead wires while being operated within any municipality or
where the vehicles do not travel more than 5 miles beyond the city limits of
any municipality.
§ 71.006 SCHOOL SAFETY ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby established a safety zone for each street
tangent to school property upon which a school building exists in the city.
      (2)   The boundaries of any safety zone within the city shall be
indicated by signs, either stationary or nonstationary, posted at each and
every approach of the zone.
   (B)   Drivers of vehicles when operating within a properly marked school
zone shall operate their vehicles in a reasonable and prudent manner at all
times and shall not pass any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction
within the school zone and shall not exceed a speed limit of 15 miles per hour
while in the zone. Where school zones are located along public highways which
are maintained by the commonwealth, the speed limit shall be 25 miles per hour.
   (C)   The speed limits indicated in division (B) above shall be mandatorily
enforced upon all drivers between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. (EST) on
every day from Sunday through Friday of each week during any school term.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.007 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   When the traffic signal or light changes while a funeral procession is
passing the same, the procession shall continue moving until the entire
procession has passed the light or signal. It is unlawful for any driver of any
automobile, truck or other vehicle to knowingly and without cause join any
funeral procession and become a part of same.
Penalty, see §
71.999 
§ 71.008 APPLICATION TO BUSES.
   All buses operating through the streets of the city shall be subject to the
restrictions hereof and shall only stop at street intersections for the purpose
of taking on or discharging passengers, except in residential sections when the
stop is made near the curbing.
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.020 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render the assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
71.999
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.021 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see §
71.999
TRAFFIC RESTRICTIONS ON STREETS
§ 71.035 THROUGH TRUCKS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any truck of any contract or common carrier of goods for hire
entering and passing through the city in transit, not for the purpose of
delivery or receiving goods therein, may operate the truck only on public
highways designated and maintained by the State Department of Highways, and
shall not operate the truck on a street maintained by the city.
(Ord. 2002-008, passed 5-6-2002) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.036 DESIGNATION OF 1-WAY STREETS.
   Certain streets within the city are designated for 1-way motor vehicle
traffic, as designated in
Chapter 73, Schedule II.
(1997 Code, § 523.1) (Ord. 92-007, passed 5-4-1992)
§ 71.037 SPEED LIMITATIONS ON CITY STREETS.
   The speed limit on all city streets shall be 25 m.p.h. except as designated
in
Chapter 73, Schedule III.
(Ord. passed 6-20-2005) Penalty, see §
71.999
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.050 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in a
manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates divisions
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator’s license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) Penalty,  see §
71.999
§ 71.051 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with and operating
1 or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights visible under
normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the emergency
vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle
or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way,
immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the
edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed
by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of the Fire Department when the hose is laid down on any
street, private driveway or track for use at any fire alarm unless the Fire
Department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   The provision of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternately
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) above shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (a)   Yield the right of way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if;
         (1)   The person is driving on a highway having at least 4 lanes, with
at least 2 lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching vehicle;
and
         (2)   It is possible to make the lane change with due regard to safety
and traffic conditions; or
      (b)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than 4 lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930)  Penalty, see §
71.999
Cross-reference:
   Additional fire hose provisions, see §
130.04
§ 71.052 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle, when on a highway, shall be so equipped as to make a minimum
of noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic and
to promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) Penalty, see §
71.999
PARADES
§ 71.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any PARADE, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or
other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
§ 71.071 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.072 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by the
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than 5 days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade; the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of or for
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   Fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a
parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.073 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of or ambulance service to areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.074 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within 3 days, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays
excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the application, he or
she shall mail to the applicant within the 3 days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his or her action stating the reasons for his or her denial of the permit.
§ 71.075 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.076 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of and shall have the effect of a parade permit
under this subchapter.
§ 71.077 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.078 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.079 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.080 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.081 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty is
specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Trailer parking prohibited on Main Street
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with handicapped permits
   
72.13   Loading and unloading zones
   
72.14   Impeding traffic; no parking zones
   
72.15   Parking restrictions imposed by City Council
   
72.16   Owner responsibility
Parking, Stopping and Meters
   
72.30   Parking violations
   
72.31   Parking locations restricted
Impounding
   
72.45   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.46   Required notice to owner; sale of a vehicle
   
72.47   Sale or disposal of the contents of a vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.60   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.61   Termination of emergency
   
72.62   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction or hindrance in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a 1-
way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for commercial
loading and unloading on 1-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its 2
right wheels are within 6 inches of and parallel with the curb, except that on
1-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the 2 left wheels are
to be within 6 inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading, provided that the
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. The backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within 10 feet of the centerline of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. The diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs and shall indicate by markings on the pavement the
required angle and the width of the roadway space within which the vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park the
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for 1 vehicle.
(Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 3-19-2012) Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park the
vehicle, except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic
sign or signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02;
   (B)   On a sidewalk;
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (E)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking (this
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties);
   (G)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign or traffic-control
device;
   (H)   On any controlled access highway;
   (I)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant; or
   (J)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (K)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6)) Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day, except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting the signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require the signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day, except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall
provide suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting
parking on that particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to park on any
street so designated.
(Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 3-19-2012) Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any 1 place any vehicle on
any of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or
longer.
   (B)   Any vehicle left parked in any 1 place on any of the public ways or
streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed
abandoned, and shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city
pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer or other authorized city official shall
have the authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to
prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof
constituting a part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary
traffic signs to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent the parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of posted signs and markings or directions.
(Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 3-19-2012) Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.070 through
71.081
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of the property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.45 through
72.47.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately-owned and that unauthorized vehicles will be removed at the
owner's expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 TRAILER PARKING PROHIBITED ON MAIN STREET.
   No trailer or other vehicle which is not able to provide its own locomotion
shall be parked on Main Street, except for the purpose of, and during the act
of, loading or unloading the vehicle.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 12-5-2005; Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 3-19-2012) Penalty,
see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on
any section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway.
   (B)   However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any park or playground where at least 2 wheels
of the motor vehicle are resting on the roadway.
Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH HANDICAPPED PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for handicapped persons, when operated by a
handicapped person or when transporting a handicapped person, may be parked in
a designated handicapped parking place, or when parked in a metered parking
space may be parked for 2 hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking
limit is imposed may be parked for 2 hours in excess of the parking limit. The
motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of time necessary
to permit entrance or exit of the handicapped person to or from the parked
vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit handicapped persons to park in a “No
Stopping” or “No Parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose
of creating a fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning,
afternoon or evening hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in a manner
as to constitute a traffic hazard.
(Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 3-19-2012) Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.13 LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The Traffic Division may designate the place or places within the 2-
hour parking area of the city where motor trucks and vehicles may stop and
unload merchandise, and the Traffic Division shall appropriately designate and
mark off the space or spaces so designated by the Traffic Division for loading
and unloading. In using the space or spaces for loading and unloading all
vehicles must be in the process of loading or unloading, and no vehicle shall
remain parked in the space or spaces longer than is necessary to load, unload,
deliver, receive, collect or give receipts for merchandise so delivered or
received.
   (B)   The space or spaces are for public convenience and are not designated
for the specific use of any person, firm or corporation, but they shall be used
exclusively for loading and unloading purposes and no vehicles shall remain
parked therein longer than necessary to accomplish those purposes.
Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.14 IMPEDING TRAFFIC; NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle in such a
manner as to impede the flow of traffic on any public street, or to park on a
yellow curb, to double park, to park in a prohibited zone for which a yellow
curb or "No Parking" sign exists, or to park within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (B)   No persons shall park or cause to be parked any motor vehicle along
any curb designated by the city as a no-parking zone.
   (C)   No-parking zones shall be determined by the City Council and shall be
marked by yellow paint on that portion of the curb next to which parking shall
not occur or by placement of "No Parking" signs designating the boundary of the
no-parking zone.
   (D)   No persons shall park or cause to be parked any motor-driven vehicle
other than with the flow of traffic, such that exit from the designated parking
spaces shall not require the crossing of a lane of oncoming traffic. This
prohibition shall only apply at the locations designated in
Chapter 74, Schedule I.
   (E)   The City Council shall periodically review and approve a parking/
ordinance violation ticket to be issued by any person authorized by the
statutes of the Commonwealth of Kentucky to be a law enforcement officer, and
imposes the fines as established by ordinance.
   (F)   All law enforcement officers performing police functions for the city
shall be charged with the responsibility of issuing the above adopted notice
for parking violation and completing the information requested on the notice as
completely as possible.
   (G)   All police agencies having jurisdiction within the city shall be
empowered to issue city parking citations for violation of this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 541.0) (Ord. passed 5-12-1980; Am. Ord. 540.2, passed 5-10-1982;
Am. Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2012-002, passed 3-19-2012) Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.15 PARKING RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council may designate restrictions on parking motor vehicles
on streets within the city limits, including Winter Street and Stephens Street,
to the extent permitted by county, state and federal law. The restrictions may
include, but are not necessarily limited to:
      (1)   The designation of certain areas as parking only for motor vehicles
used by handicapped individuals;
      (2)   The designation of specific time periods for an area during which
parking a motor vehicle is allowed, or during which parking a motor vehicle is
not allowed; or
      (3)   The designation of a limit on the length of time that a motor
vehicle may remain parked at an area.
   (B)   Any restriction imposed by this section shall be marked by appropriate
sign or other indication which clearly informs the public of the restriction
imposed.
(Ord. 2005-14, passed 11-7-2005; Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 3-19-2012) Penalty,
see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.16 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined and is not otherwise apparent, it
shall be a rebuttable presumption that the owner or person in whose name the
vehicle is registered was the operator of the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation and the owner shall be held prima facie responsible for and
subject to the penalties provided herein for the violation.
(Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 3-19-2012) Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
PARKING, STOPPING AND METERS
§ 72.30 PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   For parking and ordinance violations as indicated below, the penalties
shall be as follows:
      (1)   For parking in excess of allowed time limits,    $15.00
      (2)   For impeding the flow of traffic,    $15.00
      (3)   For parking in restricted or prohibited areas,    $15.00
      (4)   For blocking driveways or alleys,    $15.00
      (5)   For parking on sidewalks, in front of handicap ramps or public or
private driveways or within an intersection or crosswalk,    $15.00
      (6)   For parking beyond designated parking lines,    $15.00
      (7)   For parking on a yellow line, fire lane or where "No Parking" sign
exists,    $15.00
      (8)   For parking within 15 feet of a fire hydrant or within an
intersection or crosswalk,    $15.00
      (9)   For parking on any controlled access highway or an area between the
roadways of a divided highway,    $15.00
      (10)   For parking within 30 feet of a flashing beacon, traffic sign or
control device,       $15.00
      (11)   For parking in an area designated as parking only for motor
vehicles used by handicapped individuals, without handicap decal or permit,
   $75.00
      (12)   For all other violations,    $25.00
   (B)   Any person cited for a violation of a parking ordinance that prohibits
the parking of a vehicle in a designated area, or manner, or restricting the
length of time a vehicle may be parked there or is as otherwise restricted or
prohibited by ordinance, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her
for such violation by paying to the City Clerk, Midway City Hall, Midway,
Kentucky such sums as prescribed above and printed on the traffic ticket as
follows:
      (1)   If paid within 48 hours at Midway City Hall: $5.00 less than the
amount of the parking violation stated on the citation or by ordinance; or
      (2)   If paid after 48 hours but fewer than 15 days at Midway City Hall,
then for the amount as stated above.
   (C)   If a person fails to pay the prescribed sum within 15 days of issue,
the sum shall be doubled in value. If the sum remains unpaid for 30 days
thereafter, the city or its law enforcement officers shall institute
prosecution with the Woodford County Attorney.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to obstructing the entrance or exit of
any place that involves the parking of Police or Fire Department vehicles,
apparatus or other emergency equipment involved in responding to a police or
fire call or emergency, or where such apparatus or equipment is kept or housed.
   (E)   The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to draw up a form of
citation taken in accordance with the provisions of this section, and the City
Clerk may exercise discretion in combining the citations ticket under this
section with another form of citation ticket.
(1997 Code, § 541.0) (Ord. passed 5-12-1980; Am. Ord. 540.2, passed 5-10-1982;
Am. Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-01, passed 1-17-2006; Am. Ord.
2012-002, passed 3-19-2012)
§ 72.31 PARKING LOCATIONS RESTRICTED.
   Parking shall be prohibited at the locations designated in
Chapter 74, Schedule II.
(1997 Code, § 541.1) Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.45 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.46 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER; SALE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
division (B), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in accordance
with KRS 281.926 and 281.932, as long as it remains in his or her possession.
      (2)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable
charges assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid,
the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in division (B), may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified
by certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), 10 days prior
to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this division shall
be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any existing lienholder
pursuant to division (A)(3).
      (3)   (a)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first 10 days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
         (b)   The notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS
281.928, shall include the make, model, license number, vehicle identification
number, owner's name and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the
vehicle, and state that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain
a new title free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (c)   If the certified letter required under this section is not sent
within the 10 days by the towing and storage company, then only 10 days of
storage may be charged.
         (d)   The lienholder has the right to take possession of the motor
vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and paying the reasonable
or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor vehicle.
         (e)   If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession
of the motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, the
towing company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle
subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190 or in division (3)(e).
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS
281.920 to 281.936, KRS 359.230 and KRS 376.275, and the owner does not
exercise the right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section
within 45 days of notification required under KRS 281.928, the tow company or
storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of
any liens, excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1))
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to the following contents of a
motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or the owner's
designated agent upon request, if the request is made within 45 days of the
date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including but not limited to, calculators,
books, papers and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices or equipment that may be able
to store personal information or information relating to a person's employment
or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of § 72.27,
firearms and ammunition that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle within
45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall be transferred to the
Department of Kentucky State Police for disposition as provided by KRS 16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks or
bonds.
(KRS 376.275(2))
§ 72.47 SALE OR DISPOSAL OF THE CONTENTS OF A VEHICLE.
   Except as provided for in §
72.46(B)(5), any contents exempted under §
72.46(B)(3), (4), (6) and (7) that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle
within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed may be sold or otherwise
legally disposed of by the storage or towing company. Any contents exempted
under §
72.46(B)(1), (2), (8), and (9) that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle
within 45 days of the date the vehicle was towed shall not be sold, but shall
be otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing company.
(KRS 376.275(3))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.60 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that parking be prohibited, he or she is
authorized to announce the prohibition, to become effective at a time specified
by him or her. After the effective time of the prohibition, no person shall
park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency
route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs after 11:00
p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city
official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following the fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized
city official under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until
he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in which
the prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in
effect.
Penalty, see §§
72.30 and
72.99
§ 72.61 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If the announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.62 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On a street or highway designated
as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this effect.
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
is otherwise provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. 2012-002, passed 3-19-2012)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   U-turns prohibited
   
II.   One-way streets
   
III.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
 
Location                   Ord. No. Date Passed
Bruen Street, any portion  540.2    5-10-1982
Winter Street, any portion 540.2    5-10-1982
 
Penalty, see §
71.999
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following street is hereby designated for 1-way motor vehicle traffic:
 
Street                                       Direction    Ord. No. Date Passed
West Main Street, the portion lying south of
the railroad tracks, west of Winter Street   West to east 92-007   5-4-1992
and east of Turner Street
 
(1997 Code, § 523.1)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Exceptions to the speed limit set forth in §
71.037 are as follows:
Street Speed Limit (m.p.h.) Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Speed Limit (m.p.h.) Ord. No. Date Passed
Ann Street          20                   -        6-20-2005
Charlie Street      15                   -        6-20-2005
Church Street       15                   -        6-20-2005
Cross Street        10                   2009-05  5-4-2009
Dudley Street       20                   -        6-20-2005
Elkton Place        15                   -        6-20-2005
First Street        15                   -        6-20-2005
Highview Drive      20                   -        6-20-2005
Johnson Street      15                   -        6-20-2005
Main Street         20                   -        6-20-2005
Martin Street       20                   2005-06; 6-6-2005
                                         -        6-20-2005
Muffin Street       15                   -        6-20-2005
Newton Street       15                   2007-01  2-5-2007
North Winter Street 20                   -        6-20-2005
Oak Street          20                   -        6-20-2005
Railroad Street     20                   -        6-20-2005
Richardson Street   20                   -        6-20-2005
Second Street       15                   -        6-20-2005
Smith Street        20                   -        6-20-2005
Standish Place      15                   -        6-20-2005
Starks Alley        15                   -        6-20-2005
Wausau Alley        15                   -        6-20-2005
Wausau Street       20                   -        6-20-2005
 
   (B)    Penalty for violations: any operator who violates this schedule shall
be fined not more than $50.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 6-6-2005)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking against the flow of traffic
   
II.   Parking locations prohibited
SCHEDULE I. PARKING AGAINST THE FLOW OF TRAFFIC.
   The prohibition cited in §
72.30 shall only apply at the following locations:
      (1)   On Winter Street from Main Street to Cross Street; and
      (2)   On Bruen Street from Church Street to Winter Street.
(1997 Code, § 541.0) (Ord. passed 5-12-1980; Am. Ord. 540.2, passed 5-10-1982;
Am. Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING LOCATIONS PROHIBITED.
   Parking is prohibited at the following locations:
 
Location                                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
From the intersection of Gayland Drive and Stephens Street -        - -
back 196 feet in a southerly direction
At the northeast corner lot No. 1 of Gayland Subdivision
to the end of the city limits at the northwest corner of   -        - -
the Midway Cemetery
 
(1997 Code, § 541.1) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; ENVIRONMENT; NUISANCES
         
93.   CEMETERIES
         
94.   FAIR HOUSING, PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS AND EMPLOYMENT
         
95.   TREES, SHRUBS AND BUSHES
         
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
97.   NOISE
         
98.   SMOKING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Humane treatment
   
90.03   Nuisances
   
90.04   Rabies vaccinations
   
90.05   Running at large
   
90.06   Poisoning prohibited
   
90.07   Expeditions prohibited
   
90.08   Wild animals
   
90.09   Keeping chickens
   
90.10   Impounding
   
90.11   Vicious dogs
   
90.12   Civil liability for damage
   
90.13   Excrement removal and containment
   
90.14   Prohibited animals
   
90.15   Cruelty to animals
   
90.16   Killing or injuring squirrels, rabbits, or birds
   
90.17   Abandoning an animal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely, or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or keeper,
including but not limited to leaving any animal on public property or roadways,
or leaving any animal upon private property without the land owner's consent.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. Shelter provided to all owned, domesticated animals,
sufficient enough to protect the animal from weather conditions that may cause
suffering, based upon the species, breed, body condition, and health of the
animal. Weather/waterproof shelter, provided to any dog or cat primarily kept
outdoors, that, if not manufactured for the sole propose of housing dogs or
cats, shall be soundly structured, with a solid floor, at least 3 solid walls,
a solid roof, proper ventilation, and bedding; and uncluttered by objects which
are likely to cause injury or to be detrimental to the health of the dog or
cat; and placed in an area that will shelter the dog or cat from the direct
effects of wind, rain, and snow, with dimensions appropriate for the animal's
size.
   ANIMAL. Any domesticated living creature, including but not limited to:
dogs, cats, fowl, livestock, and exotic pets.
   CHICKEN. Domesticated bird of the subspecies Gallus gallus domesticus that
serves as a source of eggs.
   COOP. Structure for the keeping or housing of chickens permitted in this
chapter.
   FOOD. Foodstuff that is wholesome, uncontaminated, palatable, and of
sufficient quality and nutritional value to maintain the normal condition and
weight of the animal and provided at suitable intervals or at least once a day
unless restricted by a veterinarian.
   HEN. Female chicken.
   LIVESTOCK. Livestock means ratite, cervine, bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine,
or equine animals.
   OWNER or KEEPER. Any person or persons, firm, association, partnership or
corporation owning, keeping harboring or allowing a domestic animal to remain
on his, her, or its property.
   ROOSTER. Male chicken.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Being off the premises of the owner or keeper, and not
under the immediate control of the owner or keeper by a restraint device.
   STRAY. An animal whose owner or keeper is unknown to the person who takes it
up and is an animal that has escaped from its owner or keeper and wanders or
strays about on property not owned or occupied by the owner or keeper of the
animal.
   VETERINARY CARE. Care beyond the general scope of care given by an owner,
when care provided has not prevented pain and suffering of the animal. Care
provided, whether physically or advisably, by a veterinarian licensed by the
Kentucky Board of Veterinary Examiners.
   WATER. Access to a supply of clean, fresh, drinkable water, unless
restricted by a veterinarian, which is provided in a sanitary manner, based
upon species.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any species of animal not normally domesticated by human beings
including, but not limited to primates, bears, lions, tigers, cougars,
leopards, wolves, or hybrid wolves of more than 1/4 wild, wolverine and other
large (more than 35 pounds) carnivores or omnivores, and any animal prohibited
by the Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife.
(Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 90.02 HUMANE TREATMENT.
   (A)   No owner or keeper shall fail to provide their animal(s) with
sufficient, wholesome and nutritious food, water in sufficient quantities,
proper air, shelter, space and protection from the weather, or veterinary care
when needed to prevent suffering and humane care and treatment.
   (B)   If any animal, including, but not limited to dogs, is to be tethered
by a chain, cable tie-out or similar restraint, the tether shall be attached to
a properly fitting collar or harness designed to be a holding device. The
tether and collar shall be of a weight and material appropriate for the
species, breed, condition, and size of the animal. Furthermore, they cannot be
of a weight which will cause a burden to the animal and must be no less than 10
feet in length. The tether must have swivels on both ends. The owner or keeper
shall not wrap a tether directly around an animal's neck, and the tether shall
be attached to a fixed immobile point that allows freedom of movement while
withstanding the force placed upon it by the animal. The area around the
tethered animal shall be free of objects which could become tangled in the
tether. If an animal is to be kept in an enclosure, the enclosure shall allow
for freedom of movement, unless restricted by a veterinarian, and not allow the
animal to stand in their feces and/or urine for prolonged periods. The
enclosure shall be free of objects or contaminants which are likely to cause
injury or be detrimental to the health of the animal, including but not limited
to, rusty or jagged metal objects, broken glass, or harmful chemicals, solvents
or agents.
   (C)   No person shall beat, cruelly treat, torment, overload, overwork, or
otherwise chase any animal, or cause or permit any fight or other combat
between animals. No person shall allow an animal under their control to
intimidate, harass, or worry another animal which is upon its owner's property.
   (D)   No owner or keeper shall leave an animal for a period in excess of 24
hours without providing for someone to feed, water and check on the animal's
condition. In the event that an animal is found so abandoned, the animal may be
taken by an animal control officer, or any peace officer, and impounded in the
animal shelter. The animal, if taken from private property, shall be kept at
the Animal Control Facility until either relinquished by the owner or keeper,
or custody of the animal is determined by judicial process.
   (E)   This chapter does not preclude appropriate authorities or individuals
from filing criminal charges und KRS 525.125 or KRS 525.130 which relate to
cruelty to animals.
(Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-5-2020)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 NUISANCES.
   (A)   No owner or keeper shall harbor any animal, including but not limited
to dogs and cats, if the animal commits any of the following objectionable
actions, each of which is declared to be a public nuisance within the city.
      (1)   Habitually making noises, including but not limited to barking,
howling, yelping, or meowing loud enough to be heard beyond the premises where
it is kept or harbored, or while trespassing on any property or premises not
owned by the owner or keeper of the animal. This does not pertain to noises
made in response to unusual circumstances or deemed as typical response
behavior.
      (2)   Habitually trespassing on any property or premises not owned or
occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal.
      (3)   Habitually turning over, getting into, or otherwise damaging or
disturbing items of personal or public property located on any premises other
than those owned or occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal.
      (4)   Habitually defecating on any property or premises not owned or
occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal.
      (5)   Habitually running after, jumping on, chasing, barking at, biting
at, or in any other way frightening, molesting or scaring any person other than
the owner or keeper of the animal and the members of the owner's immediate
family.
   (B)   An animal control officer, or any peace officer, upon receiving a
nuisance complaint, shall investigate the complaint and may issue written
notice to the owner or keeper, secure a criminal complaint for violating the
nuisance ordinance, seize the animal, or both charge and seize.
(Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 RABIES VACCINATIONS.
   The owner or keeper of any animal over 4 months of age shall have the animal
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian. The veterinarian who
vaccinates the animal shall issue to the owner thereof a vaccination
certificate. The certificate shall bear the name and address of the
veterinarian who issued it, along with a certificate number. The veterinarian
shall also furnish each owner with a metal tag bearing the certificate number
and the year of the vaccination.
(Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to permit any animal, excluding
cats, to be running large within the city. The owner or keeper shall keep the
animal behind a fence or on a visible leash at all times. An owner or keeper is
deemed to have permitted the animal to run at large if a condition exists that
the owner or keeper was, or should have been aware of that would allow the
animal to run at large.
(Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-10, passed 10-5-2020)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 POISONING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any poison, of any description,
or any toxic substance, in any place on his or her premises or elsewhere, where
it may be easily found and consumed by an animal, other than rats, mice or
other rodents.
(1997 Code, § 1022.2) (Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-010,
passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 EXHIBITIONS PROHIBITED.
   Exhibitions of wild or vicious animals for display or for exhibition
purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee, is prohibited unless the
exhibitioner is licensed or permitted to do so.
(Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 WILD ANIMALS.
   The keeping of wild animals within any area of the city is prohibited and
unlawful. This section shall not apply to any zoological garden accredited by
the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums; or appropriately
licensed theatrical exhibits, carnivals, circuses, authorized wildlife
rehabilitators, licensed veterinary hospitals, or federally licensed research
institutions.
(Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  KEEPING CHICKENS.
   (A)   The city will allow residents of the city to keep chickens as pets,
subject to the requirements of this chapter, on single-family residences, or
duplexes if both parties are in agreement; unless the presence of any
particular chicken or chickens endangers the health, safety, peace, quiet,
comfort, enjoyment or otherwise becomes a public nuisance to nearby residents
or occupants.
   (B)   No person shall keep chickens inside a single-family or multi-family
dwelling unit.
   (C)   No roosters are allowed.
   (D)   A standalone coop is required to house the chickens. Coops must be
constructed and maintained to meet the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Located in the rear or side yard.
      (2)   Located at least 8 feet from the rear or side property lines and at
least 15 feet from a neighboring residence.
      (3)   Of a reasonable size to accommodate the number of birds.
      (4)   One standard door to allow humans to access the coop, and 1 door
for birds (if above ground level must also provide a stable ramp.)
      (5)   Adequate ventilation and/or insulation to maintain a comfortable
coop temperature.
      (6)   Coop construction and materials must be adequate to prevent access
by dogs, cats, rodents, and other animals.
      (7)   All coops shall be functionally constructed and maintained.
   (E)   A run or exercise area is required to meet the following minimum
standards:
      (1)   Located in the rear or side yard.
      (2)   Adequate space for hens to move about freely.
      (3)   A minimum of 1 gate to allow human access.
      (4)   Adequate cover to keep the hens inside the run and predators out.
   (F)   Any coop, fowl house, or fenced pen area shall be kept clean, sanitary
and free from excessive accumulation of chicken excrement and objectionable
odors.
(Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Dogs running at large may be taken by an animal control officer, or
any peace officer and impounded in the animal shelter and confined in a humane
manner.
   (B)   Any cat found to be sick or injured shall be declared to be a public
health hazard, and may be seized by an animal control officer, or any peace
officer and impounded in the animal shelter and confined in a humane manner,
unless the cat is suffering, whereupon it shall be transported immediately to a
veterinarian clinic for treatment and/or euthanizing.
   (C)   An animal control officer, or any peace officer may impound any cat
committing acts which constitute a nuisance as defined in §
90.03. Any cat impounded shall be transported forthwith to the animal shelter
and confined in a humane manner.
   (D)   All impounded dogs and cats, excepting feral cats, shall be kept for
not less than 5 days, unless reclaimed or relinquished by their owner or
keeper. Upon impoundment, if an owner is known, the Animal Control Officer or
peace officer shall immediately notify the owner orally or by written notice of
the impoundment of the animal. Any animal not claimed or relinquished by its
owner or keeper within 5 days of its impoundment may be placed in a suitable
new home or humanely euthanized as determined by the officials of the animal
shelter. In the event that an animal is to be adopted out rather than
euthanized, the prospective adoptive owner shall first purchase a rabies
vaccination voucher from the animal control shelter and have the animal
sexually altered, if not already done, within 10 days.
   (E)   An owner or keeper reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay boarding,
vaccination, redemption and other related costs to the Woodford County Animal
Shelter. Proof of vaccination for rabies shall be provided before the animal is
released. If proof is not provided the owner or keeper shall purchase a rabies
vaccination voucher from the animal shelter before the animal is released.
(Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 VICIOUS DOGS.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog that bites or fiercely attacks any
person. This provision shall not apply to any case wherein the person bitten or
attacked has entered the animal's enclosure without permission.
(Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 CIVIL LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE.
   Any and all damages to persons or private property by an animal shall be the
responsibility of the owner or keeper of the animal.
(Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99 
§ 90.13 EXCREMENT REMOVAL AND CONAINMENT.
   Any person having an animal under their control on public property shall
carry with them some device for the removal and containment of such animal's
excrement. Any person having an animal under their control on another owner's
property shall carry with them some device for the removal and containment of
such animal's excrement, absent that owner's consent not to do so. No person
shall fail to remove any excrement deposited by any animal under their control
on public or private property. This section shall not apply to guide dogs under
the control of a blind person.
(Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep or harbor within the city limits, except where zoned
agricultural, any livestock, roosters, peafowl, geese, swans or turkeys.
(Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to unnecessarily beat, torture or otherwise
mistreat any animal.
(1997 Code, § 1022.1) (Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-10,
passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 KILLING OR INJURING SQUIRRELS, RABBITS, OR BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, injure, pursue, molest or
attempt to injure any squirrels, rabbits, or birds.
(1997 Code, § 1022.4) (Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-010,
passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 ABANDONING AN ANIMAL.
   No person shall abandon any domesticated animal.
(Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any violator shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $250, or
confined in the Woodford County Detention Center for not more than 90 days, or
both, at the discretion of the court.
(Am. Ord. 2012-004, passed 5-7-2012; Am. Ord. 2018-04, passed 7-2-2018; Am.
Ord. 2020-010, passed 10-5-2020)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.001   Opening permit required
   
91.002   Application and cash deposit
   
91.003   Restoration of pavement
   
91.004   Barriers around excavations
   
91.005   Warning lights
   
91.006   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.015   Public meeting required
   
91.016   Notice requirements
   
91.017   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.018   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
91.019   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
91.020   Exemptions from meeting requirement
Obstructions
   
91.030   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.031   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.032   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.033   Removal of ice and snow
Street Access; Special Events, Uses
   
91.045   Access by water/sewer contractors to city streets and rights-of-way
   
91.046   Temporary closure of city streets and sidewalks; permit procedure
Sidewalks
   
91.060   Repair, maintenance, removal and replacement
   
91.061   Commercial activities on sidewalks
Encroachments
   
91.075   Encroachment permit required
   
91.076   Requirements for issuance of permit
   
91.077   Compliance required prior to building permit
   
91.078   Limitation of applicability
 
   
91.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   House numbers required for street addresses, see §
33.01
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.001 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.002 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the City Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and other
facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash
deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the
authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.003 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or, where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make the fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.002 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except that part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk/Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.004 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.005 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least 2 illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously posted
on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the space
involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least 1 additional lamp for each added
50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the City Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the City Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract therefor,
for a period not exceeding 1 year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who
shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the
work. The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for
the different kinds of work with different parties.
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks; construction along public roads; specifications, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks; ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.015 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state-derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
monies for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.016 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state-derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda.
(KRS 174.100(1))
§ 91.017 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the meeting, the city shall allow any person to speak with regard
to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be built or
done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and
any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1))
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2))
§ 91.018 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state-derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3))
§ 91.019 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4))
§ 91.020 EXEMPTIONS FROM MEETING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.030 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.031 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.032 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, lessee
or person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any
street or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, furniture, umbrellas or substances of any kind, so as to interfere
with the free and unobstructed use thereof. All items of the nature herein
above described or any items that are set forth on the sidewalk shall not be
placed closer than 4 feet to the curb or any city fixture so that there is
adequate clearance permitting the passage of pedestrians including pedestrians
who are handicapped.
(Am. Ord. 2008-006, passed 6-16-2008) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.033 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.999
STREET ACCESS; SPECIAL EVENTS, USES
§ 91.045 ACCESS BY WATER/SEWER CONTRACTORS TO CITY STREETS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The city authorizes all contractors and subcontractors associated with
the construction of water and sewer lines, and sewer plant facilities for the
city, either directly or indirectly, to operate construction equipment, cars,
trucks and other related vehicles upon the streets and property of the city.
   (B)   The operation of construction equipment and vehicles allowed by
division (A) of this section shall be in accordance with normal safety
practices and procedures, and the equipment and vehicles shall not be operated
in a negligent manner.
   (C)   Engineers and contractors employed by the city for the construction of
water lines, sewer lines and sewer plant expansion facilities shall be allowed
to construct the facilities and lines within the right- of-way boundaries of
any public streets of the city, or under public streets of the city, when so
required by the final construction plans for a project.
(1997 Code, § 640.1) (Ord. 610.9, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 91.046 TEMPORARY CLOSURE OF CITY STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      TEMPORARY STREET CLOSURE.  
         (1)   A block party, local special event, festival, celebration,
concert, parade or any similar occurrence to be conducted within an area not
exceeding 1 city block or 1 intersection, in the city involving the closing or
blockading of any city street or sidewalk.
         (2)   Any temporary street closure authorized in whole or in part by
the city for municipal purposes, including but not limited to conveyance of
traffic, travel or facilitating of an event of a general civic or public
nature, is exempt from this section.
   (B)   Permit required. No person, firm, corporation or organization shall
participate in, advertise for or in any way promote, organize, control, manage,
solicit or induce participation in a temporary street or sidewalk closure
unless a permit has first been obtained from the City Clerk/Treasurer. No
person, firm, corporation or organization shall violate any of the terms of a
permit issued for temporary street or sidewalk closure or this section, nor
join or participate in any permitted activity under this section over the
objection of the permit holder, nor in any manner interfere with the progress
or orderly conduct of a temporary street or sidewalk closure.
   (C)   Application for permit. An application for a permit for temporary
street or sidewalk closure shall be made upon a form provided by the City
Clerk/Treasurer and shall contain all of the following information:
      (1)   The name, residence and business address, and phone number of each
person and organization sponsoring the temporary street or sidewalk closure. If
an organization, the application shall contain the names, residence and
business addresses, and phone numbers of the president or chairman thereof, and
all other persons:
         (a)   Having an interest or position of management or control in the
organization; or
         (b)   Who are or will be engaged in organizing, promoting,
controlling, managing or soliciting participation in the temporary street or
sidewalk closure.
      (2)   The date, or dates, and beginning and ending hours of the temporary
street or sidewalk closure;
      (3)   The block or intersection in which the closure will occur;
      (4)   The estimated number of persons who will participate;
      (5)   The purpose of the temporary street or sidewalk closure;
      (6)   Whether parking is requested to be restricted or prohibited during
the closure;
      (7)   Whether any sound amplification equipment is proposed to be used,
and if so, information describing the sound amplification. No sound
amplification equipment shall be used in any way contrary to the applicable
city ordinance on sound amplification equipment, or contrary to the city
ordinance on noise pollution;
      (8)   Whether or not charity, gratuity or offerings will be solicited or
accepted, or sales of food, beverages or other merchandise will occur;
      (9)   Whether the temporary street closure will occupy all or only a
portion of the street or intersection involved; and
      (10)   Any other information as the City Clerk/Treasurer deems reasonably
necessary in order to carry out his or her duties under this section.
   (D)   Time of filing. The application shall be filed not less than 10 days
prior to the scheduled date of the temporary street closure. Failure to file on
time is denial of a permit.
   (E)   Barricades; litter collection. Applicants shall provide and remove any
barricades and warning devices as are deemed necessary by and are acceptable to
the City Clerk/Treasurer. Applicants shall also provide for the collection and
removal of all trash, garbage and litter caused by or arising out of the
temporary street closure. Each applicant shall enter into a written agreement,
specifying the duties to be performed under this section. The written agreement
shall be in a form approved by the City Attorney.
   (F)   Hold harmless. Applicants shall agree in writing to assume the defense
of and indemnify and save harmless the city, its Council Members, boards,
commissions, officers, employees and agents, from all suits, actions, damages
or claims to which the city may be subjected, of any kind or nature whatsoever
resulting from, caused by, arising out of or as a consequence of the temporary
street or sidewalk closure and the activities permitted in connection
therewith.
   (G)   Personnel cost. Applicants shall pay to the city the cost of city
personnel who are required by the city to work overtime hours or other than
regular shift or perform duties during or as a result of the temporary street
or sidewalk closure. Applicants shall deposit with the city a sum in an amount
estimated by the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (H)   Compliance with laws.  Prior to issuance of a permit under this
section, all applicable ordinances and laws shall be complied with and all
required permits and licenses shall be secured in connection with the temporary
street or sidewalk closure, or the proposed activities associated therewith,
including but not limited to charitable solicitations, collections or
acceptance of gratuities, the sale of food, beverages or other merchandise, or
the use of candles, torches, fires or other combustibles.
   (I)   Conditions in permits. Any permit granted under this section may
contain conditions reasonably calculated to reduce or minimize the dangers and
hazards to vehicular or pedestrian traffic and the public health, safety,
tranquility, morals or welfare, including but not limited to changes in time,
duration, number of participants or noise levels.
   (J)   Standards for issuance. A permit shall be issued by the City Clerk/
Treasurer when, from a consideration of the application and from other
information as may otherwise be obtained, he or she finds that all of the
following circumstances exist:
      (1)   The applicant has not knowingly and with intent to deceive, made
any false, misleading or fraudulent statements of material fact in the
application for a permit or in any other document required pursuant to this
section;
      (2)   The applicant has met the standards in this section, and paid in
advance any fee required and agrees to such conditions as are imposed in the
permit;
      (3)   The time, duration and size of the temporary street or sidewalk
closure will not substantially disrupt the orderly and safe movement of other
traffic;
      (4)   The temporary street or sidewalk closure is of a size or nature
such that it will not require the diversion of so great a number of police
officers of the city as to prevent normal police protection to the city;
      (5)   The concentration of persons will not unduly interfere with proper
fire and police protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the
street closure;
      (6)   The temporary street closure will not unduly interfere with the
movement of firefighting equipment on the way to a fire;
      (7)   The temporary street or sidewalk closure will not unduly interfere
with the orderly operation of parks, churches, schools or other public and
quasi-public institutions in the city; and
      (8)   The applicant has provided reasonable means for informing all
persons listed in division (C)(1) of this section, and all other persons
participating in the temporary street or sidewalk closure of the terms and
conditions of the permit and the applicable laws.
   (K)   Notice of issuance or denial. Written notice of the issuance or denial
of a permit shall be provided to the applicant within 5 days of receipt of an
application, or as soon as practicable if received less than 10 days in advance
of the proposed date of the temporary street closure. If a permit is denied,
the written notice shall state the reasons for denial.
   (L)   Appeals procedure. Upon the denial of a permit by the City Clerk/
Treasurer, the applicant may appeal by filing the application within 72 hours
or 2 city working days, whichever is longer, with the Mayor or his or her
designated representative, who shall set the appeal for hearing within 48
hours. The Mayor will notify the applicant orally and in writing of the date
and time of the hearing, provided that oral notification is not required if the
applicant is not available either by telephone or in person at the City Hall.
After holding a hearing, the Mayor may reverse, affirm or modify in any respect
the determination of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (M)   Waiver of time limitations. For good cause shown, the City Clerk/
Treasurer may waive the time limitation in division (D) of this section for
filing an application and the city manager may waive the time limitation in
division (L) above for filing an appeal.
   (N)   Revocation of permit. Any permit for a temporary street or sidewalk
closure issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by the City Clerk/
Treasurer, at any time when by reason of emergency, disaster, calamity,
disorder, riot, extreme traffic conditions, violation of this section or of any
permit conditions, or undue burden on public services, he or she determines
that the health, safety, tranquility, or welfare of the public or the safety of
any property requires the revocation. Notice of revocation of a permit shall be
delivered in writing to at least 1 person named upon the permit by personal
service or by certified mail, or if the closure has commenced, orally or in
writing, by personal contact or service or by telephone. Continuance of a
temporary street or sidewalk closure after the notice has been delivered is
unlawful.
(1997 Code, § 640.2) (Ord. 92-20, passed 12-7-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
SIDEWALKS
§ 91.060 REPAIR, MAINTENANCE AND RENOVATION.
   (A)   Sidewalks reserved for pedestrians. All sidewalks located within the
right-of-way of the public thoroughfares of the city shall be used and reserved
for public pedestrian traffic. No person, corporation or entity shall cause the
sidewalks to be blocked so as to interfere with the right-of-way of the public
thoroughfares for public pedestrian traffic, except as otherwise provided
herein.
(Am. Ord. 2000-002, passed 3-20-2000)
   (B)   Abutting landowner responsible for maintenance. The owner of real
property abutting the sidewalk shall be responsible for the repair,
maintenance, removal and replacement of the portion of the sidewalk that abuts
the owner’s property, as is determined by the city when it finds them to be in
need of maintenance, repair, removal and replacement, including all costs
associated therewith.
   (C)   Permit required for installation or removal. No sidewalk shall be
removed or replaced by any property owner without the owner or owner’s
authorized agent first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (D)   Permits applications available from City Clerk/Treasurer. Application
for a sidewalk repair, removal or replacement permit shall be made on forms
furnished by the city and submitted to the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (E)   Permit fees.  Fees for a sidewalk repair, removal and replacement
permit, payable in advance, are as follows:
      (1)   Fifty lineal feet or less, $20; and
      (2)   Each additional 50 feet or fraction thereof, $5.
   (F)   Duration of permit. A permit shall expire for work not started within
30 days or completed within 90 days after issuance of a permit, and a new
permit shall be required before beginning or completing the work.
   (G)   Sidewalk specifications and contractor approval to be established by
City Council. Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with details and
specifications as established by the City Council. Repairs, removal and
replacement of sidewalks shall be performed by contractors who are approved and
registered with the city. A list of approved contractors is on file with the
City Clerk.
   (H)   Grade and line to be established. No sidewalk shall be installed
unless a grade and line are established therefor. If no grades or lines are
available, sidewalks may be installed, but they shall be removed, modified or
replaced to conform to grades and lines when established by the city at the
sole cost of the property owner abutting the sidewalk.
   (I)   City may designate sidewalk improvement projects. The city may from
time to time designate sidewalk improvement and/or construction projects by
adoption of supplementary ordinances under the guidelines of this section.
   (J)   City may construct sidewalks. The city may, either at its own expense
or on a shared cost basis, repair, remove and replace sidewalks within the city
upon adoption by the City Council of a plan for the construction or replacement
of sidewalks. The plan must show the location of the sidewalks to be repaired,
removed and replaced and contain a finding by the City Council that
construction or replacement of the sidewalks will promote public safety,
welfare and well being of its citizens. Upon completion of construction, the
cost of repair, removal and replacement of any sidewalks performed by the city
shall be the responsibility of the abutting landowner in accordance with
division (B) above, or as the city may otherwise approve and resolve by
resolution.
   (K)   Lien of city for repair, removal and replacement. For any portion or
sections of sidewalk that the city determines is in need of repair, removal or
replacement, the city shall give written notice to the property owner who shall
have 21 days from the date of notice to obtain the required permit. If the
repair or replacement of the sidewalk subject to the notice is not made within
the required period of time ste forth above, the city may commence repair,
removal and replacement without further notice to the abutting landowner and
may file a lien against the owner’s real property in the county clerk’s office
to secure payment for the amount incurred by the city for the cost of repair,
removal and replacement of the abutting property owner’s sidewalk.
(1997 Code, § 641.1) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Am. Ord. 2016-004, passed 6-20-
2016) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.061 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Commercial activity on sidewalks limited. Commercial activities and
displays of merchandise for sale or exhibit, including but not limited to
newspapers, soft drink machines, clothing, furniture, books and any and all
merchandise or inventory for sale shall only be displayed upon public sidewalk
and passways as allowed by this section.
   (B)   Commercial activity defined. Commercial activity and merchandise
display shall be defined as the offering of any item for sale by use of the
public sidewalks and passways of the city, such as but not limited to placing
of vending machines, tables, display racks and other display devices upon the
public sidewalks and passways of the city, and including rummage sales and
garage sales.
   (C)   Commercial activity not to obstruct sidewalk. Any commercial activity
and display of merchandise upon public sidewalks and passways shall be
conducted in such a way as to allow the free passage of pedestrians, police and
fire personnel upon the public sidewalk and passways without obstruction.
   (D)   Commercial activity limited to contiguous property. Commercial
activity and merchandise display upon the public sidewalk and passways of the
city shall only be allowed contiguous to the real property from which the
commercial activity or merchandise originates.
   (E)   Hours of operation. Commercial activity and merchandise display upon
the public sidewalks and passways of the city by persons owning or operating
commercial and business activity upon contiguous real property shall be allowed
only at the time that that person so owning or operating commercial activity on
real property contiguous to public sidewalk or passways is open for business to
the general public.
   (F)   Applicability. This section applies to any person who has custody or
control of a commercial activity or merchandise display located upon a public
sidewalk or passway within the city, or any person who has granted permission
for commercial activity or merchandise display upon a public sidewalk or
passway within the city.
   (G)   No expansion of use permitted by zoning ordinance. This section shall
not be interpreted to in any way extend commercial activity or merchandise
display into areas where the commercial activity or merchandise display would
not be allowed by the Woodford County-Versailles-Midway Zoning Ordinance, or to
otherwise allow commercial activity or merchandise display where not allowed by
the Woodford County-Versailles-Midway Zoning Ordinance.
(1997 Code, § 641.2) (Ord. 430.3, passed 8-22-1988; Am. Ord. 92-013, passed 9-
7-1992) Penalty, see §
91.999
ENCROACHMENTS
§ 91.075 ENCROACHMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   An encroachment permit shall be obtained by a property owner, developer or
utility installer before starting construction of a private street, driveway,
fence or work described in an application for encroachment that will intersect
a city street or right-of-way or a private or public utility that will cross or
encroach upon a city street or right-of-way.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2004-11, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2014-10,
passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.076 REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The encroachment permit shall be issued pursuant to the following:
   (A)   An application shall be completed and submitted to the city before an
encroachment permit will be issued.
   (B)   The permit will be issued by the City Council unless the City Council
designates an employee or representative of the city to be responsible for
issuing the permit. If the City Council designates an individual to issue the
permit, then an applicant shall have the right to appeal to the City Council
any denial of a permit or any permit imposing specific requirements recommended
as a condition of granting a permit within 30 days of the denial or conditional
grant of permit.
   (C)   Before issuing a permit, the City Public Works Director and/or City
Engineer should inspect the site and state any specific recommendation or
requirements such as distance, drainage and method of construction a condition
to issuing a permit and acquiescing to an encroachment.
   (D)   As related to a private street or driveway encroachment, the
requirements may include, among other things, grading, tree or brush removal,
proper drainage or retention of water flow and the installation of curves and
sidewalks.
   (E)   As related to utility installation, the requirements may include,
among other things, grading, fencing, tree or brush removal, proper drainage or
retention of water flow, construction methods, and dimensional requirements.
   (F)   Such requirements made as a condition in granting an encroachment upon
streets, alleys and rights-of-way shall not be more stringent than those stated
in a Commonwealth of Kentucky document titled “Guide for Obtaining Encroachment
Permits on State Rights-of-Way.”
   (G)   Any requirements stated by the City Public Works Director and/or City
Engineer following inspection and as a condition of issuing the permit shall be
provided in writing to the applicant by the Midway City Council or the
authorized individual issuing the permit.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2004-11, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2014-10,
passed 10-6-2014)
§ 91.077 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED PRIOR TO BUILDING PERMIT.
   A building permit shall not be issued unless the applicant for the building
permit has complied with the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2004-11, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2014-10,
passed 10-6-2014)
§ 91.078 LIMITATION OF APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not apply to encroachments on city streets existing as
of the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2004-11, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2014-10,
passed 10-6-2014)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
91.001 through
91.006,
91.015 through
91.020, and
91.030 through shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be
fined not more than $500.
   (C)   Any person violating the terms of §
91.060 shall be fined the sum of $25 but no more than $250 for each violation
in failing to obtain a necessary permit, pay the required inspection fees or in
contracting with a contractor that is not a city registered and approved
contractor.
(1997 Code, § 641.1) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990)
   (D)   Violation of §
91.061 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $100
for each offense. Each day of violation of this section shall constitute a
separate offense or violation.
(1997 Code, § 641.2) (Ord. 430.3, passed 8-22-1988; Am. Ord. 92-013, passed 9-
7-1992)
   (E)   Any property owner, developer or utility installer in violation of §§
91.075 through
91.078 who fails to comply with the requirements of an encroachment permit
shall be subject to a fine of $500 and charged with the obligation in bringing
the work performed into full compliance with the requirements and conditions
under which the permit was issued, or subject to both fine and bringing the
work to be performed into compliance with the encroachment permit issued.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2004-11, passed 8-16-2004; Ord. 2014-10,
passed 10-6-2014)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; ENVIRONMENT; NUISANCES
Section
Underground Petroleum Storage Tanks
   
92.01   Registration required
   
92.02   Tanks unused for 6 months abandoned
   
92.03   Abandoned storage tanks must be removed or bonded
   
92.04   City to notify owners of abandoned storage tanks
   
92.05   City may remove abandoned storage tanks
   
92.06   City to retain lien for cost of removal
   
92.07   City may enforce lien by legal action
Nuisances
   
92.20   Satellite dish receiving stations
   
92.21   [Reserved]
   
92.22   General nuisances
   
92.23   Burning trash and rubbish
   
92.24   Definitions
   
92.25   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.26   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.27   Abatement procedure
   
92.28   Nuisance created by others
   
92.29   Suspension of license
   
92.30   Removal of dead animals
Abandoned Vehicles
   
92.45   Junked, wrecked or inoperable vehicles
   
92.46   Abandonment of vehicle upon city street prohibited; removal and
disposal procedures
   
92.47   Impoundment of illegally parked vehicles
Littering
   
92.60   Definitions
   
92.61   Depositing litter in a public or private place
   
92.62   Placement of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering
   
92.63   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
   
92.64   Merchant's duty to keep sidewalks free of litter
   
92.65   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
92.66   Truck loads causing litter
Fires
   
92.75   Definitions
   
92.76   Fires and open burning restrictions
Fireworks
   
92.85   Definitions
   
92.86   Locations of sale of fireworks
   
92.87   Days and times for use of fireworks
   
92.88   Storage of fireworks
   
92.89   Display of fireworks
   
92.90   Sales and use of fireworks
 
   
92.99   Penalty
UNDERGROUND PETROLEUM STORAGE TANKS
§ 92.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   All persons, firms or corporations who install an underground petroleum
products storage tank within the city limits shall, within 30 days of the
installation, notify the city in writing of the installation and include a
description of the size of each underground storage tank and the specific
location of each tank. Within 60 days after the effective date of this
subchapter, all owners of property upon which an underground petroleum products
storage tank is currently located shall notify the city in writing of the
specific location of each such tank, the size of each tank, whether each tank
is currently in use, and the last date upon which petroleum products were
supplied to the tank.
(1997 Code, § 821.1) (Ord. 92-004, passed 4-6-1992)
§ 92.02 TANKS UNUSED FOR 6 MONTHS ABANDONED.
   Any underground petroleum products storage tank which remains unused for a
period of 6 months is hereby declared to be abandoned.
(1997 Code, § 821.2) (Ord. 92-004, passed 4-6-1992)
§ 92.03 ABANDONED STORAGE TANKS MUST BE REMOVED OR BONDED.
   Any abandoned underground petroleum products storage tank shall be removed
by the owner of the property upon which the tank is located within 6 months
from the date of abandonment of the tank, unless the owner thereof deposits a
bond with adequate surety with the City Clerk/Treasurer in an amount of 150% of
the estimated cost of removal and disposal of the tank in accordance with all
state and federal laws and regulations. Upon submission of adequate proof that
the underground storage tank is again being used, or has been removed, the bond
shall be released.
(1997 Code, § 821.3) (Ord. 92-004, passed 4-6-1992)
§ 92.04 CITY TO NOTIFY OWNERS OF ABANDONED STORAGE TANKS.
   In the event the city determines that an abandoned underground petroleum
products storage tank has not been removed as required by this subchapter, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the property owners, as shown on the ad
valorem tax bills for the city, by first class letter of the violation of this
subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 821.4) (Ord. 92-004, passed 4-6-1992)
§ 92.05 CITY MAY REMOVE ABANDONED STORAGE TANKS.
   If the owner of property has not made adequate arrangements for the removal
and disposal of an abandoned underground petroleum products storage tank within
30 days after the date of the notice specified in §
92.04 above, the city may solicit bids and contract for the removal and
disposal of the abandoned storage tank. Upon completion of the removal and
disposal of the abandoned storage tank, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall forward
to the property owner, at the address shown on the ad valorem tax bill for the
city, a certificate of completion indicating the date of completion of the
removal and disposal of the abandoned storage tank and the cost to the property
owner. The cost to the property owner shall be immediately due and payable upon
the mailing of the certificate of completion.
(1997 Code, § 821.5) (Ord. 92-004, passed 4-6-1992)
§ 92.06 CITY TO RETAIN LIEN FOR COST OF REMOVAL.
   Effective with the mailing of the certificate of completion, the city shall
have a lien against the benefitted property for the cost of the removal and
disposal of the abandoned storage tank plus interest at the legal rate as
determined by the Kentucky Revised Statutes until payment is received. If the
lien is not paid within 30 days, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall file with the
Office of the Woodford County Court Clerk the certificate of completion as
evidence of the lien against the benefitted property. The certificate of
completion shall contain a statement of the lien.
(1997 Code, § 821.6) (Ord. 92-004, passed 4-6-1992)
§ 92.07 CITY MAY ENFORCE LIEN BY LEGAL ACTION.
   The city may undertake legal action to enforce its lien and collect the cost
of removal and disposal of the abandoned underground storage tank if the cost
specified in the certificate of completion is not paid within 180 days from the
date of the mailing of the certificate of completion.
(1997 Code, § 821.7) (Ord. 92-004, passed 4-6-1992)
NUISANCES
§ 92.20 SATELLITE DISH RECEIVING STATIONS.
   (A)   Stations permitted within the city.  Dish type satellite television
and radio signal receiving stations (hereafter stations), subject to the
following regulations, may be located within the city.
   (B)   Permit required.  No installation or erection of a station shall
commence before a permit is obtained from the zoning administration.
   (C)   Height of stations regulated. The height of the station, should the
dish antenna be turned perpendicular to the ground, shall not extend above 15
feet; and the maximum diameter of any dish antenna shall not exceed 12 feet.
   (D)   Placement and location of stations.
      (1)   Stations shall be located in the rear yard, and behind the
principal dwelling or structure located on the lot; shall be located so that,
however turned or otherwise used, all parts of the station will set back at
least 6 feet from the inner side yard lines; and shall be set back from the
rear lot line no less than 20 feet or ½ the depth of the rear yard, whichever
is greater.
      (2)   Satellite receivers may be located on the roofs of Woodford County
Board of Education Schools and public buildings.
   (E)   Off-lot linkage prohibited. Stations shall not be linked to receivers
which are not located on the same lot as the station.
(1997 Code, § 1010.1) (Ord. passed 6-2-1986) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 RESERVED.
§ 92.22 GENERAL NUISANCES.
   Whatever is dangerous to human health; whatever renders the ground, the
water, the air or food a hazard or injurious to human health, the following
specific acts, conditions and things are, each and all of them, declared
nuisances and are prohibited and made unlawful:
   (A)   The deposit or accumulation of any foul, decaying or putrescent
substance, in or upon any lot, street, highway, or in or upon any public or
private place; the overflow of any foul liquids, or the escape of any gases to
such an extent that the same, or any one of them shall become or are likely to
become hazardous to health, or that the same shall, by reason of offensive
odor, become a source of discomfort to persons living or passing in the
vicinity thereof;
   (B)   A polluted well, spring or stream, or the pollution of any body of
water used for drinking purposes;
   (C)   The maintenance of any septic tank or cesspool;
   (D)   Keeping any building or room in such a state of uncleanliness, or the
crowding of persons in any building or rooms in such a manner as to endanger
the health of the persons dwelling therein, or so that there shall be less than
400 cubic feet of air to each adult, and 150 cubic feet of air to each child
under 12 years of age occupying the building or room;
   (E)   Allowing cellars to be used as sleeping rooms;
   (F)   A building or portion of a building occupied as a dwelling which is
not lighted and ventilated by means of at least 1 window in each room, the
window opening to the outer air, or which is not provided with a plentiful
supply of pure water;
   (G)   The accumulation of manure unless it be in a properly constructed pit
or receptacle;
   (H)   The accumulation of water in which mosquito larvae breed;
   (I)   The slopping or feeding of cattle or other animals on distillery swill
within the sanitary limits of the city, unless the enclosure wherein the
slopping or feeding is done be provided with means for preventing and removing
the unsanitary conditions associated with the slopping or feeding;
   (J)   Spitting upon any sidewalk, floors or walls of any public building or
conveyance; and
   (K)   Any imperfect trap, sink or water closet, within any building, or any
other imperfect drainage appliance or fixture within any building.
(1997 Code, § 1010.3) (Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 BURNING TRASH AND RUBBISH.
   It is unlawful for any person, business or nongovernmental entity to burn
trash, rubbish, or leaves at any time during the day or night.
(1997 Code, § 1010.4) (Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle that are
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or code enforcement officer having or granted authority to issue a
citation or as referenced herein.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
(KRS 381.770)
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective,
deficient or missing parts, and which has remained in that condition for a
period of more than 10 consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle intended for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any act, thing, occupation, condition or use of property
which continues for a length of time as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, quality of
life, health, repose or safety of the public;
      (2)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or means of drainage; or
      (3)   Interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property or
that tends to depreciate the value of property of others.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any metal alloy, whether covered with tarp or any other material, whether
intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original form and is
no longer or can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In an unusable condition as originally intended;
having defective or missing parts; or in condition generally as to be unfit for
further use as a conveyance.
(Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 92.25 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be subject to a notice of violation
and enforced as is provided in this chapter or in accordance with any other
applicable ordinances and provisions of law.
(Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a property owner, occupant or person having
control or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance
to develop or to exist thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack of wood
or other objects standing in a condition that is reasonably likely, if the
condition is allowed to continue, to endanger the life, limb or property of, or
cause hurt, damage or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or
public ways adjacent thereto, by the falling or collapsing thereof or of any of
its parts.
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, rubbish, garbage or other waste material which endangers the
public health, welfare or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it may ignite or catch fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents or
insects, or blow into any street, sidewalk or the property of another.
      (3)   Storage of explosives or flammables. The storage of explosive or
flammable material which creates a safety hazard to other property or persons
in the vicinity.
      (4)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass or other
vegetation, meaning, unless otherwise provided, growth to a height of 12 inches
or more.
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, drain, excavation or vault situated upon
private premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks and drainage.
The growing and lack of maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way
interferes with the passage of the public upon and use of sidewalk and public
streets and throughways, or construction or maintenance of streets or
sidewalks, or that causes injury or damage to streets or sidewalks, or
constitutes an obstruction to natural drainage or public drainage ways.
      (7)   Keeping of animals. Failing to keep an animal(s) in a pen, yard,
lot or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and confined from wandering off
the property where kept and free of preventable offensive odors to property
owners in the vicinity and passersby. Failing to constrain, repress and control
excessive noise made by animals such that it annoys or disturbs the peace,
quiet, comfort, repose and the quality of life of neighbors and the right of
them to enjoy their own property.
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles; water craft. The storing within
the city limits of motor vehicles or equipment in an inoperative condition,
motor vehicles, water craft or equipment unfit for further use, automobile
parts or scrap metal except on a premises authorized by the city or the
Woodford-Versailles-Midway Planning and Zoning Commission for those specific
purposes.
(Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard, source of filth, or any of the conditions identified in §§
92.20 through
92.26 to develop thereon.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
153.17, if a Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on his or her personal
observation or investigation, that a nuisance situation has occurred, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall issue a notice of violation pursuant to §
153.09(B). Upon the failure of the owner of the property to abate the nuisance,
the Mayor or his or her designee is authorized to send employees upon the
property to abate the situation.
   (C)   If the owner, occupant, or person with control or management of the
property fails or refuses to abate the nuisance within the time specified in
the written notice, the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a
citation pursuant to §
153.09(C).
(KRS 381.770) (Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020; Am. Ord. 2024-002, passed 4-
22-2024)
§ 92.28 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it is not required that the nuisance be
created, caused or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner, occupant or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of
reasonable care they should have become aware of or known was occurring.
(Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 92.29 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is shown that a nuisance is associated with or caused by
the conduct of a business or activity licensed by the city and that the
existence of the nuisance presents an immediate harm or threat of harm to the
public health, safety or welfare, the City Council may suspend the license of
the person(s) or entity authorizing or that is conducting the business or
activities with the city causing or contributing to the nuisance, and refuse to
issue any licenses to the offending party until the nuisance is abated.
   (B)   (1)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall cause a notice of the suspension
to be served personally upon the licensee, or upon any managing or responsible
agent of the licensee, at the premises where the licensed business or activity
is being conducted.
      (2)   The notice shall clearly inform the licensee of the reason for the
suspension and the conditions that must be met for the suspension to be
removed.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, and upon a showing that the nuisance
has been satisfactorily abated and that any other reasonable conditions set
forth in the notice have been met, the City Council may remove the suspension.
(Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 92.30 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   The owner or possessor of any animal that has died from disease,
accidentally or any other cause, shall not knowingly allow the animal to lie
and remain on any street, alley or public place, or on any private lot or
premises within the city, for more than 10 hours after death of the animal.
(Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 92.45 JUNKED, WRECKED OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Any person who is the owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or one otherwise
in charge or in control of premises located on private property shall not
permit any wrecked, junked, partly dismantled or otherwise inoperable motor
vehicle, or any motor vehicle not licensed pursuant to KRS 186.020, including
water craft, to be parked, placed or located on the premises for more than 10
days. Any motor vehicle herein described that is parked, placed or located on
aforementioned premises for longer than 10 days shall be declared a public
nuisance and subject to abatement.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Historic motor vehicles which are registered and licensed pursuant
to KRS 186.043;
      (2)   Any vehicle housed in an enclosed building; or
      (3)   Any vehicle parked, placed or located on the premises which is
screened from public view pursuant to KRS 177.915.
   (C)   The abatement of a public nuisance shall be as follows:
      (1)   Notice to abate. The City Clerk or a Code Enforcement Officer of
Midway shall serve or cause to be served a notice upon the owner(s) or
occupants of any premises upon which any motor vehicle, as described in
division (A) of this section, is located in violation of the provisions of this
section. The notice shall describe the nuisance and shall demand abatement
within 10 days of the notice. The notice shall also contain the following
statements in effect:
         (a)   The city may abate the nuisance if it is not corrected within 5
days after the last day for complying with the demand to abate;
         (b)   An estimate of the cost of removing or correcting the nuisance;
         (c)   That the cost of abatement shall constitute a lien against the
property in favor of the city;
         (d)   The City Clerk shall send a bill for the cost of abatement,
including administrative costs, to the property owner or occupant after the
city has abated the nuisance; and
         (e)   A notice of lien shall be placed against the property removed if
the bill for the cost of abatement is not paid within 14 days following its
being mailed to the owner, lessee, tenant or occupant.
      (2)   Service of notice to abate. The notice shall be personally served
upon the owner(s) or occupants of the subject property, or shall be mailed to
the last known address of the owner(s) as shown on the property tax rolls. If
the owner(s) of the property cannot be determined or located:
         (a)   The City Clerk shall make an affidavit so stating;
         (b)   The serving of notice upon the owner, tenant or occupant was
made by publication in a newspaper for 2 consecutive issues; and
         (c)   A copy of the notice shall be posted conspicuously on the
subject premises.
      (3)   Calculating time period. The 5 day time period for notice shall
begin as follows:
         (a)   On the day following service when notice is personally served;
         (b)   On the third day following mailing when notice is mailed; or
         (c)   On the third day following first publication and posting.
      (4)   Enforcement. The duties imposed on the City Clerk by this section
may be performed by a Code Enforcement Officer or any other law enforcement
agency or designee of the city which has agreed with the City Council to
provide law or code enforcement services for the city.
   (D)   In the event a motor vehicle is removed from property by the city
pursuant to §
92.45 it shall be deemed abandoned by the owner and may be disposed of by the
city without recourse by its owner under the following conditions. The city
shall provide notice to the property owner in the manner set forth in division
(C)(2) of this section of the following:
      (1)   That in the event the motor vehicle is removed by the city it will
be deemed abandoned by the owner; and
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is deemed abandoned, then it may be disposed
of by the city without recourse by the owner, with the costs of the disposal to
be included in the cost of abatement.
(Ord. 1012.0, passed 6-5-1989; Am. Ord. 03-07, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. 2005-03,
passed 1-4-2005; Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.46 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLE UPON CITY STREET PROHIBITED; REMOVAL AND
DISPOSAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Abandonment prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall leave a vehicle upon a city street or city right-
of-way, including the area between the street and sidewalk, under circumstances
indicating an abandonment. A vehicle left upon a city street or city right-of-
way, to include the area between the street and sidewalk, for 7 consecutive
days shall be presumed to be abandoned. For purposes of this section the term
city street shall also refer to a city parking lot or other city property.
      (2)   Conditions indicating an abandonment include expired registration,
flat tires or other indications that the vehicle is legally or functionally
inoperable.
   (B)   Removal disposal procedures.
      (1)   The Police Department shall cause any abandoned vehicle to be
removed by an entity or person engaged in the business of storing or towing
motor vehicles, and the provisions of KRS 376.275 shall apply in disposing of
the vehicle. Any money obtained in disposing of a vehicle that is in excess of
any liens shall be paid by the seller to the owner, and if the owner cannot be
located, the excess money shall escheat to the state pursuant to the provision
of KRS Chapter 393. The vehicle shall be registered or transferred in the
county where the sale is conducted, upon an affidavit by the seller that the
provisions of KRS 376.275 have been met. The affidavit shall contain
information as prescribed by the State Transportation Cabinet.
      (2)   If any such vehicle is, in the opinion of the Police Department,
unfit for future use, the Police Department may dispose of it immediately in
such a manner as it deems appropriate.
      (3)   The term POLICE DEPARTMENT means any law enforcement agency which
has agreed with the City Council to provide law enforcement services within the
City of Midway.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 1-4-2005; Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 92.47 IMPOUNDMENT OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Police Department is authorized to remove and tow away, or have
removed and towed away by a commercial towing service, any vehicle illegally
parked in any place where the parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant, obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle, or obstructs the entrance to any driveway or
alley, or has been illegally parked for a period of over 24 hours on any city
street, city parking lot or other city property.
   (B)   Vehicles towed away for being illegally parked shall be stored in a
safe place and shall be restored to the owner or operator of the vehicle upon
the payment of the traffic fine imposed plus the actual cost in towing and
storing the vehicle.
   (C)   Any entity or person engaged in the business of storing or towing
motor vehicles in either a private capacity or for the city who has
substantially complied with the requirements of applicable law shall have a
lien on the motor vehicle for the reasonable or agreed charges for storing or
towing the vehicle as long as it remains in his, her or its possession. If
after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or agreed charges for storing or
towing a motor vehicle have not been paid, the motor vehicle may be sold to pay
the charges after the owner has been notified by certified mail 10 days prior
to the time and place of the sale. Should the proceeds of the sale of any
vehicle pursuant to this section be insufficient to satisfy the accrued charges
for towing, transporting and/or storage, the sale and collection of proceeds
shall not constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment of
unpaid towing, transporting and/or storage charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. This lien shall be subject to prior recorded
liens.
   (D)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title issued
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail within the
first 15 days of impoundment. The letter shall include the make, model, license
number, vehicle identification number, owner's name and last known address, and
tentative date of sale for the vehicle. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the 15 days by the towing and storage company, then
only 15 days of storage may be charged. The lienholder has the right to take
possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still in force, and
paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor
vehicle. Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject
to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
   (E)   The term POLICE DEPARTMENT means any law enforcement agency which has
agreed with the City Council to provide law enforcement services within the
city.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 1-4-2005; Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020)
LITTERING
§ 92.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined herein, and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare, and tends to reduce property
values.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, alley, or other publicly-owned and
publicly-used premises, whether owned in fee or as easements, and shall also
include privately-owned property on which the public is customarily invited or
entertained for social, religious, business or commercial purposes.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes including garbage,
rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles, and
solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes,
cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and
similar materials.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 92.61 DEPOSITING LITTER IN A PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PLACE.
   It is unlawful for any person or persons to place or cause to be left any
litter in a public or private place, without the consent of the owner, except
in a receptacle provided expressly for the purpose of retaining such litter.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.62 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   No person placing litter in authorized public receptacles or in authorized
private receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to allow the litter to be
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public
place or upon private property.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.63 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.64 MERCHANT'S DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot, or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
city shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.65 LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
lifter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon private
property.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.66 TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city
unless the vehicle is so constructed and so loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place.
(Ord. 2006-02, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
FIRES
§ 92.75 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING RUBBISH. Waste material resulting from construction, remodeling,
repair or demolition operations on houses, commercial buildings and other
structures.
   HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH. Waste materials and trash, including garbage, normally
accumulated by a family in a residence in the course of normal day to day
living.
   OPEN BURNING. Any fire wherein the production of combustion is emitted
directly into the outdoor atmosphere and is not directed thereto through a
stack, chimney or incinerator or shielded protective buffer screen, guard or
covering device.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 7-6-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.76 FIRES AND OPEN BURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow any building or household rubbish and
garbage to be burned for the purpose of disposing of such waste, or for any
other purpose. All building and household rubbish shall be disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 51 of this code.
   (B)   Opening burning that is offensive or objectionable because of smoke
emissions or which is occurring when atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous is strictly prohibited.
   (C)   The City of Midway Voluntary Fire Department shall have the authority
to extinguish any fire, permitted or not, that creates or adds to an hazardous
or objectionable situation. Any repeated calls to the Volunteer Fire Department
for service to a particular location may require that the fire be extinguished.
   (D)   Fires and open burnings must be attended at all times and a means to
extinguish a fire must be readily available for instant use. An extinguisher
with the minimum rating of 4-A and/or other approved equipment such as dirt,
sand, water barrels or garden hoses shall be available for instant use.
   (E)   Hot embers and ashes shall be thoroughly extinguished when the fire
will no longer be attended and before disposing of embers and ashes in a non-
combustible container.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this section or in other provisions of
this code, fires and open burns are prohibited. Fires and opening burning so
long as compliant with this section are permitted in the following instances:
(1) fires set for the purposes of cooking food for human consumption; (2)
properly protected and contained fires; (3) charcoal and gas grills, chimeras,
portable outdoor fireplaces and properly protected and contained fire pits, so
long as the fires therein are no larger than 3 feet wide by 2 feet tall; and
(4) fires of any other sort, including, bonfires, and fires set for
agricultural weed abatement, disease and pest prevention, so long as a permit
is obtained from the local Fire Chief providing notice as to when the fire will
be conducted and representing that all regulations and protocols of the Fire
Department shall be met.
   (G)   All fires and open burnings and fires may be banned and prohibited by
executive order of the Mayor of the City of Midway at his or her reasonable
discretion in emergency situations when extreme drought conditions are deemed
to exist or are declared by the State Fire Marshal to exist.
(Ord. 2015-004, passed 7-6-2015)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.85 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANCILLIARY FIREWORKS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, corporation or other
business entity which is open to the public year round and which offers for
sale, exposes for sale, sells at retail or wholesale, or keeps with the intent
to sell fireworks defined in KRS 227.702(1), with such sales being ancillary to
its primary business, with ancillary being defined as 10% or less of the gross
sales of the business entity.
   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR. As defined and set out in KRS 227.710.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. As defined and set out in KRS 227.702.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. As defined and set out in KRS 227.706.
   FIREWORKS. As defined and set out in KRS 227.700, including the applicable
exceptions set forth in that statute.
   PERMANENT FIREWORKS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, corporation or other
business entity which is open to the public year round and which offers for
sale, exposes for sale, sells at retail or wholesale or keeps with the intent
to sell any consumer fireworks as its primary course of business.
   PYROTECHNIC DEVICES. As defined and set out in KRS Chapter 227.706.
   SEASONAL FIREWORKS RETAILER. As defined and set out in KRS 227.715.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 92.86 LOCATIONS OF SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   Locations for sale of fireworks by ancillary, permanent and seasonal
fireworks retailers must be in permanent locations and are only allowed in the
Business Zones.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 92.87 DAYS AND TIMES FOR USE OF FIREWORKS.
   Use of consumer fireworks shall not begin more than 3 days prior to and not
more than 3 days following for the listed holidays: New Year's Eve, New Year's
Day, Memorial Day, July 4th and Labor Day. Times shall not begin earlier than
10:00 a.m. and not extend past 11:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and not
exceed midnight on Friday and Saturday. The only exception shall be New Year's
Eve. Hours for New Year's Eve shall not begin prior to 10:00 a.m. and not
extend past 1:00 a.m. on New Year's Day. Any use of fireworks outside of these
days and times shall be considered a violation of both the noise regulations,
Chapter 97 and the nuisance regulations, Chapter 92 and subject to the
penalties within those chapters of the City of Midway Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 92.88 STORAGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The storage of fireworks, consumer fireworks, display fireworks or
theatrical pyrotechnic devices at retail, wholesale, storage of manufacturing
facilities shall be reported in writing to the City Fire Chief or his or her
designee and shall comply with all of the provisions set out in KRS Chapter
227, National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1124 (current edition) and
other applicable federal and state laws with the exception that the storage of
fireworks, consumer fireworks, display fireworks or theatrical pyrotechnic
devices shall not be allowed in multiple-tenant buildings and all such storage
shall be in standalone permanent structures. All such standalone permanent
structures shall have a minimum of 100 feet separation (300 feet from any gas
station or current business that sells/stores known flammable products) from
all adjacent buildings and structures.
   (B)   The storage of such fireworks shall only be permitted in Industrial
Zoning and also comply with applicable city building and fire regulations,
zoning ordinances and business registration requirements and the notification
to the Fire Chief or his or her designee shall include a zoning verification
letter and a copy of the city's business registration form. The notification
shall also include a site plan, drawn to scale of not less than 1" = 50',
showing the size of the lot, the location of the permanent structure, the
setback of the structure from the right-of-way, locations of adjacent
structures and other information that may be required by the Fire Chief. The
notification shall include a copy of a deed to the property or a written lease
from the owner or authorized agent of the owner of the property granting
permission or consent to the tenant to store fireworks at that location.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 92.89 DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other business entity
shall offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, keep with the intent to
sell, possess, use or explode any display fireworks except as authorized in KRS
227.710.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee may grant at any time during the
year, permits for supervised public displays of fireworks with such public
displays handled by a competent display operator. All public displays must
comply with the provisions of KRS 227.710 and no permit shall be approved
without documentation that the display has been approved by the State Fire
Marshal. The permit shall be valid only for the specific authorized public
display event, shall be valid only for the designated permittee and shall not
be transferable. Approved and licensed public display events may occur at any
specified time during the calendar year.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 92.90 SALES AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other business entity
shall offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail or keep with the intent
to sell any fireworks, including consumer fireworks. The only exception allowed
for the sale of fireworks are Type 1 fireworks known as ancillary fireworks as
defined in KRS 227.702(1)(A) - (H).
   (B)   Locations for sale of ancillary fireworks shall only be located in
permanent structures and only in Business Zones. Any permitted entities selling
ancillary fireworks shall possess a valid business license issued by the City
of Midway.
(Ord. 2014-005, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
92.20 shall be punished by a fine of $10 per day with each day a separate
offense.
(1997 Code, § 1010.1) (Ord. passed 6-2-1986)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
92.22 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100,
and each day's continuance of any nuisance or condition mentioned herein shall
be a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 1010.3)
   (D)   Any person convicted of violating §§
92.23 or
92.75 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than
$50, nor more than $500, or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days, or
both, for each act which shall be a separate offense.
(1997 Code, § 1010.4)
   (E)   Any person or entity in violation of any provision of §
92.45 shall pay a fine of not less than $25 but not more than $250. Each day
such violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (F)   Violation of §§
92.85 through
92.90.
      (1)   Any person convicted of violating §§
92.86 and
92.88 through
92.90 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and subject to the monetary fine of
$1,000 for the first violation and $3,000 for the second violation. The fine
for a third violation is $5,000 and permanent ban of any future issuance of
business licenses in the City of Midway. All fines are to be paid to the City
of Midway.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officer for the City of Midway may revoke or
suspend the display of fireworks permit of any person or business entity that
violates the provisions of this subchapter, including but not limited to, the
failure of the permittee to comply with this subchapter and other laws and
regulations involving the sale, display or storage of fireworks, the failure of
the permittee to pay the appropriate permit fees and other taxes and fees
payable to the city, and the submission by the permittee of an application that
contains material false or untrue statements.
      (3)   Any fireworks stored, sold or used in violation of this chapter may
be removed by the Code Enforcement Officer or the Fire Chief and/or his or her
designee in cooperation with the State Fire Marshal pursuant to the provisions
of KRS 227.750.
(Ord. 06-006, passed 10-2-2006; Am. Ord. 2014-005, passed 6-2-2014; Am. Ord.
2015-004, passed 7-6-2015)
CHAPTER 93: CEMETERIES
Section
Operation and Care of Midway Cemetery
   
93.01   Establishment of policies and procedures
   
93.02   Interments
   
93.03   Disinterments and removal
   
93.04   Lots
   
93.05   Decorations and plantings
   
93.06   General policy
   
93.07   Fees and costs; established
OPERATION AND CARE OF MIDWAY CEMETERY
§ 93.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   This subchapter shall establish the policies and procedures to be followed
in the operation of the Midway Cemetery and all cemeteries located in Midway
and which it has agreed to maintain including the St. Rose Tabernacle and Sons
& Daughters of Relief cemeteries.
(1997 Code, § 860.1) (Ord. 860.1, passed 7-8-1985; Am. Ord. 2019-003, passed 5-
20-2019)
§ 93.02 INTERMENTS.
   (A)   Interments will be made on a family lot only with written consent of
the lot owner or his or her representative, or where prior reservation exists.
   (B)   The cemetery shall not be responsible for any order authorizing an
interment given by telephone, nor for any mistakes occurring as a result of a
lack of precise and proper instruction as to the particular size, space and
location in a lot where interment is desired.
   (C)   All interments and disinterments shall be arranged with the Cemetery
Manager. At least 24 hours' notice shall be given to the Cemetery Manager
before any interment, and at least 1 week's written notice shall be given
before any disinterment or a transfer reinterment. The cemetery reserves the
right to schedule interment services when conflicts of time are involved.
   (D)   The cemetery reserves the right to require the next of kin to remove
from a vault and have interred or cremated any remains not in a good state of
preservation work when the cemetery deems it necessary.
   (E)   After the funeral service is concluded, and the casket is ready for
burial or to be placed in the receiving vault, the cemetery reserves the right
to refuse permission to anyone to open the casket or to touch the remains
without the consent of a legal representative of the deceased or without a
court order.
   (F)   Every interment under ground shall be made enclosed in an outer
container or receptacle of an airtight and watertight design made of stone,
concrete, brick, metal or combination of such substances necessary to prevent
movement of earth or for proper preservation of the casket and remains, and to
prevent the exchange of body fluids and embalming fluids with the earth
surrounding the grave and contamination of groundwater. All metal vaults used
shall be constructed of a material not lighter in weight than 12 gauge, and the
gauge shall be clearly stamped on all the vaults. No other materials are
approved for use as an outer container.
   (G)   All tents, lowering devices, artificial grass and other equipment used
in making interments and disinterments shall be the equipment owned by the city
and provided by the Cemetery Manager. Provisions for the use of this equipment
shall be included in the cost of opening and closing the grave site; provided,
however, in the event the Cemetery Manager determines that it is necessary to
schedule 2 or more interments on the same day, the equipment owned by the city
will be used at the interment of which the Cemetery Manager first receives
notice pursuant to this chapter. Any persons desiring other interments for the
same date must arrange for interment equipment acceptable to the Cemetery
Manager and provide the equipment at his or her own expense.
   (H)   Burial shall not be allowed to any remains not being accompanied to
the cemetery by the Kentucky Department of Health Burial-Transit Permit.
   (I)   Two persons may be interred in 1 grave space only in the following
situations:
      (1)   Two cremations in 1 grave space, provided that the first cremation
must be at least 12 inches from the placement of the headstone and the second
cremation is placed toward the foot of the grave; or
      (2)   One regular burial and 1 cremation in 1 grave space, provided that
the regular burial must occur first.
      In either situation, proper identification of both interments must appear
on the memorial erected on the grave site.
   (J)   The lot owner is required to provide a suitable memorial marker
identifying each set of remains in a particular lot. If the owner of the lot or
the family of the person interred has not paid for the installation of a marker
for the grave within 2 years of the interment of the family member, the Special
Care Endowment Fund or the city from its general fund may at their discretion
pay for the cost of a marker and claim a lien against any open and unused grave
spaces within the lot.
   (K)   Upon reaching the boundary of the cemetery, all funerals and
transportation of remains shall be under the supervision of the cemetery
management. The Manager, or his or her appointed representative, shall be
required to be present at and to superintend every interment.
   (L)   The interment fees provided by this subchapter shall be paid before an
interment can be made.
(1997 Code, § 860.2) (Ord. 860.1, passed 8-10-1981; Ord. passed 7-8-1985; Am.
Ord. 92-021, passed 12-7-1992; Am. Ord. 2009-23, passed 12-21-2009; Am. Ord.
2019-003, passed 5-20-2019; Am. Ord. 2022-010, passed 11-21-2022)
§ 93.03 DISINTERMENTS AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   A disinterment order must be signed by the lot owner and the next of
kin, or be subject to an order of court, before any disinterment will be made.
   (B)   The cemetery reserves the right to disinter and remove to a single
grave any set of remains interred on a lot for which the purchase price of the
lot has not been paid according to the terms of any agreement between the lot
owner and the city.
   (C)   The cemetery shall exercise due care in making a disinterment and
removal of the remains, but it shall assume no liability for damage to any
casket, burial case or urn incurred in making the disinterment or removal.
(1997 Code, § 860.3) (Ord. 860.1, passed 8-10-1981; Ord. passed 7-8-1985)
§ 93.04 LOTS.
   (A)   (1)   The purchase price of a cemetery lot is payable at the time of
purchase, except that a purchaser may pay on the installment plan in equal
monthly installments for a time period not to exceed 12 months, all of which
terms shall be specifically described in a document signed by the purchasers.
Failure of the purchaser to make all payments pursuant to the installment plan
shall allow the city to cancel the installment purchase contract and to remove
the purchaser as owner of the lot.
      (2)   This provision is effective as of July 1, 2003.
   (B)   No marker or memorial shall be placed on any grave or lot until the
purchase price of the grave or lot has been paid in full.
   (C)   No interment shall occur on any grave or lot until the purchase price
of the lot has been paid in full.
   (D)   No sale, transfer or assessment will be permitted of any portion of a
lot of smaller size than the lot conveyed to the lot owner by the cemetery,
except by the consent of the City Council. Any owner of a lot may give
permission, by written order, for the burial of the remains of any person but
not for money or other consideration or profit. Permission for burial may be
refused if a lot owner accepts any compensation or payment for the right to
make a burial on his or her lot.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of the lot owner to notify the cemetery
of any change in his or her address. Notices mailed to a lot owner at the last
address on file in the cemetery office shall be considered sufficient and
proper notification.
   (F)   (1)   The private sale of a lot, or a portion thereof, after the
effective date of this subchapter is hereby prohibited, except that the city
shall repurchase from any lot owner any lot or portion thereof at a price equal
to the purchase price originally paid to the city for the lot or portion
thereof; provided, however, no interments have taken place.
      (2)   This provision is effective as of July 1, 2003.
(Am. Ord. 03-04, passed 5-19-2003)
   (G)   The management of the cemetery shall mark the corners of all lots with
cornerstones not projecting above the ground more than 1 inch.
   (H)   All graves will be given general care, including cutting of grass,
without any expense of the lot owners. The graves will be sodded in the first
instance, but a charge will be made for all subsequent sodding of graves. The
Midway Cemetery will assume the obligation and cost of normal and customary
maintenance and repair of headstones if after the passage of 100 years from the
date of installation of the headstone or the date of the last burial in the
lot, whichever is later, and no family members can be located who are primarily
responsible for maintaining their family's grave site.
   (I)   The cemetery is not responsible for knowledge of conveyances and
devises made by wills unless written notice is received and the transfer fee
set by separate ordinance paid.
   (J)   The cemetery and the city will accept contributions to a Cemetery
Special Care Endowment Fund. The principal sum of this fund shall be invested
as authorized by law with other funds of similar character, and the income
received for principal contributed for a lot shall be used for the purpose of
special care of the designated lot in the Midway Cemetery, and for the care of
any memorials or improvements located upon that lot.
   (K)   The cemetery shall cause to be removed from any lot any planting which
it may deem objectionable, unsightly or injurious.
   (L)   Single graves in single grave sections may only be purchased at the
time of need. The interment fee and the price of a single grave must be paid
before an interment can be made.
   (M)   All cemetery lot purchases shall be subject to the terms of this
chapter.
   (N)   The cemetery management shall provide a temporary marker following
internment to include the full name, birthdate and date of death of the person
interred.
(1997 Code, § 860.4) (Ord. 860.1, passed 8-10-1981; Ord. passed 7-8-1985; Am.
Ord. 2019-003, passed 5-20-2019)
§ 93.05 DECORATIONS AND PLANTINGS.
   The rules and regulations for plantings and decorations of grave sites with
the Midway Cemeteries shall be set forth in regulations adopted, from time to
time, by the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 860.5) (Ord. 860.1, passed 8-10-1981; Ord. passed 7-8-1985; Am.
Ord. 99-02, passed 1-4-1999)
§ 93.06 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   The cemetery management shall have the right and responsibility to
request that all visitors to the cemetery conduct themselves in accordance with
the inherent sacred nature of the cemetery, including the wearing of shirts and
shoes. No parties, picnicking or sports activities of any kind shall be allowed
on the cemetery property.
   (B)   Persons under 18 years of age shall not be allowed in the cemetery
unless accompanied by an adult.
   (C)   Pets shall be not allowed in the cemetery, except if authorized under
rules and regulations established by the city and under conditions as may be
established therein by the city. This provision is effective as of July 1,
2003.
   (D)   Motorcycles and motor bikes shall not be permitted into the cemetery
unless they are part of a funeral procession transporting the remains of the
deceased to the cemetery.
   (E)   Riding bicycles shall not be permitted within the cemetery.
   (F)   Parking is permitted on the roadways of the cemetery only.
   (G)   All automobiles in the cemetery at the time of the arrival of any
funeral procession shall yield the right-of-way to the funeral procession.
   (H)   The speed limit within the boundaries of the Midway Cemetery shall be
5 m.p.h.
   (I)   All persons working in any capacity within the cemetery, such as but
not limited to stonecutters, monument erectors, planters or any other worker,
shall be subject to the direction and supervision of the Cemetery Manager, and
shall comply with all the rules and regulations of this chapter.
   (J)   The gates of the cemetery shall be open on such days and at such times
as established by the city.
   (K)   The cemetery reserves the right to prohibit entrance to the cemetery
by the public any time it deems necessary as a result of inclement weather,
safety of individuals or preservation of the cemetery.
   (L)   All work of any description shall cease while a funeral or interment
is being conducted. Workers shall withdraw themselves and all equipment to a
reasonable distance from the location of the funeral service or interment.
   (M)   The cemetery disclaims all responsibility for loss or damage from
causes beyond its reasonable control, and especially acts of God, thieves,
vandals, mischief makers, explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions,
insurrections, riots or order of any military or civil authority, whether the
damage be direct or collateral.
   (N)   Interment in the Midway Cemetery shall subject the remains being
interred and all persons concerned with those remains to the terms of this
chapter.
   (O)   The City Council reserves the right to amend these policies as it
deems necessary, from time to time, for the care of the cemetery and the
protection of the lot owners. In addition, the City Council may adopt
additional rules and regulations regarding the cemetery not inconsistent with
this chapter. This provision is effective as of July 1, 2003.
(Am. Ord. 03-04, passed 5-19-2003)
   (P)   The Cemetery Manager shall immediately report all violations of this
subchapter to the Midway City Council.
(Ord. 860.1, passed 8-10-1981; Ord. passed 7-8-1985)
   (Q)   No interments or disinterments shall take place on Sunday.
(Ord. passed 7-8-1985)
(1997 Code, § 860.6)
§ 93.07 FEES AND COSTS; ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City Council shall from time to time establish costs and fees for
lots and other services provided by the city as part of the operation of the
Midway Cemetery.
(1997 Code, § 860.7) (Ord. 860.1, passed 7-8-1985)
   (B)   (1)   The following costs and fees shall apply to the operation of the
Midway Cemetery, effective May 15, 2019:
Grave Type Cost
Grave Type                                                Cost
Cost of single grave                                      $750
Single grave for infants younger than 2 years of age      No charge
located in infant section of cemetery
Cost of opening and closing per grave if both opening and $600
closing occur during non-overtime period
Cost of opening and closing per grave if either opening   $700
or closing occurs during overtime period
Cost of opening and closing of grave in infant section of $200
the cemetery, during non-overtime period
Cost of opening and closing of grave in infant section of $300
the cemetery during overtime period
Transfer fee for transfer of lots per ordinance per §    $100
93.04
Cost of opening and closing for cremation                 $250
Cost for opening and closing for cremation if either      $350
occurs during overtime period
Cost of foundation installation for new foundation        $0.25 per square inch
Cost of repair of existing foundation                     $0.30 per square inch
 
      (2)   There shall be a limit of 2 cremations per grave.
(Am. Ord. 03-01, passed 4-21-2003)
      (3)   Additional costs associated with or incurred by the Midway Cemetery
in maintaining or repairing foundations, headstones or markers and involving
the utilization of equipment or machinery not owned by the city and third party
labor shall be the obligation of the lot owner and requesting party except in
the case of maintaining and repairing foundations, headstones or markers if
after the passage of 100 years from the date of installation of the headstone
or the date of the last burial in the lot, whichever is later, and no family
members can be located who are primarily responsible for maintaining their
family's grave site.
   (C)   The term OVERTIME PERIOD as used in division (B) above is defined as
follows: Saturday, Sunday or any legal holiday; and the hours between 4:30 p.m.
and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays.
(1997 Code, § 860.8) (Ord. passed 8-10-1981; Am. Ord. 860.2, passed 9-13-1982;
Am. Ord. 860.2, passed 7-8-1985; Am. Ord. 93-003, passed 2-1-1993; Am. Ord. 97-
08, passed 5-19-1997; Am. Ord. 2007-10, passed 11-5-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-10,
passed 8-18-2008; Am. Ord. 2019-003, passed 5-20-2019)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING, PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS AND EMPLOYMENT
Section
Fair Housing
   
94.01   Policy and purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful housing discrimination
   
94.04   Exemptions from unlawful housing practices
   
94.05   Unlawful practices in public accommodations
   
94.06   Unlawful practices in employment
   
94.07   Exemptions from unlawful employment practices
   
94.08   General exemptions from this chapter
   
94.09   Administration and enforcement
   
94.10   Obstruction and retaliation
   
94.11   Frivolous conduct
   
94.12   Annual report
FAIR HOUSING
§ 94.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   The city desires to implement a policy that treats individuals within the
city equally and free from discrimination in the context of housing, employment
and public accommodation on account of race, color, religion, national origin,
sex, age, familial status, age, disability, gender identity and sexual
orientation.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. These definitions
shall be superseded by KRS 344.010(4) and KRS 344.030(1) and applicable federal
and state law that may be in effect at the time of a violation.
   AGE. A person 40 years and older.
   BONA FIDE OFFER. A written offer to purchase, exchange, rent, or lease any
housing accommodation that is made in good faith without fraud or deceit.
   DISABILITY. An individual who: (a) has a physical or mental impairment that
substantially limits 1 or more of the major life activities of the individual;
(b) has record of such an impairment; or (c) is regarded as having such an
impairment. The term does not include persons with current or past controlled
substance or alcohol abuse problems and persons excluded from coverage by the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
   DISCRIMINATION. An act or practice of exclusion, restriction, segregation,
limitation, refusal, denial, differentiation or preference in the treatment of
a person or persons prohibited under this chapter.
   DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE. An act unlawful under this chapter.
   DWELLING. A building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
intended for occupancy as a residence by 2 or more families, and any vacant
land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location
thereon of any building, structure or portion thereof.
   EMPLOYEE. An individual employed by an employer, but excluding an individual
employed by his or her parents, spouse, child, relatives, or an individual
employed to render services as an advisor, counselor or confidant, or as a
nurse, domestic or personal companion in the home of the employer.
   EMPLOYER. Any person who has 8 or more employees within the city in each of
20 or more calendar weeks in the current or preceding calendar year and an
agent of such a person. Except for purposes of determining discrimination based
on disability, an employer means a person engaged in an industry affecting
commerce who has 15 or more employees for each working day in each of 20 or
more calendar weeks in the current or preceding calendar year, and any agent of
that person, excluding the United States, the Commonwealth of Kentucky or 1 of
its agencies or corporations.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY. Any person regularly undertaking, either with or without
compensation, to procure employees for an employer or to procure for employees
opportunities to work for an employer including any agent of such person.
   FAMILIAL STATUS. Any individual under the age of 18 years and who is
domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or individuals; or the designee of such parent or other person
having custody, with the written permission of such parent or other persons.
The protection afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual under the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes an individual, spouse, and child(ren), whether related by
blood, legal guardianship, marriage or adoption.
   GENDER IDENTITY. Manifesting a gender identity not traditionally associated
with one's biological or psychological maleness or femaleness.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, labor organization, legal representative, mutual company, joint-
stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, trustee, trustee in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION, RESORT OR AMUSEMENT. A place, building,
facility, store or other establishment, whether licensed or unlicensed, from
which goods or services are furnished to the general public or from which
patronage or trade is solicited of the general public or which is directly
supported by government funds; provided, however, that a private club or
organization is not a place of public accommodation, resort or amusement if its
policies are determined by its members and its facilities or services are
available only to its members and its member's guests. This definition does not
include a dwelling, rooming or boarding house containing fewer than 3 rooms for
rent or hire and which is within a building occupied by the proprietor as his
or her residence. The exemptions afforded to a place of public accommodation,
resort or amusement include also those contained in KRS 344.130.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION. An individual's actual or imputed hetero-, homo- or bi-
sexuality.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL HOUSING DISCRIMINATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, it is a prohibited unlawful practice:
   (A)   To refuse to sell, purchase, exchange, rent or lease, or otherwise
deny or withhold housing accommodation from a person because of his or her
race, color, religion, national origin, sex, familial status, disability,
gender identity or sexual orientation;
   (B)   To discriminate against a person because of his or her race, color,
religion, national origin, sex, familial status, disability, gender identity or
sexual orientation in terms, conditions, or privileges of the sale, purchase,
exchange, rental, or lease of housing accommodation or in the furnishing of
facilities or services in connection therewith;
   (C)   To refuse to receive or transmit or negotiate a bona fide offer to
sell, purchase, exchange, rent, or lease housing accommodation from or to a
person because of his or her race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
familial status, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation;
   (D)   To represent to a person that a housing accommodation is unavailable
for inspection, sale, purchase, exchange, rental or lease when in fact it is
available because of his or her race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
familial status, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation;
   (E)   To deny access to or withhold a housing accommodation from a person
because of his or her race, color, religion, national origin, sex, familial
status, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation;
   (F)   For a bank, building and loan association, insurance company or other
corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business is involved in
whole or in significant part in the making of residential real estate loans to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a
dwelling, to discriminate against him or her in the approval, fixing of the
amount, interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of the loan or
other financial assistance because of race, color, religion, national origin,
sex, familial status, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation of the
person or of any person associated with him or her in connection with the loan
or other financial assistance or purpose of the loan or other financial
assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants or
occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation to which the loan or other
financial assistance is sought. Nothing in this section shall impair the
nature, scope or effectiveness of the exemptions contained in §
94.04.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 94.04 EXEMPTIONS FROM UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES.
   The provisions of this chapter prohibiting discriminatory housing practices,
other than the prohibition of discriminatory advertising, shall not apply to:
   (A)   The rental or lease of any housing accommodations in a building which
contains or has accommodations for 3 or fewer families living independently of
each other, if the owner or a member of his or her family resides in 1 of the
housing accommodations;
   (B)   The rental or lease of any rooming units in a housing unit, if the
owner or a member of his or her family resides in the housing unit;
   (C)   The rental or lease of any rooming units in a house in which the owner
of the entire house or member of his or her family resides;
   (D)   Rental or provision of lodging by a private club or organization not
open to the general public that, as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes of lodging that it owns, leases or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of the lodging to its
members and guests or from giving preference to its members and guests;
   (E)   A private individual or business disposing of his or her property
through private sale without the aid of any real estate broker or real estate
salesperson, and without advertising or public display, but nothing in this
section shall prohibit the owner from using attorneys, escrow agents,
abstractors, title professionals and other professionals for assistance as
necessary to perfect or transfer title;
   (F)   Housing for older persons with respect to familial status. Housing for
older persons means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any program of a state or federal housing agency
that is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons (as
defined by the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least 1 person 55 years
of age or older per unit. In determining whether housing qualifies as housing
for older persons under this chapter, state or federal housing agency
regulations must require at least the following factors:
         (a)   The existence of facilities and services are designed to meet
the physical or social needs of older persons or to present housing
opportunities for older persons;
         (b)   That at least 80% of the dwellings are occupied by at least 1
person 55 years of age or older per unit;
         (c)   The publication of, and adherence to policies and procedures
which demonstrate an intent by the owner or manager to provide housing for
persons 55 years of age or older.
   (G)   Nothing in this chapter requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or
safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the owner's property or the property of others.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall require an owner of real property to
negotiate with any individual who has not shown evidence of financial ability
to consummate the purchase or rental of a housing accommodation.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit conduct against a person who
has been convicted by any court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal
manufacture, use, sale or distribution of a controlled substance.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 94.05 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES IN PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, it is unlawful to deny a person the
full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges,
advantages, and accommodations of a place of public accommodation on the ground
of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, gender identity or
sexual orientation. This section shall not apply with regards to sex, sexual
orientation and gender identity to the following:
   (A)   Restrooms, shower rooms, bathhouses, locker rooms, changing areas or
similar facilities which are, by their nature, designed or intended for
separate sexes;
   (B)   YMCA, YWCA and similar dormitory-type lodging facilities;
   (C)   The exemptions contained in the definitions of PLACE OF PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATION, RESORT, or AMUSEMENT as set forth in §
94.02; and
   (D)   Hospitals, churches, nursing homes, schools, athletic facilities and
gyms, childcare facilities, jails, penal or similar facilities with respect to
any requirement that men and women not be in the same room.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 94.06 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES IN EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   It is a prohibited, unlawful practice for an employer or employment
agency:
      (1)   To fail or refuse to hire or to discharge an individual, or
otherwise discriminate against an individual with respect to his or her terms
or conditions of employment, because of his or her race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, age, disability, gender identity and sexual orientation;
      (2)   To limit, segregate, or classify employees in any way that would
deprive or tend to deprive any individual of employment opportunities or
otherwise adversely affect his or her status as an employee because of the
individual's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability,
gender identity and sexual orientation;
      (3)   To exclude or to expel from its membership or to otherwise
discriminate against a member or applicant for membership because of that
individual's race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, disability,
gender identity and sexual orientation; and
      (4)   To cause or attempt to cause an employer to discriminate against an
individual in violation of this section.
      (5)   For an employer, controlling apprenticeship or other training or
retraining, including on-the-job training programs, to discriminate against an
individual because of the individual's race, color, religion, national origin,
sex, age, disability, gender identity and sexual orientation in admission to or
employment in any program established to provide such apprenticeship, training
or retraining.
      (6)   For an employer, labor organization or employment agency to print,
publish, or cause to be printed or published any notice, advertisement,
classification, or referral for employment imposing any limitation, preference,
or specification based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age,
disability, gender identity and sexual orientation, except that such notice,
advertisement, classification, referral for employment may indicate such a
limitation, preference or specification based on race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, age, disability, gender identity and sexual orientation
when it is a bona fide occupational qualification for employment.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall prevent an employer from:
      (1)   Enforcing a written employee dress code policy;
      (2)   Enforcing a written drug code or policy; or
      (3)   Designating appropriate restroom and shower facilities.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 94.07 EXEMPTIONS FROM UNLAWFUL EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, it is not
unlawful for:
      (1)   An employer to hire and employ employees; or an employment agency
to classify or refer for employment an individual; to classify its membership
or to classify or refer for employment an individual; or for an employer,
apprenticeship or other training or retraining programs to admit or employ an
individual in such program on the basis of his or her religion, national origin
or sex as a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the
normal operation of the particular business or enterprise; or
      (2)   A church, school, college, university, or other religiously
affiliated or educational institution to hire and employ individuals of a
particular religious belief.
      (3)   An employer to apply different standards of compensation, or
different terms, conditions or privileges of employment pursuant to a seniority
or merit system, or a system which determines earnings by quantity or quality
of production, or customer satisfaction, or to employees who work in different
locations, if the differences are not the result of an intention to
discriminate because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, familial
status, age, disability, gender identity and sexual orientation; or
      (4)   An employer to give and to act upon the results of any
professionally developed ability test provided that the test, its
administration, or action upon the results is not designed, intended, or used
to discriminate because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
familial status, age, disability, gender identity and sexual orientation.
   (B)   An employer who has less than 8 employees within the city in each of
20 or more calendar weeks in the current or preceding calendar year, is exempt
from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 94.08 GENERAL EXEMPTIONS FROM THIS CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to faith based social service
providers or counselors, to any religious institutions, associations,
societies, entities, or to an organization operated for charitable or
educational purposes which is owned, operated, controlled by or affiliated with
a religious institution, association, society or entity.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 94.09 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The responsibility for administering this chapter shall be borne by
the city's Mayor, or any other individual designated by the Mayor.
   (B)   Any claims filed under this chapter regarding race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, familial status, age, or disability may be delegated and
referred to the Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Human Rights Commission,
including functions, duties and powers with respect to investigating,
conciliating, hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting or
otherwise acting as to any work, business or matter regarding those types of
claims.
   (C)   Administration and enforcement regarding claims filed under this
chapter regarding gender identity or sexual orientation shall be as follows:
      (1)   Any person claiming to be aggrieved by a violation of this chapter
may, within 90 days of the alleged violation or within 30 days of the dismissal
of a charge or complaint concerning the same matter by another governmental
agency or state or federal court without a final judgment on the merits,
whichever occurs last, file a written complaint under oath with the Mayor. The
Mayor may designate an agent to fulfill the duties and procedures outlined
herein.
      (2)   A person who has filed a complaint with a Human Rights Commission
having appropriate jurisdiction, and whose complaint is pending shall provide
written notice to the Mayor within 5 business days of the filing of any
complaint or charge on his or her behalf with another agency or state or
federal court that seeks relief or damages for the same alleged violation(s)
arising from the same transaction(s) or occurrence(s) upon which the person
seeks relief hereunder. Upon receiving notice of the other charge or complaint,
the Mayor shall have discretion to dismiss the complaint filed hereunder. The
failure to provide such notice in a timely manner may result in the immediate
dismissal of the complaint filed herein. In making complaint, the complainant
shall state as follows:
         (a)   His or her, name, address and telephone number;
         (b)   The name and address (if known) of the alleged actor, or provide
facts sufficient to identify such person;
         (c)   Full details of the material facts upon which the complaint is
based;
         (d)   The alleged violation;
         (e)   The nature of the transaction or occurrence;
         (f)   That any alleged violation of the complainant was for the
purpose of obtaining the housing, employment or public accommodation in
question and not for the purpose of harassment or entrapment of the person
against whom the complaint is made; and
         (g)   That a complaint concerning this same matter has not been filed
with another agency or if a complaint concerning this matter has been filed
with another agency, the name of the agency, and whether it has been dismissed
by such agency without final judgment on the merits.
      (3)   The Mayor shall furnish a copy of the complaint to the person
against whom the complaint is made.
      (4)   Before conducting an investigation of the complaint, the Mayor may
attempt to negotiate a settlement of the dispute between the parties, if the
Mayor deems that such an attempt is practicable.
      (5)   If the Mayor does not deem it practicable to attempt a pre-
investigation settlement or if such settlement attempt is unsuccessful, then
the Mayor will conduct an investigation to determine if there is probable cause
to believe the allegations of the complaint. An investigation can include but
is not limited to interviews of the parties or requests for written statements
and information. Said investigation must be completed within 60 days of receipt
of the complaint.
      (6)   If the Mayor determines that there is no probable cause that a
discriminatory action occurred, the Mayor shall dismiss the complaint. Written
notice of the dismissal shall be served upon the complainant by regular U.S.
mail. The notice shall state that the complainant may request a hearing within
14 days of the date of the dismissal before the City Council, in writing, and
shall include a hearing request form with instructions on how to file that
request. If a hearing is held, the City Council may affirm the decision of the
Mayor or determine that probable cause exists and direct the Mayor to act in
accordance with divisions (C)(11) and the remaining provisions of this section.
      (7)   If after an investigation the Mayor determines that there is
probable cause and sufficient basis in fact to support the allegation(s) made
in the complaint, the Mayor shall endeavor to eliminate the alleged violation
by a conciliation agreement, signed by the parties and the Mayor, resolving the
alleged violation and making whole the complainant to the extent practicable.
      (8)   The Mayor shall furnish a copy of such signed conciliation
agreement to the complainant and person charged.
      (9)   A conciliation agreement need not contain a declaration or finding
that a violation has in fact occurred, but may provide for dismissal of the
complaint with or without prejudice.
      (10)   The Mayor shall have 30 days after completion of the investigation
to attempt to eliminate the alleged violation by conciliation agreement. If
either the complainant or the person or entity charged indicates an
unwillingness to participate in the conciliation process or if no conciliation
process or conciliation agreement has been reached with the time provided, the
Mayor shall refer the complaint for an administrative hearing. The Mayor may
continue attempts to reach a conciliation agreement after referral of the
complaint for hearing.
      (11)   The Mayor shall set a date for an administrative hearing and shall
notify the complainant and the person or entity charged in writing at least 14
calendar days in advance of the hearing date.
   (D)   Hearings.
      (1)   A hearing officer shall be appointed by the Mayor to preside over
the conduct of an administrative hearing to regulate the course of the
proceedings in a manner that will promote the orderly and prompt conduct of the
hearing. The hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to practice law in
the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      (2)   A hearing officer shall afford all parties the opportunity to
respond, present documentary or tangible evidence, conduct cross-examination
and submit rebuttal evidence regarding all relevant facts and issues. The
hearing officer shall determine what discovery is appropriate, including, but
not limited to, interrogatories, requests for production of documents and
depositions.
      (3)   Any party to an administrative hearing may represent themselves in
person and/or be represented by counsel, except that a legal entity as a party
to any complaint shall be required to retain counsel.
      (4)   If a party fails to attend or participate in a hearing, the hearing
officer may adjourn the proceedings and issue a default order.
      (5)   Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with KRS 13B.080 and KRS
13B.090 unless otherwise provided herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
hearing officer may receive additional evidence as he or she deems proper.
Discovery of materials shall be completed at least 14 days before the hearing.
All witness testimony, except by way of depositions, must be presented in the
presence of the hearing officer.
      (6)   Written findings of fact shall be made of the hearing officer's
decision based exclusively on the evidence in the record. The strict rules of
evidence governing civil proceedings shall not apply; however, the hearing
officer will abide by the general principles of evidence in an effort to
conduct a proper and reasonable investigation in deciding the truth of the
matter. All findings of fact shall be based upon a preponderance of the
evidence. The order of proof shall be that set forth in the Kentucky Rules of
Civil Procedure. The hearing officer shall have the discretion to grant a
continuance or continue a hearing in progress on a showing of good cause.
      (7)   All testimony shall be made under oath or affirmation. Any part of
evidence may be received in written form if doing so will expedite the hearing
without substantial prejudice to the interests of any party, or if such
practice is authorized by statute. Parties shall have the right to inspect the
documentary or tangible evidence relating to an administrative hearing either
in person or by counsel.
      (8)   Objections to evidentiary offers may be made by any party and shall
be noted in the record.
      (9)   A hearing officer may take official notice of any matter of which a
court of the Commonwealth of Kentucky may take such notice.
      (10)   The hearing officer may order the removal of a person who exhibits
disruptive behavior that interferes with the proceedings.
      (11)   A hearing officer shall cause all testimony given in a hearing to
be accurate and recorded. A hearing officer may upon request prepare a
transcript of a hearing, but the requesting party shall be responsible for the
cost thereof.
      (12)   Within 90 days after the conclusion of hearing, the hearing
officer shall issue a recommended written order containing findings of fact,
conclusions of law, and final disposition of the complaint. A copy of the order
shall be sent to each party and the Mayor.
   (E)   Enforcement of orders.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a recommended written order from the hearing
officer finding no violation of this chapter, the Mayor shall enter an order
dismissing the complaint. Upon receipt of a written order from the hearing
officer finding a violation of this chapter, the Mayor may issue 1 or more of
the following orders:
         (a)   An order directing the person or entity found to have violated
this chapter to cease and desist from the discriminating practice;
         (b)   An order subjecting any person or entity found to have violated
this chapter to civil penalties of not less than $100 or more than $500.
      (2)   The prevailing party may recover from the non-prevailing party the
cost of the administrative proceeding and a reasonable attorney's fee and the
order shall state same.
      (3)   Upon entry of the order, a copy of it shall be sent to all parties
by U.S. mail informing them of their right to appeal to the City Council along
with instructions for doing so.
   (F)   Appeals.
      (1)   The order of the Mayor, and the recommended order of the hearing
officer may be appealed to the City Council within 30 calendar days following
entry of the Mayor's order. Said appeal shall be in writing and delivered by
U.S. mail to the City Clerk. The City Council shall review de novo the record
at a special called meeting within 30 days of the filing of the written appeal
and may hear testimony from the parties before making a decision to affirm,
modify or set aside the order(s) entered by the Mayor.
      (2)   After an order is entered by the City Council to affirm, modify or
set aside the underlying order(s), an aggrieved party may appeal the decision
to the Woodford Circuit Court within 30 calendar days of the entry of order by
the City Council. The prevailing party on appeal may recover from the non-
prevailing party its court costs and a reasonable attorney's fee.
   (G)   Enforcement by private action.
      (1)   The rights granted by this chapter may be enforced by civil action
in state or court of general jurisdiction. A civil action must be commenced
within 180 calendar days after the alleged discriminatory practice occurred.
The court shall continue the civil case brought pursuant to this chapter from
time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes that the
conciliation efforts of the Mayor or Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Human
Rights Commission may result in satisfactory settlement of the discriminatory
action alleged.
      (2)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any
permanent or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order,
award to the plaintiff actual damages and punitive damages of not more than
$1,000, and shall allow the prevailing party to recover from the non-prevailing
party court costs and a reasonable attorney's fee.
      (3)   Any sale, encumbrance, or rental consummated before the issuance of
any court order issued under this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser,
encumbrance or tenant without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a
complaint or civil action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be
affected.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 94.10 OBSTRUCTION AND RETALIATION.
   (A)   It is a prohibited, unlawful practice for any person:
      (1)   To retaliate in any manner against a person because he or she has
opposed a practice unlawful by this chapter or because he or she has filed a
complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner in any
investigation, proceeding, hearing, or conference before the Mayor, hearing
officer, or City Council under this chapter;
      (2)   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any
of the practices prohibited by this chapter or to obstruct or prevent any
person from complying with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   To obstruct or prevent a person from complying with the provisions
of this chapter, or any order of the Mayor or City Council issued thereunder;
or
      (4)   To resist, prevent, impede, or interfere with the Mayor, the
hearing officer, or the City Council or any of its members or representatives
in the lawful performance of his, her, its or their duty under this chapter.
   (B)   Any complaint filed with the Mayor involving an alleged violation of
this section shall be processed in conformity with §
94.09.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to impose individual or personal
liability on owners, supervisors, or employees in the event of an alleged
discriminatory act or retaliation.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 94.11 FRIVOLOUS CONDUCT.
   (A)   It is a violation of this chapter for a party or to aid, abet, incite,
compel or coerce a person to engage in frivolous conduct. Frivolous conduct
shall mean conduct that serves to harass or maliciously injure another party,
such as, but not limited to, filing a false or misleading claim or defense; or
in filing or in assisting in the filing of a complaint or asserting a defense
that is not warranted under existing law and for which the complaint, claims,
charges and defenses cannot be supported by a good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.
   (B)   Upon a finding by the Mayor, hearing officer, City Council or court of
law that frivolous conduct has occurred, the Mayor, hearing officer, City
Council or court of law may award reasonable attorney's fees and costs incurred
by the City of Midway and the non-violating party against the party who engaged
in such frivolous conduct.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 94.12 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Mayor is to submit an annual report by January 30 of each calendar year
to the City Council, containing a summary of claims filed under this chapter
during the preceding calendar year, how each was resolved, and the costs
expended for same.
(Ord. 2015-002, passed 6-1-2015)
CHAPTER 95: TREES, SHRUBS AND BUSHES
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Tree Advisory Board
   
95.04   Duties and responsibilities of Tree Advisory Board
   
95.05   Planting of street trees
   
95.06   Street tree care and maintenance
   
95.07   Tree removal
   
95.08   Enforcement of property owner's obligations; liens
   
95.09   Licensing and bonding
   
95.10   Interference with Tree Advisory Board
   
95.11   Review by City Council
   
95.12   Emergencies
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish the standards necessary
to assure that the city will continue to enjoy the benefits provided by trees.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are enacted to:
      (1)   Establish and maintain the maximum amount of tree cover on public
and private lands in the city by prohibiting the destruction and removal of
trees except in accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   Maintain trees in the city in a healthy and nonhazardous condition
through professionally accepted arboricultural practices;
      (3)   Establish standards for the planting of trees so as to improve
property values, lessen air pollution and enhance the visual quality of the
city;
      (4)   Minimize hazards and damage to streets and sidewalks and lessen
public rights-of-way maintenance costs;
      (5)   Assign the responsibility for maintenance of trees in public
rights-of-way, city properties and private lands;
      (6)   Provide assistance and information to the city and its citizens on
the planting and maintenance of trees; and
      (7)   Define the duties and responsibilities of the Tree Advisory Board.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MEDIUM TREE.  Any tree species which normally attains a full-grown height
between 26 and 50 feet.
   LARGE TREE. Any tree species which normally attains a full-grown height in
excess of 50 feet.
   SMALL TREE. Any tree species which normally attains a full-grown height
under 26 feet.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying within the right-of-way of any streets, avenues or ways, or otherwise on
public property, within the city.
   STREET TREE PLANTING AREA. A planting area with a minimum width of 5 feet
between the sidewalk and the street pavement edge, located immediately adjacent
and parallel to the street pavement edge. If no sidewalk exists, then the
street tree planting area shall be a minimum width of 10 feet located
immediately adjacent and parallel to the street pavement edge.
   TOPPING. The severe cutting back of limbs to stubs within the tree's crown
to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 95.03 TREE ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Tree Advisory Board for the
city, which shall consist of 7 members, who shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council.
      (1)   Members shall be concerned citizens of Woodford County including
the following:
         (a)   A landscape architect;
         (b)   An arborist/forester;
         (c)   A member of the Woodford County Planning and Zoning Commission;
         (d)   A horticulturist;
         (e)   A member of Midway City Council;
         (f)   One member at large; and
         (g)   One member of Midway Woman's Club.
      (2)   If a qualified resident of Woodford County cannot be found for
division (1)(a), (b) or (d), then the Mayor and City Council can waive the
resident requirement.
   (B)   The term of office shall be 2 years, except for the first Board which
shall rotate as follows: 3 members shall serve for 1 year, 2 members for 2
years and 2 members for 3 years. The purpose of this rotation is to provide
continuity on the Board. The members of the Board will determine for what
length the initial appointment for each position shall be. In the event a
vacancy shall occur during the term of any appointed member, his or her
successor shall be appointed by City Council for the unexpired portion of the
term. All members of the Tree Advisory Board shall serve without pay.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 95.04 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF TREE ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Tree Advisory Board to develop
and administer a written plan for the care, preservation, planting, removal and
other disposition of trees and shrubs along streets, in parks and in other
public areas. The plan will be presented to the City Council for their approval
and shall constitute the official comprehensive tree plan for the city.
   (B)   The Tree Advisory Board shall choose its own officers, make its own
bylaws, and keep a record of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall
be a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (C)   The Tree Advisory Board will formulate an official street tree species
list, hereinafter referred to as the Planting Manual, of desirable small,
middle and large size trees. These will be the recommended species for all
plantings in the city.
   (D)   The Tree Advisory Board shall make themselves available to the city
and the public by having their meetings announced and open to the public. The
Tree Advisory Board will also make copies of the written plan available to any
interested citizen and welcome suggestions from the city and its citizens for
the management and improvement of our urban forest. The Tree Advisory Board
shall promote proper tree planting and maintenance through the observance of
Arbor Day and other such activities.
   (E)   The Tree Advisory Board shall advise and/or recommend to the City
Council or Mayor in situations where the tree ordinance needs to be enforced.
The Tree Advisory Board will attempt to resolve complaints by citizens
concerning trees. If the Tree Advisory Board is unsuccessful in settling a
complaint, it shall send the complaint, and a recommended solution, to the City
Council. If there is a complaint concerning a tree on private property, and the
Tree Advisory Board or its representatives must enter the property, the Tree
Advisory Board must get permission of the land owner or tenant before entering
the property. If permission is refused, the Tree Advisory Board will refer the
matter to the City Council for resolution.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 95.05 PLANTING OF STREET TREES.
   (A)   Any person may plant a tree in a street planting area within the
public right-of-way immediately adjacent to his or her property upon obtaining
a permit from the city.
   (B)   The permit shall be granted, provided the Tree Advisory Board
certifies that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The minimum spacing between this and other trees is recommended in
accordance with the size categories of species referred to in the Planting
Manual. No trees should be planted closer together than the following except in
special plantings designed or approved by the Tree Advisory Board:
         (a)   Small trees, 30 feet;
         (b)   Medium trees, 40 feet; and
         (c)   Large trees, 50 feet.
      (2)   The minimum distance trees should be planted from curbs or
curblines and sidewalks should be:
         (a)   Small trees, 2 feet;
         (b)   Medium trees, 3 feet; and
         (c)   Large trees, 4 feet.
      (3)   Only small trees should be planted within 15 feet of power lines.
      (4)   No street trees should be planted closer than 20 feet of any street
corner, measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines.
      (5)   No street tree should be planted closer than 10 feet from any
fireplug, at least 50 feet in advance of stop or yield signs, 25 feet in
advance of any other standard regulatory or warning signs, and 15 feet from
driveway entrances if installed between the sidewalk and the street.
      (6)   The tree to be planted should be a desirable species, as provided
in the Planting Manual.
      (7)   No underground utilities are present in planting site.
   (C)   The Tree Advisory Board shall check the proposed planting site for
compliance with requirements, and may deny a permit for just cause. The
decision of the Tree Advisory Board shall be made within 30 days after an
application is filed.
   (D)   The city, on recommendation of the Tree Advisory Board, shall have the
right to plant or cause to have planted trees, plants and shrubs within the
right-of-way of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, and within squares and
public grounds to enhance the symmetry and beauty of the public grounds. The
Tree Advisory Board shall consult with the abutting property owner of the
right-of-way as to the type of tree to be planted.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 95.06 STREET TREE CARE AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The city, on recommendation of the Tree Advisory Board, shall have the
right to prune, maintain and remove, or cause to have pruned, maintained and
removed trees, plants and shrubs within the right-of-way of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes and within squares and public grounds as may be
necessary to ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and
beauty of the public grounds. The abutting property owner to the right-of-way
of streets, alleys and highways shall be responsible for any expense incurred
by this process. This expense will be billed to the property owner. Prior to
taking any action pursuant to this section, the City Council shall notify the
abutting property owner pursuant to §
95.08.
   (B)   The city, on recommendation of the Tree Advisory Board, may remove or
cause to be removed any street tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe
condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric
power lines, gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or is
affected with an injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
   (C)   The property owner who has planted a street tree shall maintain the
tree after the tree is planted. Maintenance shall include, as necessary,
watering, pruning, removal of dead or diseased limbs and insect control. The
property owner also shall be responsible for any damage to existing utilities
caused by improper tree installation.
   (D)   All street trees within 10 feet of any excavation or construction of
any building, structure, street work or sidewalk shall be guarded with a
protective barrier of at least 8 feet square by the person doing the excavation
or construction. All building materials, dirt or other debris shall be kept
outside the barrier. Any trees damaged or removed due to excavation or
construction shall be replaced in the original location or as close to the
original location as possible by the person doing the excavation or
construction.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall intentionally damage, cut, poison or carve any
street tree; nor shall any person attach any rope, wire nails, poster, sign or
other contrivance to any street tree; allow any gaseous liquid, herbicide or
solid substance which is harmful to trees to come in contact with them; or set
fire or permit any fire to burn when the fire or the heat thereof will injure
any portion of any tree.
      (2)   No person shall transplant or remove a street tree without a
permit. A permit for the purpose of this section may be granted by the City
Council upon the recommendation of the Tree Advisory Board.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or city department to top
any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempt
from this division at the determination of the Tree Advisory Board.
   (G)   Every owner of any tree, bush or shrub within the city shall prune the
branches so that the branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp
from illuminating the public right-of-way or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of 7 feet above the
sidewalk or 12 feet above the street.
   (H)   Trees in utility easements may be safely pruned by utility companies
at their own expense. The utility companies shall notify the abutting property
owners of their intent to prune. This notice must be a minimum of 7 days before
work is to be started. Pruning must be done in accordance with ANSI (American
National Standards Institute) standards. If the utility company damages a tree
so severely that it dies within 12 months, it must replace it with an
appropriate tree.
   (I)   No tree shall be planted in the easements containing underground
utilities. The Tree Advisory Board shall provide right-of-way information to
citizens.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 95.07 TREE REMOVAL.
   (A)   The city, on recommendation of the Tree Advisory Board, shall have the
right to remove or cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees, tree roots,
shrubs or bushes on private property within the city when the trees constitute
a hazard to life or property or harbor insects or disease which constitute a
potential threat to other trees within the city.
   (B)   The city, on recommendation of the Tree Advisory Board, will notify in
writing the owners of the trees. Removal shall be done by the owners at their
own expense within 30 days after the date of notice and shall include removing
the stump and leveling the ground in the area of the stump. The notice provided
in this section may contain the same statements as provided in §
95.08(B), and if containing the statements, may be enforced pursuant to §
95.08.
   (C)   In the event of failure of owners to comply with these provisions, the
city shall have the authority to remove the trees. The city shall then direct
that the cost of removal be billed to the property owner.
   (D)   Any person who removes a tree on the public right-of-way shall replace
the removed tree in accordance with the requirements set forth in §
95.05. This requirement may be waived by the Tree Advisory Board where
replacement would be inappropriate.
   (E)   Tree planting for new development (subdivision) shall be done in
accordance with the Versailles, Midway and Woodford County subdivision
regulations.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 95.08 ENFORCEMENT OF PROPERTY OWNER'S OBLIGATIONS; LIENS.
   (A)   The obligation of the property owner as set forth in this chapter may
be enforced by this section in addition to any other enforcement mechanism or
penalty provided by this chapter or other law.
   (B)   In the event the Tree Advisory Board determines that a property owner
has an obligation under this chapter, then it may recommend in writing to the
City Council the action which the property owner must take in order to comply
with this chapter and the specific section of this chapter on which it relies.
The City Council, if it approves the recommendation, shall notify the property
owner in writing of the following:
      (1)   The action which the property owner must take in order to comply
with this chapter;
      (2)   The specific section of this chapter which requires that the action
be taken by the property owner;
      (3)   The timeframe within which the action must be taken, which may not
be less than 30 days from the date of this notice;
      (4)   That the property owner may appeal the Tree Advisory Board's
recommendation by submitting a written statement objecting to the
recommendation within 30 days from the date of the notice; and
      (5)   That if the recommended action is not taken, then the city may have
the action performed and file a lien against the owner's property for its costs
incurred.
   (C)   In the event the property owner does not comply with the foregoing
notice and does not submit a written statement objecting to the recommended
action, then the city may perform or have performed the recommended action.
   (D)   In the event the city performs the recommended action, then it may
file a statement in the office of the Woodford County Clerk asserting a lien
against the owner's property for the city's costs incurred in performing the
actions recommended by the Tree Advisory Board.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 95.09 LICENSING AND BONDING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating or removal of trees within the city without
first applying for and procuring a business license.
   (B)   The license fee shall be $25 annually in advance; provided, however,
that no license shall be required of any public service company or city
employee doing the work in the pursuit of his, her or its public service
endeavors.
   (C)   Before any license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of
$300,000 bodily injury and $300,000 for property damage indemnifying the city
of any personal injury or damage resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors
as herein described.
   (D)   No license shall be issued to anyone unless all persons who will do
the trimming, treatment or removal have reviewed the city's tree care
specifications and agreed to comply with them.
   (E)   The city reserves the right to refuse to issue a license to any person
who has violated any provision of this chapter or has not complied with the
city tree care specifications. These persons may not receive a permit to trim,
treat or remove city-owned trees for at least 2 years.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 INTERFERENCE WITH TREE ADVISORY BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Tree Advisory Board or any of its agents or servants while engaging in and
about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any
street tree, park tree or trees on private grounds as authorized in this
chapter.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.11 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Tree Advisory Board.
   (B)   The City Council can waive all or part of the costs of tree removal or
pruning if the property owner can demonstrate financial hardship to the City
Council.
   (C)   Any person may appeal, within 30 days of receipt of notification from
the city, any ruling or order of the Tree Advisory Board to the City Council
who will adopt rules for the conduct of the hearings and make the final
decision.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 95.12 EMERGENCIES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, in the event an
emergency arises so that a tree, bush or shrub presents an immediate threat to
persons or property, or obstructs a public right-of-way, then the Mayor may
take action as necessary and appropriate to eliminate the immediate threat or
obstruction.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction
or a plea of guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-2-2003)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
96.01   Midway City Park; hours of operation
   
96.02   Park rules and regulations
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 MIDWAY CITY PARK; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The usual hours of operation of the Midway City Park, located at 300
Dudley Street, Midway, Kentucky, shall be from sunrise until sunset.
   (B)   No person shall be in, occupy, or otherwise utilize the Midway City
Park at any time other than the usual hours of operation without a permit
therefor obtained from the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   Permits for use of the Midway City Park after dusk or before dawn may
be obtained by application to the City Clerk/Treasurer. The application must
describe the purpose of the use and must specify a use which will not
constitute a nuisance or a hazard to the public health and safety. Upon
issuance by the City Clerk/Treasurer, the permit will specify the additional
hours and purpose(s) of use.
   (D)   Any person denied a permit for use of the Midway City Park pursuant to
division (C) above may appeal the denial to the Mayor.
(1997 Code, § 650.1) (Ord. 95-09, passed 12-18-1995)
§ 96.02 PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   These rules and regulations apply to the Midway City Park, 300 Dudley
Street, Midway, Kentucky:
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages shall not be permitted;
   (B)   All dogs on park property must be on leash;
   (C)   (Reserved);
   (D)   The game "paintball" and any similar games are prohibited;
   (E)   Horses shall not be permitted;
   (F)   No motorized vehicles of any kind (except wheelchairs) shall be
permitted, except on designated roadways and parking areas;
   (G)   No wheeled vehicles of any kind (except wheelchairs and infant
strollers) shall be permitted on designated trails; and
   (H)   Profanity shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 6-21-2004; Am. Ord. 13-001, passed 4-15-2013) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
96.01(B) shall, upon conviction, be subjected to a fine of not more than $50.
Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and is punishable as such hereunder.
(1997 Code, § 650.1) (Ord. 95-09, passed 12-18-1995)
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
96.02 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $100.
(Ord. 04-02, passed 6-21-2004)
CHAPTER 97: NOISE
Section
   
97.01   Declaration of findings and policy
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Unlawful conduct
   
97.04   Exemptions
   
97.05   Special variance
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DECLARATION OF FINDINGS AND POLICY.
   (A)   The City of Midway, Kentucky finds that excessive noise adversely
affects the community in general and individuals in particular, and may
specifically result in hearing loss, speech interference, both indoors and
outdoors, and annoyance and a menace to the public health, welfare, peace and
the quality of life of its citizens.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect, preserve and promote the
health, safety, welfare, peace and quiet for the citizens of the City of Midway
by reducing, controlling and preventing excessive noise. It is further the
intent of this chapter to establish standards that will eliminate and reduce
unnecessary and excessive noise, that is physically harmful and otherwise
detrimental to individuals in their enjoyment of life, property, quality of
life and the conduct of business.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL POWER EQUIPMENT. Any equipment or device rated at greater than 5
horsepower in use for home or building repairs or ground maintenance.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration or similar action, but excluding demolition for or on public or
private right-of-ways, structures, utilities or appurtenances thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT. Any equipment or devices such as, but not limited
to, pile drivers, power shovels, jackhammers, derricks, hoist tractors,
loaders, rollers, concrete hauling motor vehicles, pavement breakers, backhoes,
clamshells, bulldozers, crawler-tractors, rotary drills and augers, cranes,
ditchers, trenchers, scrapers, graders, wagons, pumps, compressors and
pneumatic power equipment, or other mechanical apparatus operated by fuel or
electric power in the construction, repair or demolition of any building,
structure, land, street, driveway or appurtenance thereto.
   DEMOLITION. Any dismantling or intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-of-ways, surfaces or
appurtenances thereto.
   DOMESTIC POWER EQUIPMENT. Any equipment or device rated at 5 horsepower or
less and used for home or building repairs or grounds maintenance.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle driven or powered by any means other than
muscular power, including, low powered vehicles, road rollers, road graders,
farm tractors, motorcycles and vehicles upon which shovels and implements are
or can be mounted.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound that endangers or injures the safety or health
of humans or animals; noise that disturbs a reasonable person of normal
sensibilities or their peace and quality of life; or, endangers or injures
personal or real property.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, group, association, organization, partnership,
business, trust, corporation, company, contractor, supplier, installer, user or
owner. For purposes of this chapter, the president, manager, host, or other
person in charge of a group, association or organization and their activities
within the city limits of the city of Midway, Kentucky shall be responsible for
requiring the group, association or organization to comply with this chapter
and shall likewise be subject to the penalties imposed for violation of this
chapter by the group, association or organization.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any human voice, music, or other sound produced by
equipment, vehicles, or sound amplification systems upon or from within the
source causing such sound, which clearly can be heard at a distance of 50 feet
or more.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, alley, highway, sidewalk
or similar place that is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
   SOUND. Oscillation and pressure, stress, particle displacement and particle
velocity that induces auditory sensation.
   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any radio, tape player, compact disc player,
MP3, iPod, loud speaker or other electronic or battery powered device or new
generation technology used for the amplification of voice, music or any other
sound.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 97.03 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, cause to be made,
continue or to permit any excessive or unreasonably loud noise or any other
raucous sound, considering the time, date, place and nature of such noise or
sound, that annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, health, peace,
safety or repose of other persons of ordinary sensibilities within the city
limits. Factors for determining whether a sound is unreasonably loud and
raucous include, but are not limited to the proximity of the sound to sleeping
facilities, the land use, nature and zoning of the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where it is received, the time of day or night the sound
occurs, the duration of the sound and whether the sound is recurrent,
intermittent or constant.
   (B)   No person operating, occupying or in control of a motor vehicle on a
street, highway, alley, parking lot, park or driveway shall operate or permit
the operation of any sound amplification system upon or from within the vehicle
of which they occupy or area in possession so that the sound is plainly audible
at a distance of 50 or more feet from the vehicle. Measurement standards shall
be by human auditory senses based upon direct line of sight. Words or phrases
need not be discernible and bass reverberations are included. These
requirements apply to any vehicle whether stopped, standing, parked or moving.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 97.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   The prohibitions set forth herein shall not apply and it shall be a defense
to any prosecution hereunder if an otherwise unlawful noise was emitted from:
   (A)   Any siren, whistle, horn or bell lawfully used by emergency vehicles
or any other alarm systems used in case of fire, collision, civil defense,
police activity or imminent danger; provided, however, that burglar alarms not
terminating within 30 minutes after being activated shall be deemed a nuisance
and unlawful.
   (B)   Any commercial power and construction equipment operated in the
ordinary course of business between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 6:30 p.m.,
Monday through Friday, and 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. on Saturdays.
   (C)   Any domestic power equipment used or operated upon any residential
premise between the hours of 7:30 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (D)   The operation and maintenance of airplanes, aircraft, locomotives,
trains and railways, brush chippers, vacuum leaf loaders, street sweepers,
tractor mowers, drill rigs, sanitation removal and refuse collection vehicles
or any other city, county or similar service vehicle or equipment.
   (E)   Organized school or recreational related programs, activities, events,
festivals, parades or other public programs, activities or events properly
authorized by the city.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 97.05 SPECIAL VARIANCE.
   (A)   The city or his or her designated representative shall have the
authority, consistent with this subchapter, to grant special variances.
   (B)   Any person seeking a special variance pursuant to this section shall
file an application with the Mayor or his or her designated representative, no
less than 30 calendar days prior to the date on which the special variance is
sought to be effective. The application shall contain information which
demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or activity for which the
special variance is sought into compliance with this subchapter would
constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community, or on
other persons. Notice of an application for a special variance shall be given
by the Mayor or his or her representative to all persons who own and/or occupy
the real property adjoining the site for which the special variance is sought.
Notice shall be forwarded by regular mail not less than 15 calendar days prior
to the date on which the special variance is sought to be effective. The
failure of the Mayor or his or her representative to notify any adjoining
property owner/occupant shall not be fatal to the applicant's request for a
special variance. Any individual who claims to be adversely affected by
allowance of the special variance may file a statement with the Mayor or his or
her representative containing any information to support his claim. Said
statement shall be filed not less than 7 calendar days prior to the date on
which the special variance is sought to be effective.
   (C)   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the Mayor or
his or her designated representative shall balance the hardship to the
applicant, the community, and other persons of not granting the special
variance against the adverse impact on the health, safety and welfare of
persons affected, the adverse impact on property affected and any other adverse
impact of granting the special variance. Applicants for special variances and
persons contesting special variances may be required to submit any information
the Mayor or his or her representative may require. In granting or denying an
application, the Mayor or his or her representative shall place on public file
a copy of the decision and the reasons for denying or granting this special
variance.
   (D)   Special variances shall be granted by notice to the applicant
containing all necessary conditions including a time limit on the permitted
activity. The special variance shall not become effective until all conditions
are agreed to by the applicant. Noncompliance with any conditions of the
special variances shall terminate it and subject the person holding it to those
provisions of this subchapter regulating the source of sound or activity for
which the special variance was granted.
   (E)   Application for extension of time limits specified in special variance
or for modification of other substantial conditions shall be treated like
applications for initial special variances.
   (F)   The Mayor or his or her designated representative may issue guidelines
defining the procedures to be followed in applying for a special variance and
the criteria to be considered in deciding whether to grant a special variance.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $250.
Each day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense and no
additional notice other than notice of the original offense shall be required
to convict a person for violations resulting from a continuation of such
offense.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-15-2013)
CHAPTER 98: SMOKING
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Application of chapter to city-owned facilities
   
98.03   Prohibition of smoking in public places
   
98.04   Prohibition of smoking in places of employment
   
98.05   Prohibition of smoking in outdoor arenas and stadiums
   
98.06   Reasonable distance
   
98.07   Where smoking not regulated
   
98.08   Declaration of establishment as nonsmoking
   
98.09   No smoking receptacles
   
98.10   Non-retaliation and non-waiver of rights
   
98.11   Enforcement
   
98.12   Other applicable laws
   
98.13   Construction
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation, or
other business entity, either for-profit or not-for-profit, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold, professional corporations and
other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering, architectural, or
other professional services are delivered; and private clubs.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works in consideration for direct or indirect
monetary wages or profit, or who volunteers his or her services for an entity.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust, or non-profit entity that employs the
services of one or more individual persons. A private club which employs
exclusively from within or operated solely by member volunteers is not an
employer.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all
sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from the
floor to the ceiling.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, Optometrists, Podiatrists, Veterinarians,
County Health Departments or other clinics, including weight control clinics,
nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and
offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists,
and all specialists within these professions. This definition shall include,
but is not limited to, all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semiprivate
rooms, and wards within health care facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees normally frequent or may need to access during the
course of employment, including, but not limited to, work areas, employee
lounges, restrooms, conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee
cafeterias and hallways. A private residence is not a "place of employment"
unless it is used as a childcare, adult day care, or health care facility.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the
owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively
for club purposes at all times, which is operated solely for a recreational,
fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent, or athletic purpose, but
not for pecuniary gain, and which only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to
its operation; and, the affairs and management of the organization are
conducted by aboard of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen
by the members at an annual meeting; and, the organization has established
bylaws and/or a constitution to govern its activities, and the organization has
been granted an exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club
under 26 U.S.C. § 501.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including, but not limited to, banks, bars,
educational facilities, health care facilities, hotels and motels, laundromats,
polling places, public transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurants,
retail food production and marketing establishments, retail service
establishments and retail stores. PUBLIC PLACE also means shopping malls,
sports arenas, theaters, waiting rooms, parks and playgrounds, but shall not
include unenclosed adjacent parking lots and access ways that are a reasonable
distance from areas where smoking is prohibited, as defined within §
98.06. A private club is a "public place" when being used on any occasion or
for a function to which the general public is invited. A private residence is
not a "public place" unless it is used as a childcare, adult day care, or
health care facility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as
well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall include a bar area
within the restaurant.
   SERVICE LINE. An indoor or outdoor line in which 1 or more persons are
waiting for or receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service
involves the exchange of money.
   SHOPPING MALL. An enclosed public walkway or hall area that serves to
connect retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or other lighted tobacco product or any other lighted
substance intended for smoking, whether otherwise legally possessed or consumed
in any manner or in any form.
   SPORTS ARENA. Sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing
arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and other similar
places where members of the general public assemble to engage in physical
exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness sports or other
events.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER TO CITY-OWNED FACILITIES.
   All facilities, including buildings and vehicles, that are owned, leased or
otherwise operated by the City of Midway, shall be subject to the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.03 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking is prohibited in all public places as defined in § 98.01, above, and
attendant service lines, within Midway, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.04 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in all enclosed places of employment. This
prohibition includes, but is not limited to common work areas, auditoriums,
classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, private offices, elevators, hallways,
maintenance areas, attics, crawl spaces, health care facilities, cafeterias,
employee lounges, stairs, restrooms, and service lines within Midway, Kentucky.
   (B)   This prohibition on smoking shall be communicated to all existing
employees by the effective date of this chapter and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.05 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN OUTDOOR ARENAS AND STADIUMS.
   Smoking is prohibited in all service lines and in the seating areas of all
outdoor arenas, stadiums and amphitheaters within Midway, Kentucky.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.06 REASONABLE DISTANCE.
   Smoking is prohibited within a reasonable distance of not less than 3 feet,
from any outside entrance to or open windows of any area in which smoking is
prohibited by this chapter and from the air intake of a ventilation system
serving an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited, in order to insure
tobacco smoke does not enter that enclosed area through entrances, windows,
ventilation systems or other means.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.07 WHERE SMOKING NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
97.03 and
97.04:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult
day care or health care facility.
   (B)   Private clubs that employ from within or whose only employees are
member volunteers; provided that when such clubs are being used for functions
or on occasions to which the general public is invited, the prohibitions set
out in §§
97.03 and
97.04 shall apply.
   (C)   Outdoor areas of places of employment, except those covered by the
provisions of §§
97.04 and
97.05.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.08 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NONSMOKING.
   Nothing in this chapter may be construed as preventing an owner, operator,
manager or other authorized person in control of any establishment, facility or
outdoor area from declaring the entire campus or property associated with that
establishment, facility or outdoor area smoke free. Enforcement of any such
restrictions exceeding the scope of this chapter would be the responsibility of
the authorized person in control of the affected establishment, facility or
outdoor area.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.09 NO SMOKING RECEPTACLES.
   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area within which this chapter or the
owner, operator, manager, or other person having control of the area prohibits
smoking, except for ashtrays displayed for sale and not for use on the
premises.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.10 NON-RETALIATION AND NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any
manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer
because that employee, applicant, or customer exercises any rights afforded by
this chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   An employee who continues to work in a setting where an employer
allows smoking in violation of this chapter does not waive or otherwise
surrender any legal rights the employee may have against the employer or any
other party.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility any and all
sworn law enforcement officers who may be assigned to work within the City of
Midway, if so directed by their superiors. Enforcement shall be primarily done
on a complaint basis but can be done at any time witnessed by an enforcement
official.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this chapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the City of Midway by the appropriate
clerk.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with any of the authorized persons listed above.
   (D)   The Woodford County Health Department, while in an establishment
performing otherwise legal inspections, shall have the right to inspect for
compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Owners, managers, operators or employees of establishments regulated
by this chapter shall inform persons seen violating this chapter of the
requirements of this chapter. In the event an owner, manager, operator or
employee of an establishment regulated by this chapter observes a person or
persons violating this chapter, he or she shall immediately direct the person
or persons in violation to extinguish the item being smoked.
      (1)   In the event the person (or persons) violating this chapter
complies with this directive; no violation shall exist for the owner, manager,
operator or employee witnessing the violation. In the event an owner, manager,
operator or employee of an establishment regulated by this chapter observes a
person or persons violating this chapter and fails to immediately direct the
person (or persons) in violation to extinguish the item being smoked, the
owner, manager, operator or employee failing to take appropriate steps required
by this chapter shall be in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   In the event the person (or persons) violating this chapter fails
or refuses to comply with this directive, the owner, manager, operator or
employee directing the person (or persons) violating this chapter shall take
immediate and reasonable steps to obtain the removal of the person (or persons)
from the premises. As an example of the reasonableness required, if there is a
person violating the chapter who the owner, manager, operator or employee of an
establishment regulated by this chapter is required to remove from the
premises, but the person is intoxicated or otherwise reasonably believed to be
unable to safely drive or conduct himself or herself if required to leave those
premises, then in this event the owner, manager, operator or employee may
reasonably determine to allow the person violating this chapter to remain on
the premises until appropriate arrangements may be made for the person's
removal. In the event the person (or persons) violating this chapter is timely
removed from the premises; no violation shall exist for any owner, manager,
operator or employee related to the establishment in which these events
occurred. In no event is an owner or agent of the premises to forcibly remove
the person violating the chapter. Compliance is achieved under this division if
the owner or agent of the premises orders the person violating the chapter to
leave its premises and promptly notifies law enforcement authority if the
person refuses.
      (3)   In the event the person (or persons) violating this chapter fails
or refuses to comply with this directive and the owner, manager, operator or
employee who observed the violation or if a different person who directed the
person (or persons) in violation to leave the premises, fails to take immediate
and reasonable steps to obtain the removal of the person (or persons) from the
premises, the owner, manager, operator or employee failing to take appropriate
steps required by this chapter shall be in violation of this chapter.
      (4)   In all events, the establishment in which a violation occurs shall
be in violation of this chapter for each violation that occurs on its premises
and in connection with which the owner, manager, operator or employee fail to
take appropriate steps required by this chapter.
      (5)   An employee who observes a person (or persons) violating this
chapter may immediately notify his or her owner, manager or supervisor of the
violation in satisfaction of the employee's responsibility under this chapter.
The failure of the employee's owner, manager or supervisor to take appropriate
steps required by this chapter in response to the employee's notice shall not
constitute a violation on the part of the employee.
      (6)   In the event all duties required under this section are satisfied
yet the person violating this chapter persists in his or her violation and/or
refuses to vacate the premises on which the violation occurred, the owner,
manager, supervisor and/or employee shall immediately contact one or more of
the agencies or departments authorized above to enforce this chapter informing
the agency or department of the circumstances of the violation.
      (7)   The mere presence of a person smoking within premises of an
establishment governed by this chapter does not constitute a violation on the
part of the establishment. The establishment and its agents shall only be
charged for a violation of this chapter if the responsible agent(s) of the
establishment fail to timely satisfy each responsibility prescribed for them in
this section.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an employee, or
any person aggrieved by a failure to comply with this chapter, whether by
commission or omission, including violations on the part of an owner, operator,
manager, employee or other person(s) in control of a public place or a place of
employment covered by this chapter may bring legal action to enforce this
chapter, either by civil action seeking injunctive relief or by criminal
complaint in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.12 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where
it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.13 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter shall be construed so as to further its stated purposes.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation, punishable by a fine
not exceeding $50.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a violation, punishable by:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation.
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $250 for a second violation within 1 year from
a previous offense date.
      (3)   A fine not exceeding $500 for the third and each additional
violation within 1 year from a previous offense date.
   (C)   In addition to the fines established by this section, violations of
this chapter by a person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a
public place or place of employment may serve as reasonable cause for the
suspension or revocation of any permit or license issued to the person for the
premises on which the violation occurred.
   (D)   Violation of this chapter is declared to be a public nuisance, which
may be abated by the City of Midway or its designated agents by restraining
order, preliminary and permanent injunction, or other means provided for by
law. The City of Midway may recover the reasonable costs of any court
enforcement action seeking abatement of this nuisance.
   (E)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation. Multiple violations witnessed in
a single observance shall also be considered separate and distinct violations.
(Ord. 2014-006, passed 8-18-2014)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
         
111.   FRANCHISES
         
112.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES AND ESTABLISHMENTS
         
113.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
         
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING
Section
Alcoholic Beverage Licenses
   
110.01   Regulations governing license to sell spiritous, vinous or malt
liquors
Occupations
   
110.15   Business after midnight
Business Licences; Miscellaneous Provisions
   
110.30   Records of purchases by junk dealers
   
110.31   Purchase of used beverage bottles
   
110.32   Uncrating or display of merchandise on street or sidewalk
   
110.33   Periodic reports
   
110.34   Settlements of insurance claims
Swimming Pools
   
110.45   Lifeguards required; permit
   
110.46   Permit qualifications; posting
   
110.47   Conformity to health and sanitation regulations
   
110.48   Inspections
 
   
110.99   Penalty
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSES
§ 110.01 REGULATIONS GOVERNING LICENSE TO SELL SPIRITOUS, VINOUS OR MALT
LIQUORS.
   (A)   Penalty for selling without license. Any person selling spirituous,
vinous or malt liquors within the city without first having obtained a license
therefor shall be fined as provided in §
110.99.
   (B)   License not transferable.  No license to sell spirituous, vinous or
malt liquors in the city shall be transferable so as to confer any right upon
any person other than the person named therein, nor to sell at any place other
than the place named therein; but the Council may grant such transfers at its
discretion and upon terms as it may designate.
   (C)   Duration of license. All licenses issued by the city for the sale of
spirituous, vinous or malt liquors in the city, including Sunday sales, shall
expire on June 30 the next following the date of the issuance of the license.
(1997 Code, § 411.0) (Am. Ord. 2009-09, passed 6-15-2009) Penalty, see §
110.99
OCCUPATIONS
§ 110.15 BUSINESS AFTER MIDNIGHT.
   Except for restaurants and private clubs that are regulated by §
114.07 herein and businesses that are within the Interstate Service Business
(B-5) Zone limited to automobile service stations (filling stations), motels or
hotels, restaurant drive-ins, cafes and convenience stores, it shall be
unlawful for any place of public business to operate after the hour of midnight
(12:00 a.m.) on each or any day of the calendar year.
(1997 Code, § 430.1) (Am. Ord. 2009-10, passed 6-15-2009; Am. Ord. 2014-001,
passed 3-17- 2014) Penalty, see §
110.99
BUSINESS LICENSES; MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 110.30 RECORDS OF PURCHASES BY JUNK DEALERS.
   Any person, firm or corporation doing business as a junkyard dealer shall be
required to keep a daily record of all purchases made by them from any sources
other than an authorized, licensed business establishment dealing with the
aforesaid junkyard operator or junk dealer. The file shall consist of a
chronological order of purchases, showing the date of purchase, name of the
individual or individuals from whom purchased, the address of each and the item
purchased. The item shall be so described as to readily identify it from the
record. The above record or file shall be made available for inspection by the
owners or operators of junk establishments aforesaid to peace officers to
assist them in any investigation they may be engaged in, in trying to locate
lost or stolen property.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.31 PURCHASE OF USED BEVERAGE BOTTLES.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to purchase at retail
from any person or persons, used milk, beer or soft drink bottles. Nothing
herein shall be construed to prohibit any vendor from reclaiming or redeeming
bottles, which, at the time of the sale, he or she had issued redemption checks
identifying bottles sold.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32 UNCRATING OR DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to uncrate or
display any furniture or goods or merchandise along the sidewalks or public
ways of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to impede
pedestrian traffic along the sidewalks or public ways of the city by uncrating
or displaying furniture, goods or merchandise.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.33 PERIODIC REPORTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PAWNBROKER. Any person, firm or corporation whose occupation is or
includes the taking and receiving by way of pledge, pawn or exchange of any
goods, wares or any kind of merchandise as security for payment of money.
   (B)   (1)   Each pawnbroker operating in the city shall keep a record of all
purchases made by him or her wherein shall be stated, as to each item
purchased, the name and address of the seller, physical description, including
height, weight, color of hair and eyes of the seller.
      (2)   This record shall also contain a description of the item and price
paid therefor.
      (3)   The record shall be kept on forms furnished by the Police
Department and shall be filed with the Police Department monthly, not later
than 5 days following the last day of each calendar month.
§ 110.34 SETTLEMENTS OF INSURANCE CLAIMS.
   (A)   (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, every adjuster
investigating or settling any claim for loss or damage from fire, lightning or
explosions to insured property in the city shall report in writing to the Fire
Department of the city all settlements of the claims made during the previous
calendar month.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the insurer either to cause the adjuster to
make the report or to make the report itself.
   (B)   The report shall state the location of the property damaged or lost,
the date of the loss or damage, the owner, the amount or amounts paid, and the
person or persons to whom paid.
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 110.45 LIFEGUARDS REQUIRED; PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall operate a swimming pool or bathing place within the
city unless there is in attendance at the pools or places, at all hours during
which the pools or places are open, a lifeguard or lifeguards duly qualified
under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to employ any lifeguard unless the
lifeguard has obtained a permit in writing from the Director of Health.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.46 PERMIT QUALIFICATIONS; POSTING.
   (A)   Applicants for permits shall file with the Director of Health an
application in writing on blanks to be furnished by the Director of Health
giving such information as the Director may require. No person shall be
eligible for a permit unless he or she has a certificate duly executed showing
that he or she has, within the year last past, successfully passed the Senior
Red Cross Life Saving Test. Every permit shall be for a period of 1 year and
shall entitle the holder thereof to qualify as lifeguard at any swimming pool
or bathing place. The permit shall be of a design and bear such words and
figures as may be prescribed by the Director of Health.
   (B)   The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place visible to the
inspectors of the Health Department at the swimming pool or bathing place at
all times during which the lifeguard named in the permit is on duty.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.47 CONFORMITY TO HEALTH AND SANITATION REGULATIONS.
   All swimming pools or bathing places shall conform to all health and
sanitary regulations as prescribed by the State Board of Health, Department of
Health and the ordinances of the city government.
Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.48 INSPECTIONS.
   All swimming pools and bathing places shall be open for the purpose of
inspection, at all times, by the duly authorized employees and officers of the
Department of Health.
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   For violations for §
110.01, the penalty is $50 for each day or part of day the violation shall
continue.
(1997 Code, § 411.0)
   (C)   For violation of §
110.15, the fine upon conviction will be no less than $10 and nor more than
$100 for each offense. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(1997 Code, § 430.1)
CHAPTER 111: FRANCHISES
Section
Cable TV
   
111.01   Description of cable TV franchise
   
111.02   Duration of grant
   
111.03   Charge for service
   
111.04   Minimum franchise fee
   
111.05   Transfer of franchise
   
111.06   Force majeure
   
111.07   Advertisement for bids
   
111.08   Content of bids
   
111.09   Award of franchise
Telephone and Communications Franchise
   
111.30   Creation
   
111.31   Definitions
   
111.32   Rights and privileges
   
111.33   Permissions
   
111.34   Response to street alterations
   
111.35   Timeframe to alter apparatus
   
111.36   Wire and cable clearance
   
111.37   Indemnification of city
   
111.38   Access to equipment, papers
   
111.39   Duration of franchise
   
111.40   Assigns
   
111.41   Compensation to city
   
111.42   Compensation in lieu of tax
   
111.43   Sale of franchise and privilege
   
111.44   Offering of bids
   
111.45   Acceptance or rejection of bids
   
111.46   Sale before expiration of franchise
   
111.47   Violation by company
   
111.48   Effective date
CABLE TV
§ 111.01 DESCRIPTION OF CABLE TV FRANCHISE.
   The franchise to be granted by the city is a nonexclusive franchise to
engage in the business of operating and providing a cable television system
within the corporate limits of the city, and for that purpose to erect,
install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain and retain in the
city streets, easements, public places and rights-of-way, such poles, wires,
cables conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments and other equipment as may be necessary and appurtenant to the
cable television system. In the event of subsequent annexation by the city, the
franchise holder shall be obligated to furnish cable television service only to
those annexed areas with a minimum density of 25 residential dwelling units per
cable mile.
(1997 Code, § 451.1) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990)
§ 111.02 DURATION OF GRANT.
   The grant of franchise shall expire 15 years from the date upon which it is
made.
(1997 Code, § 451.2) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990)
§ 111.03 CHARGE FOR SERVICE.
   The recipient of the franchise may charge for its services such rates as may
be contained in the bid accepted by the city and may modify its rates at any
time after 12 months from the date of the grant, upon 30 days' prior written
notice to the city. The notice of change in the charge for services shall be
for informational purposes only and the city shall not exercise any regulatory
authority with respect to the rates charged by the holder of the franchise.
(1997 Code, § 451.3) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990)
§ 111.04 MINIMUM FRANCHISE FEE.
   The holder of the franchise shall pay to the city quarterly, within 60 days
after the end of each quarter of the calendar year during the term of this
franchise, a franchise fee equal to a minimum of 5% of the gross service
revenues received by the franchise holder during the preceding calendar year.
GROSS SERVICE REVENUES shall include basic subscription charges, charges for
any premium or pay-per-view channels, installation fees and any other revenue
derived from cable subscribers within the city. The holder of the franchise
shall provide with each annual payment a statement indicating the gross service
revenues received during the preceding year, certified to be accurate by an
appropriate corporate officer. Upon request specifying a reasonable time and
including reasonable advance notice, the holder of the franchise shall make
available its records and financial reports in order that the city may verify
the gross annual revenues.
(1997 Code, § 451.4) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990)
§ 111.05 TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   The franchise shall not be assignable without the prior written consent of
the city.
(1997 Code, § 451.5) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990)
§ 111.06 FORCE MAJEURE.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the holder of the
franchise shall not be liable for any breach, in the event the holder is
delayed in or prevented from performing any obligation required of it by this
subchapter, due to war, riot, act of public enemy, insurrection, strike,
lockout, labor, or material shortage, act of God, fire, flood, storm or other
casualty breakdown of or damage to plant, equipment or facilities, interruption
of transportation, orders or acts of civil or military authorities, or other
causes beyond or outside of its control.
(1997 Code, § 451.6) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990)
§ 111.07 ADVERTISEMENT FOR BIDS.
   Advertisement for bids under this subchapter shall be published in the
appropriate local newspaper on at least 3 consecutive weeks.
(1997 Code, § 451.7) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990)
§ 111.08 CONTENT OF BIDS.
   The bids shall specify the quality of service to be rendered, the
availability of a local access channel by which the city may notify residents
of local emergencies, disasters or concerns without charge, the percentage
franchise fee to be paid to the city, and the price to be charged for the
service. Each bid shall be accompanied by a deposit in the form of a certified
check equal to 5% of the fair estimated cost of the plant and equipment
required to render the service. The deposit shall be forfeited to the city in
case the bid is accepted and the bidder fails, for 30 days after the
confirmation of the sale, to give sufficient bond in a sum equal to 1/4 of the
fair estimated cost of the plant to be erected. The requirement of a deposit
and bond shall not apply to a person already owning a plant and equipment
sufficient to render the service required under the franchise.
(1997 Code, § 451.8) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990)
§ 111.09 AWARD OF FRANCHISE.
   The city may award a nonexclusive franchise to the highest and best bidder
or bidders following each advertisement for bids. The city may also reject all
bids. The city shall call for bids from time to time upon executive order of
the Mayor or upon a majority vote of the City Council.
(1997 Code, § 451.9) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990)
TELEPHONE AND COMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE
§ 111.30 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a franchise to construct, erect, operate and
maintain upon, through, along, under and over the streets, alleys, avenues,
public roads, highways, bridges, viaducts, sidewalks and other public ways of
the city a telephone and communications system embracing underground conduits,
manholes, telephone poles, cables, boxes, wires, fixtures, electrical
conductors and other apparatus, equipment and facilities necessarily and
essentially used or useful to and in the operation of a telephone and
communications system, subject to all of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The city declares as a legislative finding that the rights-of-way
within the city:
      (1)   Are a unique and physically limited resource;
      (2)   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the city;
      (3)   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
      (4)   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and public
service entities, to the enhancement of the health, welfare and general
economic well-being of the city and its citizens; and
      (5)   Require adoption of the specific additional regulations established
by this subchapter to ensure coordination of users, maximize available space,
reduce maintenance and costs to the public, and facilitate entry of a maximum
number of providers of communications and other services in the public
interest.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Midway, Kentucky.
   COMPANY. The person, firm or corporation which shall become the purchaser of
the franchise, or any successor or assignee of that person.
   EQUIPMENT AND APPARATUS. The underground conduits, manholes, telephone
poles, cables, boxes, wires, fixtures, electrical conductors, and any other
apparatus, equipment and facilities necessary to and essentially useful in the
operation of the telephone and communications system.
   STREETS. The public streets, alleys, avenues, public roads, highways,
bridges, viaducts, sidewalks and other public ways (as the same now exist and
including all which may be established or created) within the territorial
limits of the city.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.32 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   The company acquiring this franchise shall have the right and privilege of
constructing, erecting, operating and maintaining a telephone and
communications system, equipment and apparatus, upon, through, along, under and
over the streets within the corporate boundaries of the city as they now exist
or may hereafter be extended, subject to the provisions hereof and to all
powers (including police power) inherent in, conferred upon or reserved to the
city.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.33 PERMISSIONS.
   (A)   No pavements, sidewalks, curbs, gutters or other street installations
shall be disturbed, and no excavation in any of the streets will be made,
except with the written permission of the city through its designated employee,
official or agent.
   (B)   At least 15 days prior to performing any construction or installation
work in the public streets and rights-of-way, the company shall apply to the
city for a permit and shall include descriptive information, which may be
subject to proprietary treatment, about the specific location of any applicable
lines, facilities or equipment, and the company shall coordinate any
construction work with the city.
   (C)   When an emergency arises which requires immediate repair, the company
may disturb or excavate a street without first obtaining written permission
from the city, provided that the city is notified in writing of the repair
within 5 days. This notification shall include at least the time, date,
location and extent of excavation or other work performed.
   (D)   When the company shall enter upon any street for the purpose of
constructing, erecting, operating, maintaining and/or removing equipment and
apparatus, it shall prosecute the work, at its own cost and expense, with due
diligence and shall dig and close up all trenches and exposed places as rapidly
as possible and shall leave the streets in reasonably the same condition as
prior to its entry. All the repairs shall be maintained by the company for 1
year in as good condition as the remainder of the street. In the event that the
company fails, refuses or neglects to comply with the above provisions, the
city shall have the right, after notice in writing having first been given to
the company or any officer or agent representing it, to do the work or make the
repairs, and the cost and expense thereof shall be paid to the city by the
company within 30 days from the date on which an itemized bill is presented to
the company.
   (E)   In the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or removal of any of
the equipment and apparatus, the company shall have due regard for the rights
of the city and others, and shall avoid interference with and injury to the
property of the city or others. The purchaser shall comply with all the laws of
the Commonwealth of Kentucky and ordinances of the city as to placing lights,
danger signals or warning signs. Such work by the company shall be done in a
workmanlike manner and so as not to unnecessarily interfere with public use of
any of the streets. The company's work in the public rights-of-way shall be
accomplished with a minimum of disruption and interference to the free flow of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.34 RESPONSE TO STREET ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the city or any of its departments, agencies and/or agents,
servants or employees shall grade, regrade, construct, reconstruct, widen or
alter any street or shall construct, reconstruct, repair, maintain or alter any
other municipal public works therein (including but not limited to storm
sewers, sanitary sewers and street lights), it shall be the duty of the
company, when so ordered by the city pursuant to a valid municipal purpose, to
change its equipment and apparatus within 90 days in the street at its own
expense so as to conform to the established grade or line of the street, so as
not to interfere with the municipal public works so constructed, reconstructed
or altered, except that the 90-day period shall be extended to 180 days for
good cause shown with respect to the magnitude of the requested project.
   (B)   The company shall be given access to the street plans and
specifications, and any proposed modifications thereto, in the possession of
the city.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.35 TIMEFRAME TO ALTER APPARATUS.
   Upon 90 days' notice from the city that any street is planned to be
constructed, reconstructed, widened, altered, paved or repaved, the company
shall make the extensions or changes in its equipment and apparatus, ahead of
any paving. However, upon a showing of good cause with respect to the magnitude
of the requested project, the company shall be granted 180 days in which to
comply. Further, upon the mutual agreement of both parties, the company may
require less than a 90-day compliance period for smaller projects.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.36 WIRE AND CABLE CLEARANCE.
   (A)   The minimum clearance of wires and cables placed above the streets of
the city, and also the placement of underground facilities, shall be done in
accordance with federal, state and local law and shall conform to the standards
of the latest edition of the National Electric Safety Code, National Bureau of
Standards, U.S. Department of Commerce. The city reserves the right to require,
by ordinance and upon reasonable notice to the company, observation of greater
standards of safety than those contained in that code.
   (B)   In the event that the company leases space on the poles or in the
conduits of an electric or other utility, the company shall abide by the
construction and other requirements of that utility, and the granting of a
communications franchise by the city shall not be construed or interpreted in
any way to alleviate the company's responsibilities and obligations to the pole
or conduit owner.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.37 INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY.
   The company agrees by the acceptance of this franchise to indemnify, keep
and save the city free and harmless from liability on account of injuries or
damage to persons or property growing out of the construction, maintenance,
repair and operation of its equipment and apparatus located upon, through,
along, under or over the city's streets. If any suit to enforce this liability
shall be brought against the city, either independently or jointly with the
company, upon notice by the city the company shall defend the city at the cost
of the company and, in the event of final judgment being obtained against the
city either independently or jointly with the company, the company shall pay
the judgment with all costs and hold the city harmless therefrom.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.38 ACCESS TO EQUIPMENT, PAPERS.
   The city, or any assistants as it may employ or designate, may have access
during normal business hours to the equipment and apparatus installed under
this franchise for the sole purpose of inspecting or examining it consistent
with the administration of this franchise, and may inspect, examine or verify
the papers of the company as necessary for the limited purpose of administering
this franchise.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.39 DURATION OF FRANCHISE.
   The franchise hereby created shall be for a set term of 10 years from and
after the date the same shall become effective but is not exclusive, and the
city reserves the right to sell similar franchises to others.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.40 ASSIGNS.
   The company is hereby given the right to assign the franchise created by
this subchapter to any person, firm or corporation able, ready and willing to
carry out the terms of this franchise, but prior to that assignment shall
obtain consent from the city to the assignment, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.41 COMPENSATION TO CITY.
   As consideration for the rights conferred by the granting of this franchise,
and to compensate the city for its superintendence of the franchise, the
successful bidder shall pay to the city a percentage, not to exceed 3%, of the
gross revenues received by the company during the term of the franchise from
the provision of local exchange access service to customers residing within the
territorial limits of the city, subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   The percentage of revenues shall be initially fixed by separate
resolution which shall state the city's acceptance of the company's bid.
Changes in the percentage, within the maximum percentage stated herein, shall
be made by resolution with special notice thereof provided, at least 60 days in
advance, to the company;
   (B)   The company shall remit to the city monthly all amounts due under this
franchise. The first remittance shall be based upon revenues received by the
company during the first month following the effective date of the franchise as
set forth in §
111.48 hereof, and shall be paid within 60 days following that period.
Thereafter, payments shall be made within 30 days after each subsequent period.
The final payment shall be paid within 30 days following expiration of this
franchise;
   (C)   LOCAL EXCHANGE ACCESS SERVICE is defined for these purposes as that
portion of telephone service provided to end-user customers which permits a
subscriber to access the normal serving local dial exchange, and is further
identified as the basic telephone service provided to residence and business
customers through single-line, party-line, key or PBX trunk arrangements; and
   (D)   As further consideration for the granting of this franchise, the
company shall permit the city to utilize, at tariffed rates, terms and
conditions, company pole space and conduit duct raceway space when the space is
vacant or available at the time of the request for space by the city, and the
city shall similarly permit the company to utilize, at reciprocal rates, terms
and conditions, city pole space and conduit.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.42 COMPENSATION IN LIEU OF TAX.
   (A)   The consideration set forth in the preceding section shall be paid and
received in lieu of any tax, license, charge, fee, street or alley rental, or
any other character of charge for the use and occupancy of the streets. It
shall further be in lieu of any pole tax, inspection fee tax, easement tax,
franchise tax (whether levied as an ad valorem, special or other character of
tax), and any other tax, license, fee or imposition other than the usual
general or special ad valorem property taxes now or hereafter levied. This
section shall not be construed to exclude any funds that flow to municipalities
as a result of state property tax or pole rentals provided under a separate
agreement.
   (B)   Should the city not have the legal power to declare that the payment
of the foregoing consideration shall be in lieu of the taxes, licenses, fees
and impositions, then the city declares that, should any such tax, license, fee
or other imposition be imposed upon the company, then to the extent necessary,
the consideration to be paid hereunder shall be applied toward the satisfaction
of those obligations.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.43 SALE OF FRANCHISE AND PRIVILEGE.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor, or a subordinate designated by the Mayor,
as soon as practicable after the passage of this subchapter, to offer for sale
this franchise and privilege. The franchise and privilege shall be sold at a
time and place fixed by the Mayor after due notice thereof has been given by
advertisement in at least 1 issue of a newspaper of general circulation within
the territorial limits of the city. The advertisement shall appear not less
than 7 days nor more than 21 days before the date bids are to be received.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.44 OFFERING OF BIDS.
   (A)   Bids and proposals for the purchase and acquisition of the franchise
and privileges hereby created shall be in writing and shall be delivered to the
Mayor or his or her designated subordinate upon the date and at the time fixed
in the advertisement for the receipt of such.
   (B)   Bids offered for purchase of this franchise shall state the bidder's
acceptance of the conditions set forth in this subchapter and shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee in the amount of $600 payable to
the City Council to defray the city's costs of advertising and other
administrative expenses incurred.
   (C)   If any bid shall include an offer of payment over and above the
requirement contained in §
111.41, then a certified check for that amount, payable to the city, shall be
remitted with the bid. This amount shall be considered as additional
consideration for the grant of this franchise.
   (D)   Each bid shall be accompanied by cash or a certified check drawn upon
a bank of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, or a national bank, equal to 5% of the
fair estimated cost of the equipment and apparatus to be placed under the
franchise created by this subchapter, which check or cash shall be forfeited to
the city in case the bid should be accepted and the bidder should fail, for 30
days after confirmation of the sale, to pay any consideration then due and to
give a good and sufficient bond in the sum equal to 1/4 of the fair estimated
cost of the equipment and apparatus to be erected; conditioned that it shall be
enforceable in case the purchaser should fail, within 9 months, to install the
equipment and apparatus contemplated to be provided pursuant to the franchise
created by this subchapter; but the deposit and bond need not be made by a
corporation or person already owning within the territorial limits of the city
the equipment and apparatus contemplated by the franchise created by this
subchapter.
   (E)   Any cash or check remitted by an unsuccessful bidder shall be
returned.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.45 ACCEPTANCE OR REJECTION OF BIDS.
   The Mayor shall report and submit to the Council all bids and proposals for
acceptance of bids. Acceptance of a bid shall be expressed by resolution. The
Council reserves the right, for and in behalf of the city, to reject any and
all bids for the franchise and privilege. In case the bids reported by the
Mayor shall be rejected by the Council, it may direct, by resolution, that the
franchise and privilege be again offered for sale, from time to time, until a
satisfactory bid therefor shall be received and accepted.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.46 SALE BEFORE EXPIRATION OF FRANCHISE.
   Any granting of the franchise created hereby shall include the obligation of
the city to provide, at least 18 months before its expiration, for the sale of
a new franchise to the highest and best bidder on terms that are fair and
reasonable to the city, to the existing holder of the franchise, and to its
patrons.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.47 VIOLATION BY COMPANY.
   Any violation by the company, its vendee, lessee or successor of the
provisions of this franchise or any material portions thereof, or the failure
promptly to perform any of the provisions thereof, shall be cause for the
forfeiture of this franchise and all rights hereunder after written notice to
the company and continuation of the violation, failure or default.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
§ 111.48 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The franchise created by this subchapter shall become effective upon
acceptance of the company's bid, as expressed in the ordinance of acceptance,
which additionally fixes the initial revenue percentages to be paid pursuant to
the maximum limit set forth herein.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 6-20-2005)
CHAPTER 112: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITIES AND ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Applicability
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Restrictions, requirements and conditions
   
112.04   Licensing
   
112.05   Permitted use in B-4 Highway Business Zone
§ 112.01 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter is to be used in conjunction with the Amended Versailles-
Midway-Woodford County Zoning Ordinance, specifically but without limitation
Article II § 201,A (Definitions) and Article VII, § 716.2 (Principal Uses).
(Ord. 04-05, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. ADULT
ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS shall be included, by definition, with the
following:
   DIRECTOR. The Midway City Clerk/Treasurer or his or her designee.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person hired by or suffered or permitted to work in an
establishment engaging in sexually explicit entertainment activities, whether
that person received remuneration or compensation directly from the operator or
owner of the establishment, from patrons of the establishment, or from any
other source, whether by contract of employment or otherwise.
   ESTABLISHMENT. A business entity or endeavor, fixed, mobile or traveling,
including its owners, operators, directors, shareholders, partners, employees
and possessions.
   LICENSEE. A person who is the holder of a valid license under this chapter,
also including an agent, servant or employee of, or other person acting on
behalf of a licensee, whenever a licensee is prohibited from doing a certain
act under this chapter.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, partnership, corporation or business entity with
all such individuals, partners, shareholders, officers and directors over the
age of 18, who established or maintain a business as its owner or manager and
shall also mean licensee as defined in this chapter.
   OWNER. Any individual, partnership, corporation or business entity who has
legal title to real estate, with or without accompanying actual possession
thereof, or has all or part of the beneficial ownership of any real estate and
a right to present use and enjoyment thereof, including a mortgage in
possession.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation or business entity.
   PRINCIPAL USE. A substantial or significant use. Any of the following
criteria shall constitute evidence that an establishment is engaging in
sexually explicit entertainment activity as PRINCIPAL USE:
      (1)   Contains more than 15% of its stock in trade in material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis in sexual activity;
      (2)   Devotes more than 15% of its floor space which is open to either
the public generally or to members of the public other than minors for the
display of material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on sexual
activities;
      (3)   Has more than a total of 200 square feet provided for the display,
storage, or sale of material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
sexual activities; or
      (4)   Advertises in a manner visible from the outside of the business
premises the availability of material or entertainment distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on sexual activities.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Depiction of human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation, acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy, holding
or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or breasts.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT ENTERTAINMENT ACTIVITY OR ACTIVITIES or SEXUALLY EXPLICIT
ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Shall mean 1 or more of the following activities:
      (1)   CABARET. An establishment which features, as a principal use of its
business, entertainers, waiters, bartenders, male or female impersonators or
persons, either male or female, who expose to public view of the patrons of the
establishment at any time the bare female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola, human genitals, pubic region or buttocks, even if
partially or completely covered by translucent material, or human or simulated
male genitals in a discernible turgid state.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL SEXUAL ENTERTAINMENT CENTER.  Any commercial
establishment not otherwise described in this section which makes available
material, services or entertainment appealing to sexual interests, including
but not limited to a bath house, swingers' club or similar  establishment, if
the establishment or its entertainment, services or goods are advertised by or
on behalf of the establishment in a manner patently designed to appeal to such
adult sexual interests.
      (3)   MASSAGE PARLOR.  An establishment for treating the human body by
rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping or similar treatment with the hand which
promotes its services in a manner designed to appeal to the patron's sexual
interest.
      (4)   SELF-DESIGNED SEXUALLY EXPLICIT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. Any
establishment which designates all or a portion of its premises as for adults
only, or has a policy of excluding minors from its premises or from a portion
of its premises and which makes available services, entertainment, or goods at
the premises or at the portion of the premises designated for adults only which
are characterized or distinguished by depictions of sexual activities as
defined in this chapter.
      (5)   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT AMUSEMENT ARCADE. An establishment having as 1 of
its principal uses 1 or more of the following: customer-operated motion picture
devices, peep shows, viewing areas or similar devices, either coin-, token- or
slug-operated, or which, in consideration of an entrance fee, display material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depictions of sexual
activities, as defined in this section, or which offer male or female persons
who expose to view of the customer the bare female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola, human genitals, pubic region or
buttocks, even if partially or completely covered by translucent material, or
human or simulated male genitals in a discernible turgid state event if
completely or opaquely covered.
      (6)   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT BOOKSTORE.  An establishment having as 1 of its
principal uses the sale, rent or display of pictures, books, periodicals,
magazines, appliances and similar material which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on depictions of sexual activities as
hereinafter defined, or an establishment with a substantial segment or section
devoted to the sale, rental or display of such material.
      (7)   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT ENTERTAINMENT PROVIDER. A commercial
establishment, such as a hotel or motel, which in addition to providing as the
major part of its business services unrelated to depictions of sexual
activities as herein defined, makes entertainment, either live or on film or
video tape, available to its customers, which entertainment has as a dominant
theme or is characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to sexual activities, if the establishment advertises
the availability of this sexually explicit entertainment. The advertisement of
these materials shall not include the position of a card or hand bill on or
near a television set in a hotel or motel room advising room guests that such
sexually explicit movies are available upon request of the guest, or
advertising informing the public of the availability.
      (8)   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT ESCORT OR ESCORT SERVICE. A person or business
which is held out to the public to be available for hire and which for monetary
consideration agrees to consort with or accompany another or others to or about
social affairs, entertainments or places of amusement or within any place of
public resort or within any private quarters, and advertises, communicates or
offers that sexually explicit entertainment activity will be provided.
      (9)   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An establishment having
or advertising as having as 1 of its principal uses the presentation of motion
picture, slide projections or other similar material having as a dominant theme
or characterized or distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to sexual activities, as defined in this chapter, for
observation by persons therein.
      (10)   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT STAGE-SHOW THEATER. An establishment having as 1
of its principal uses the presentation of live performances of humans or
animals having as a dominant theme or characterized or distinguished by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to sexual activities, as
defined in this chapter, for observation by persons therein.
      (11)   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT VIDEO CASSETTE/DVD CENTER. A commercial
establishment which has as 1 of its principal uses the rental or retail sale of
video cassettes and/or DVDs which depict material distinguished or
characterized by and emphasis on or depictions of sexual activities as defined
in this chapter and which does not provide an on-premises showing of such
materials.
      (12)   TAXI DANCE HALL. An establishment operated as a public dance hall
where dance partners, either male or female, are available for hire for
monetary consideration payable either by the dance or as part of an entrance
fee or membership fee.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 112.03 RESTRICTIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   An establishment engaging in a sexually explicit entertainment
activity, except as otherwise provided by laws which may be more restrictive,
may not have more than 1 outside, flush to the wall, facial style sign, not to
exceed in size 10 feet in length (horizontal to the ground) and 3 feet in width
(vertical to the ground) with no flashing lights and with no lettering, wording
or pictorial or representational matter which is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on the human anatomy, in a clothed or unclothed state, and/or
depictions of sexual activities as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   An establishment engaging in a sexually explicit entertainment may not
display its stock in trade or matter depicting, describing or relating to
sexual activities in such manner as to be subject to public view from outside
the establishment, including but not limited to view from public sidewalks,
streets, arcades, hallways or passways.
   (C)   An operator of an establishment engaging in a sexually explicit
entertainment activity or sexually explicit escort service or his or her
employee shall not permit a person under 18 years of age to be employed by or
to enter his or her establishment or to be a patron of the service; provided,
however, that a licensed sexually explicit entertainment establishment which
devotes only a portion of its business premises to sexually explicit
entertainment or material may permit the public, generally including minors, to
enter the portions of the premises within which no sexually explicit
entertainment or material is visible or on display. This provision shall not be
construed to be an exemption from or in conflict with any requirement found in
any statute, ordinance, regulation or other provision of law applicable to a
licensee or potential licensee hereunder which is more stringent in terms of an
age requirement for employees.
   (D)   An operator engaging in a sexually explicit entertainment activity
shall, at all times, cause the entrance of his or her establishment to be so
attended as to ensure compliance with the requirements contained in this
chapter.
   (E)   An establishment licensed to engage in sexually explicit entertainment
shall not provide the entertainment between the hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight)
and 6:00 a.m.
   (F)   A sexually explicit amusement arcade, except as otherwise provided by
laws which may be more restrictive, shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Any wall or partition which is situated so as to create a viewing
area in which any amusement device or viewing screen is located shall be
constructed of not less than 1 hour fire-restrictive material and shall contain
no hole or other perforation;
      (2)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually explicit
amusement arcade which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of less than
150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, DVD or other
reproduction which depicts sexual activities as defined in this chapter, shall
comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there shall be an unobstructed, direct line-of-sight view from a
manager's or cashier's station of every area of the premises to which any
patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms. Restrooms may
not contain video reproduction equipment.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators, and it shall
also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure
that the view area specified in this chapter above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times.
         (c)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than 1 person at a time.
      (3)   There shall be no fewer than 2 doorways, each of a width not less
than 36 inches, which provide ingress or egress from any room in which an
amusement device or viewing area is located; provided, however, that 1 doorway
shall be sufficient in the event the Building Inspector or his or her designee
should so determine. The doorway or doorways shall be unlocked during business
hours;
      (4)   Over every doorway which provides egress from any room in which an
amusement device or viewing area is located, there shall be maintained an
internally illuminated exit sign with letters at least 5 inches in height;
      (5)   A light level of no less than 10 foot-candles at floor level shall
be maintained in every portion of the establishment to which the public is
admitted; and
      (6)   All persons regulated pursuant to this section must comply with the
terms and conditions of this chapter within 60 days after the effective date of
this chapter.
   (G)   The public entrance to a sexually explicit entertainment establishment
shall not be located nearer than 1,000 feet from any church, synagogue or other
permanent place of worship, licensed daycare center, public or private
elementary, middle or secondary school, institution of higher learning or
business college, or any park, mall, shopping centers, mall or park-like area
of open space under the control of a governmental agency. The distance shall be
measured along a straight line from the nearest property line of the real
estate on which that building or public park-like area is located to the
entrance to the establishment engaging in a sexually explicit entertainment
activity.
   (H)   The public entrance to a sexually explicit entertainment establishment
shall not be located nearer than 1,000 feet from any area zoned residential.
This distance shall be measured along a straight line from the boundary line of
the nearest area zoned for residential purposes to the entrance to the
establishment engaging in a sexually explicit entertainment activity.
   (I)   The public entrance to a sexually explicit entertainment establishment
shall not be located nearer than 750 feet from the public entrance of another
sexually explicit entertainment activity establishment. This distance shall be
measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance to a building containing
an existing sexually explicit entertainment establishment to the entrance or
proposed entrance to the building containing the proposed new sexually explicit
establishment.
   (J)   Notwithstanding the provisions of the immediately preceding sections
above to the contrary, any person who has been issued a sexually explicit
entertainment license which is in effect as of the effective date of this
chapter, and any person who is lawfully engaged in a sexually explicit
entertainment activity defined under this chapter, who obtains a license
therefor within the time required by this chapter may continue to engage in the
sexually explicit entertainment activity in which the person lawfully engages
as of the effective date of this chapter as a nonconforming use subject to the
limitations of KRS 100.253 and other restrictions on nonconforming uses as are
provided by law.
   (K)   No adult entertainer, dancer or escort shall be permitted to have any
physical contact with any other adult entertainer, dancer, escort, employee,
patron or spectator while that adult entertainer, escort or dancer is
performing.
   (L)   No alcoholic beverages or controlled substances shall be present,
stored or consumed on any premises licensed for adult entertainment.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 112.04 LICENSING.
   (A)   The owner or operator of an establishment intending to engage or
engaging, under a previously issued license, in a sexually explicit
entertainment activity, or the owner or operator of a sexually explicit escort
or escort service, shall make application for a license with the City Clerk/
Treasurer in accordance with this section. All applications must be accompanied
by a nonrefundable $1,000 investigation fee. A separate license is required for
each separate or assumed name under which an owner or operator conducts
business. The application shall be in writing under oath, and shall be in the
form prescribed by the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall contain the following
information together with any further information as the City Clerk/Treasurer
may require:
      (1)   The name and location of the establishment and the name and
business address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name, address, date of birth and social security number of a
natural person with an ownership interest in the licensee, the natural person
to be determined as follows:
         (a)   If the licensee is 1 or more natural persons, then all such
natural persons shall comply, or any 1 natural person may comply for the
licensee upon certification that he or she owns a greater share of the licensee
than any other person.
         (b)   If the licensee is a partnership, then the natural person
designated as the managing general partner in the partnership agreement, a copy
of which is to be attached to the license application, shall comply, but if the
partnership agreement designates no natural person as a managing general
person, then the natural person who, by virtue of his or her interest or
holding in the partnerships or corporations which have formed the partnership,
owns a greater share of the licensee than any other single natural person shall
comply.
         (c)   If the licensee is a corporation, the natural person, if any,
who owns a greater number of shares than any other person shall comply, but if
the person owning the greatest number of shares is not a natural person, then
the natural person who by virtue of his or her interests or holdings in 1 or
more partnerships or other corporations which own shares in the licensee owns a
greater portion of the shares in the licensee than any other individual natural
person shall comply.
      (3)   The name and address of all directors and officers of any licensee
or applicant which is a corporation, and the name and address of the licensee's
designated agent for service or process;
      (4)   In the event the applicant or licensee is not the owner of record
of the real property on which the licensed establishment is located or to be
located, the application shall include a notarized statement from the owner of
record of the real property acknowledging that a sexually explicit
entertainment establishment is to be located on the real property under the
issuance of the license. The applicant also shall furnish the name and address
of the record owner of the real property and a copy of the lease or rental
agreement;
      (5)   The name, address, date of birth and social security number of all
persons engaged in the day-to-day employment or contract labor on the licensed
premises. If this licensee is to engage in the sale, rental or showing of books
or movies distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting or
relating to sexual activities as defined in this chapter, then all persons
designated to engage in the selection of the books and movies to be offered for
sale or rental or to be shown on the licensed premises shall be subject to the
provisions of this division. All persons who at any time shall be responsible
for attending the entrance of the establishment for the purposes of ensuring
compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
provisions of this division;
      (6)   The name, address, date of birth and social security number of the
individual designated by the applicant to undertake to keep the applicant, if
licensed, at all times in compliance with the restrictions, requirements and
conditions of this chapter and with the rules and regulations promulgated by
the City Clerk/Treasurer together with the sworn affidavit of the individual
stating that he or she has received a copy of this chapter, and he or she
willfully undertakes on behalf of the applicant to comply therewith;
      (7)   The name, address, date of birth and social security number of the
individual designated by the applicant or licensee to be reasonable for keeping
the information required hereunder current at all times together with a sworn
affidavit of that individual stating that he or she has received a copy of this
chapter, that he or she understands the requirements hereof pertaining to
disclosure of information, and that he or she willfully undertakes on behalf of
the applicant to comply therewith;
      (8)   The name and addresses of any rental agent of the property on which
the establishment is located;
      (9)   The nature of the activity or activities to be engaged in at those
locations;
      (10)   All criminal convictions of any offense set forth in KRS Chapter
528 (gambling), KRS Chapter 529 (prostitution), KRS 506.030 (if the
solicitation pertains to an offense of solicitation of prostitution under KRS
529), KRS Chapter 510 (sexual offenses), KRS Chapter 531 (pornography) or any
similar law of the United States of America or sister states of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky within the last 5 years of the applicants, owners,
directors, partners, or employees whose names are required pursuant to
ordinance. Any such person who is on probation or parole for any of the
offenses set forth above shall submit to the City Clerk/Treasurer the terms of
the probation or parole;
      (11)   The name and address of any person to whom the applicant wants
mail notice to be given in case of violation or other matters affecting the
license hereunder;
      (12)   A photograph or drawing of any signs displayed or proposed to be
displayed on the exterior of the establishment and a statement of the
dimensions of the signs;
      (13)   Proof of compliance with the occupational license fee laws of the
city;
      (14)   A certificate of occupancy where required and, in all other cases,
a letter of compliance issued by the Code Administrator certifying that the
business is in compliance with applicable zoning laws or has nonconforming use
rights and that proposed use will not constitute an enlargement or expansion of
the scope of the nonconforming rights;
      (15)   A certificate from the Building Inspector or his or her designee
that all applicable building code regulations have been met, and in the case of
a sexually explicit amusement arcade, that all requirements have been met;
      (16)   A statement from the Building Inspector or his or her designee
that the premises comply with the applicable provisions of the Kentucky
Building Code, as adopted by the city;
      (17)   A statement from the Woodford County Health Department Director or
his or her designee that the premises are adequately ventilated and contain
public restrooms, which satisfy the requirements of state regulations,
currently embodied in 902 KAR 10:010. The County Health Department Director or
his or her designee shall cause the premises of each licensee to be inspected
at least annually to determine continued compliance with the provisions of this
section; and
      (18)   If the application is for a sexually explicit escort service, the
application must also include:
         (a)   The hours that the escort service will be open to the public,
including the hours any escorts are with a patron;
         (b)   The methods used to promote the health and safety of escorts and
to protect them from assault, battery and rape;
         (c)   The methods of supervising the escorts to prevent the escort
from charging the patron any fee in addition to the fee paid to the escort
service by the patron;
         (d)   The methods of supervising the escorts to prevent the escort
from soliciting acts of prostitution or offering to provide sexual stimulation
or sexual gratification; and
         (e)   The method of compensating the escorts.
   (B)   The information required by this chapter above shall be at all times
current even after the granting of a license by the City Clerk/Treasurer. It
shall be the responsibility of the operator or other person designated in the
license application to notify the City Clerk/Treasurer no later than the close
of the first business day after the effective date of any changes, alterations
or modifications in any information contained in the application, including but
not limited to: name of the establishment, any change in the corporate
information required for the application, names and addresses of employees,
names and addresses of the owners of the property on which the establishment is
located, name and address of the designated agent for service of process,
nature of the activity or activities to be engaged in at the establishment, and
the name and address of any person the applicant wants mail notice to be given
in case of violation or other matters affecting the license. In addition, each
sexually explicit escort service licensed pursuant to this chapter shall keep a
current list of all escorts providing service to it. This list must contain the
name, address and work permit card information for each escort and shall be
available upon request to the City Clerk/Treasurer, his or her designee and to
any law enforcement officer.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer will cause the premises to be inspected after
the application has been received and all application requirements are in
compliance. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall then issue a license forthwith if
all restrictions, regulations, conditions and all requirements of this chapter
and other applicable laws have been met, except that no license will be issued
if the applicant or any owner, operator, director, partner, shareholder or
employee has been convicted of any offense set forth in KRS Chapter 528
(gambling), KRS Chapter 529 (prostitution), KRS 506.030 (if the solicitation
pertains to an offense of solicitation of prostitution under KRS 529), KRS 510
(sexual offenses), KRS Chapter 531 (pornography), or any similar law of the
United States of America or sister states of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
within the last 5 years. Provided, however, the granting of a license does not
certify compliance with all applicable laws nor does it stop the county from
enforcement of all applicable laws or ordinances. If inspection reveals failure
to comply with any restrictions, requirements or conditions herein, the City
Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the applicant in writing of that fact, stating
what failures have been discovered, allowing a reasonable time to correct the
defects and informing the applicant of the appeal procedure if the applicant
does not agree with the City Clerk/Treasurer's decision.
   (D)   Any license granted pursuant to this section shall at all times be
conspicuously posted and displayed in a public area so as to be open to view of
the patrons and proper public authorities.
   (E)   Application for or granting of a license according to this section is
deemed to permit periodic inspections of any establishment required to have a
license under this chapter by the City Clerk/Treasurer or his or her designee
or any law enforcement officer, for the purpose of verifying compliance with
the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (F)   Thirty days after the effective date of this chapter, no operator
shall maintain, operate or conduct an establishment engaging in sexually
explicit entertainment activities defined under this chapter, and thereafter no
operator shall own, operate or be employed at an establishment engaging in
sexually explicit entertainment activities which has sought and been denied a
license according to this section, and unless all dancers, performers and
entertainers appearing at the establishment and escorts have obtained the work
permit card required by this chapter, as provided below.
   (G)   No owner shall permit sexually explicit entertainment activities to be
conducted on his or her property unless and until it is properly licensed
according to this section, except as permitted under this chapter.
   (H)   No person shall permit himself or herself to be an operator or an
employee at a sexually explicit entertainment activity or sexually explicit
escort or escort service which has not been validly licensed according to this
section, except as permitted under this chapter.
   (I)   All licenses shall be for the fiscal year, July 1 to June 30, or the
remaining portion of the fiscal year. The annual license fee, other than for
sexually explicit escort services, shall be $2,520 and shall be prorated at the
rate of $210 per month. The annual license fee for sexually explicit escort
services shall be $5,040 and shall be prorated at the rate of $420 per month.
All license fees shall be paid to the City Clerk/Treasurer. Application for
renewal of a license shall be made on or before June 30 of each year and
accompanied by the annual fee along with any occupational license fee required
by this chapter or county law. The application shall also contain any changes
in the information required by this chapter, which have occurred since the
previous application.
   (J)   Any person intending to be employed or to work in any capacity at a
sexually explicit entertainment establishment or sexually explicit escort
service shall prior to engaging in same make application for a work permit card
with the City Clerk/Treasurer in accordance with this section.
      (1)   (a)   The application shall be in writing, under oath, and shall be
in the form prescribed by the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall include:
            1.   The legal name of the applicant;
            2.   Any and all names used by the applicant in the course of
performance of the applicant's duties as a dancer, performer or entertainer;
            3.   The applicant's residence address;
            4.   The applicant's date of birth;
            5.   The applicant's social security number;
            6.   A recent photograph of the applicant; and
            7.   The applicant's fingerprints.
         (b)   The applicant shall submit with his or her application a 1-time
nonrefundable fee of $100.
      (2)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall grant the applicant the work permit
card promptly after receiving a report from the Woodford County Sheriff or the
Versailles Chief of Police that the applicant has not been convicted in the
past 5 years of an offense set forth in KRS Chapter 529 (prostitution),
pandering, or under KRS Chapter 510 (sexual offenses), or of trafficking in a
controlled substance, or any similar law of the United States of America or
sister states of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
      (3)   The work permit card so granted shall remain valid unless the City
Clerk/Treasurer is informed that the applicant has been convicted in the past 5
years of an offense set forth in KRS Chapter 529 (prostitution), or an offense
set forth in KRS Chapter 510 (sexual offenses), or pandering or of trafficking
in a controlled substance, or any similar law of the United States of America
or sister states of the Commonwealth of Kentucky. A work permit card shall be
replaced if lost or stolen for a fee of $50.
      (4)   After the effective date of this chapter, no dancer, performer or
entertainer shall dance, perform or otherwise be occupied in the providing of
entertainment at a sexually explicit entertainment establishment or sexually
explicit escort service without having obtained the work permit card required
by this chapter. The work permit card must be carried in the possession of the
person at all times the person is working or employed on behalf of the sexually
explicit entertainment establishment or sexually explicit escort service. A
separate work permit card is required in each name under which the person will
provide sexually explicit entertainment or sexually explicit escort services.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 7-19-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 PERMITTED USE IN B-4 HIGHWAY BUSINESS ZONE.
   Article VII, § 716.2 of the Woodford County Zoning Ordinance shall be hereby
simultaneously amended to allow adult entertainment establishments as a
permitted use in the B-4 Highway Business Zone. This shall include by
definition adult oriented businesses of sexually explicit entertainment
activities and establishments as more specifically defined in this chapter
hereinabove. These businesses shall not be permitted in other land use zones in
Woodford County other than the B-4 Highway Business Zone.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 7-19-2004)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The BUSINESS carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of the business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale or making sales or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (3)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an ITINERANT MERCHANT.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a PEDDLER.
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in the activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk/Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of the individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of the individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which the individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom goods are manufactured or grown, and
where the goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their applications the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
applications, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than 10 days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The application shall be approved unless the investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, or general welfare. In
particular, the following will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an
application with tangible evidence that the applicant:
   (A)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
   (B)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
   (C)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to itinerant
merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
   (D)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
   (E)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. The notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least 10 days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in a way as
to constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to the person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing and notice for the hearing shall be given to
the person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than 1 place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
"licensed peddler" or "licensed solicitor," the expiration date of the license
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during the time that he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
114.01   License required
   
114.02   Application procedure
   
114.03   Termination
   
114.04   License restrictions
   
114.05   Posting of license
   
114.06   Compliance with alcoholic beverage control laws mandatory
   
114.07   Hours of sale
   
114.08   Fine and/or revocation of license
   
114.09   Server training alcohol recognition (STAR) mandatory
   
114.10   Entertainment Destination Center
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see KRS 241 through 244
§ 114.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall manufacture, traffic in, sell, deal in,
or dispense liquor or alcoholic beverages for the purpose of evading the
alcohol beverage control statutes or ordinances, without first having applied
for and been issued a license as provided for by ordinance, and without
complying with all statutes, ordinances and regulations applicable thereto.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 2-6-2012) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Application for a license to sell, deal in, manufacture, traffic in, or
dispense liquor and alcoholic beverages by a person, firm or corporation shall
be made in writing to the City Clerk, properly subscribed and sworn to before a
notary public or other officer authorized to administer an oath, wherein shall
be stated the applicant's name, age, and address; the exact location, by street
number or otherwise, of the premises where liquor and alcoholic beverages are
to be sold; the name of the owner of the premises and, if the applicant be a
firm or corporation, the name of the president or other chief officer(s) of the
firm or corporation and the name and address of the person who is to manage or
conduct the sale of liquor and alcoholic beverages on behalf of the applicant.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 114.03 TERMINATION.
   Each license issued under this chapter shall terminate on June 30 following
the issuance thereof.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 114.04 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be granted to any natural person or persons who is
not a citizen of the United States and a bona fide resident of the Commonwealth
of Kentucky for at least 1 year prior to submission of an application for
license; nor to any person who has habitually been a petty law offender or who
has been convicted of a felony or until 5 years have passed from the date of
conviction, release from custody or incarceration, or termination of probation,
whichever is later; nor to any person under 21 years of age.
   (B)   A partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall not be licensed if:
      (1)   Each member of the partnership or each of the directors, principal
officers or managers does not qualify by meeting the above provisions as to
natural persons;
      (2)   It has had any license issued under this chapter or by statute
relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation of
alcoholic beverages revoked for cause or has been convicted of a violation of
any such statute or ordinance until the expiration of 2 years from the date of
revocation or conviction; or
      (3)   It is a partnership or corporation and any member of the
partnership or any director, manager or principal officer of the corporation
has had any license issued under this chapter or any statute relating to the
regulation of the manufacture, sale and transportation of alcoholic beverages
revoked for cause or has been convicted of a violation of any such ordinance or
statute until expiration of the later of 2 years from the date of revocation or
2 years from the date of conviction.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 2-6-2012) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   Every license and permit issued pursuant hereto shall at all times while in
force be posted and displayed in a conspicuous place in the room or principal
room where liquors and alcoholic beverages are kept for sale.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 2-6-2012) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 COMPLIANCE WITH ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL LAWS MANDATORY.
   No person, firm or corporation shall manufacture, traffic in, sell, deal in
or dispense liquor or alcoholic beverages in any quantity whatever, in
violation of and without complying with all of the provisions of this chapter
and all applicable state statutes and regulations. Each licensed premises shall
at all times be conducted in an orderly manner, and no disorderly, riotous or
indecent conduct, gambling or any violation of the law whatever shall be
allowed at any time on any licensed premises. The Alcoholic Beverage Laws of
Kentucky, including the terms defined therein, and the regulations of the State
Alcoholic Beverage Control Board, and as those laws and regulations may from
time to time be amended, are hereby adopted as part of the alcoholic beverage
control laws of this city.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 2-6-2012) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Retail sales of distilled spirits and wine by the package. A premises
for which there has been granted a license for the sale at retail of distilled
spirits, beer, malt beverages and wine by the package shall be permitted to
remain open during the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. prevailing time, Monday
through Saturday, including any time during which the polls are open for any
regular, primary, school, or special election, except as otherwise prohibited
by statute, and on Sundays shall not be permitted to remain open between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. prevailing time, and also from 10:00 p.m.
Sunday evening until 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday.
   (B)   Retail sales of distilled spirits and wine by the drink for
consumption on licensed premises. A premises for which there has been granted a
license for the retail sales of distilled spirits, beer or malt beverages and
wine by the drink for consumption on the licensed premises, shall not be
permitted to remain open for the purposes of selling such alcoholic beverages
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. prevailing time and 6:00 a.m. prevailing time,
Monday through Saturday, and on Sundays shall not be permitted to remain open
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. prevailing time, and also from
10:00 p.m. Sunday evening until 6:00 a.m. on the following Monday. Retail sales
of distilled spirits and wine by the drink for consumption on a licensed
premises shall be permitted at all other times, including times during which
the polls are open for any regular, primary, school or special election, except
as otherwise prohibited by statute.
   (C)   New Year’s Eve. A license to sell distilled spirits, wine or malt
beverages by the drink may sell and dispense alcoholic beverages on New Year's
Eve until 2:00 a.m. on January 1, provided that the appropriate licenses have
been obtained from both the city and state ABC boards.
(Am. Ord. 2009-12, passed 6-15-2009; Am. Ord. 2011-002, passed 6-6-2011; Am.
Ord. 2012-001, passed 2-6-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 6-10-2013) Penalty,
see §
114.99
§ 114.08 FINE AND/OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   A violation hereof of these ordinances or of any applicable state statute or
regulation by a duly authorized agent or employee of a licensee or permit
holder shall constitute and shall be deemed a violation by the licensee or
permit holder or employer, and whenever the holder of any license or permit
shall violate any portion hereof, or any regulation adopted pursuant thereto,
the licensee, permit holder and employer shall be subject to penalty under §
114.99, including the revocation and forfeiture of license or permit, and any
other sanctions or penalties permitted by law to be imposed.
(Am. Ord. 2009-11, passed 6-15-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-001, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 114.09 SERVER TRAINING ALCOHOL RECOGNITION (STAR) MANDATORY.
   For purposes of this section, SERVER shall mean any person employed or
working in any capacity, whether as an employee, voluntary helper, or working
proprietor, and any premises licensed to sell alcoholic beverages or where
alcoholic beverages are sold and dispensed by the drink or where malt beverages
are sold for consumption on the premises, and shall include any person whose
job duties include the sale, dispensing or service of alcoholic beverages or
management of the licensed premises.
   (A)   No person shall be employed by a licensed premises in the selling and
serving of alcoholic beverages as a server unless the server has successfully
participated in and completed the STAR Training Program through the State of
Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above,
shall complete the training within 60 days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. All persons completing the
training required of this section shall be re-certified in STAR training not
less than once every 3 years. Servers successfully completing the training
shall receive a server certificate from the server training program.
   (C)   No licensed premises in which alcoholic beverages are sold by the
drink or malt beverages that are sold for consumption on the premises shall
allow any server who has been employed over 60 days to sell, dispense or serve
any alcoholic beverages or malt beverage or to manage any licensed premises
unless the server is the holder of a current server certification. Each such
licensed premises shall maintain a file at the licensed premises for each
employee or server for whom training is required. The file shall contain the
name, job description, date of employment and proof of certification of each
server regulated by this section. This information shall be made available at
any reasonable time to any Alcoholic Beverage Control officer, administrator or
police officer.
   (D)   Any person working at a special event for which a temporary alcoholic
beverage license has been approved shall not be required to comply with this
section.
(Ord. 2012-001, passed 2-6-2012) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.10 ENTERTAINMENT DESTINATION CENTER.
   (A)   The City of Midway establishes an Entertainment Destination Center
(EDC) to aid growth and tourism within the city. The geographical boundaries of
the EDC in the city begin at the intersection of North Winter Street and East
Main Street proceeding down East Main Street to North Gratz Street then
proceeding north on North Gratz Street to and including all of the public
right-of-way adjacent to the perimeter of the Brown Barrel, continuing down
North Gratz Street to its intersection with Martin Street. A map of the EDC is
attached as Exhibit A to Ord. 2019-008 and is incorporated herein.
   (B)   (1)   The city shall apply for an EDC license.
      (2)   Businesses within the EDC that sell alcoholic beverages shall hold
the necessary alcoholic beverage license or licenses for its premises. A
licensee within or adjacent to the EDC may sell alcoholic beverages from one or
more permanent locations within any common area within the EDC if the licensee
holds a supplemental bar license for each non-permanent location and the
licensee holds written permission for the sales from the city.
      (3)   Written permission may be granted by the Mayor after a
determination that the requirements listed in 804 KAR 4:370 have been met. If
permission is denied by the Mayor for sale on a common area, the licensee may
file an appeal of the decision of the City Council who will conduct a hearing
following the appeal whether to uphold or overturn the decision of the Mayor.
      (4)   Patrons may leave the premises of businesses that sell alcoholic
beverages with alcoholic beverage drinks and consume those drinks in any EDC
common area or at other licensed premises within the EDC if permitted by the
business if the city possesses the common area, provides adequate security for
the common area, the public streets are controlled in a manner that ensures
public safety and pedestrian protection from vehicular traffic, has granted
written permission for the conduct, patrons are prohibited from taking
alcoholic beverages beyond the physical boundaries of the EDC described above,
and any drinks removed from the licensed premises within the EDC are contained
in a plastic cup with the logo or name of the alcohol vendor on it.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   For violation of any of the provisions hereof, the licensee shall be subject
to the penalty provisions and fines provided by KRS 242.990, KRS 243.990, KRS
244.990 and all other applicable statutes; and, if convicted, it shall be the
duty of the city to notify the City Council, whereupon the license theretofore
issued by the city to the licensee or permit holder shall be subject to
revocation and forfeiture upon notice to the licensee or permit holder.
(Am. Ord. 2009-13, passed 6-15-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-001, passed 2-6-2012)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
         
131.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Resisting arrest
   
130.02   Motor and other vehicles
   
130.03   False alarms
   
130.04   Passing over a fire hose
   
130.05   Building requirements
   
130.06   Curfew
   
130.07   Abandoned property
   
130.08   Auction sales on streets
Firearms, Weapons
   
130.20   Air rifles, pellet guns and arrows
   
130.21   Carrying concealed weapons in city buildings prohibited
   
130.22   Discharging firearms
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Burning trash and rubbish, see §
92.23
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 RESISTING ARREST.
   Any person who shall willfully resist, obstruct, interfere with or hinder
any police officer in the discharge of his or her official duty, or shall
attempt to do so, shall be subject to the provisions of §
130.99.
(1997 Code, § 1020.1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 MOTOR AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. The term MOTOR VEHICLE as used in this chapter shall
include automobiles, motorcycles and all other vehicles propelled otherwise
than by muscular power.
   (B)   Police power.  Between meetings of the City Council, the Chief of
Police shall have the power to control and regulate the flow of traffic in and
through the city by whatever means are reasonably necessary to ensure the
public safety; provided, however, all such acts shall be reported to the
Council at its next meeting and provided further that the Council ratify the
acts for the acts to persist as law.
   (C)   Speeding. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle
within the city at a speed in excess of that posted.
   (D)   Parking and loading. It shall be unlawful for any person to violate
any parking, loading or other similar regulatory signs that have been posted.
   (E)   Stop signs. It shall be unlawful for any person to pass through a stop
sign area without first bringing his or her motor vehicle to a complete stop.
   (F)   Inoperative vehicles.  It is unlawful for any person to keep and
maintain on or near the right of way of any street in the city a licensed but
inoperative motor vehicle.
(1997 Code, § 1020.2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 FALSE ALARMS.
   Any person who shall knowingly give or create a false alarm of fire shall be
fined according to the provisions of §
130.99.
(1997 Code, § 1020.3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 PASSING OVER A FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, travel or haul any vehicle of
any size or description over or upon any fire hose, regardless of whether the
hose is attached or connected to any fire engine.
(1997 Code, § 1020.4) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Additional restrictions, see §
71.051
§ 130.05 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   All building applications, including repairs to existing buildings, shall
comply with the Standards of Safety promulgated by the Department of Public
Safety.
(1997 Code, § 1020.5)
§ 130.06 CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to idly loiter or be upon the
streets of the city after the hour of 12:00 a.m. midnight.
(1997 Code, § 1020.8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to abandon other kinds of personal
property on or near his or her real property without adequately concealing the
property from the view of the public and without taking proper measures to
maintain the property in a safe and attractive condition.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, property will be presumed to be
abandoned when it is left in approximately the same locale without attention to
either maintenance and utility for a period of 10 days.
   (C)   At the expiration of the 10-day period, the apparent owner of the
property will be given notice of his or her violation of this section, and then
will be given a 3-day grace period to care for the property before a summons
will issue. When there is an issuance of summons, the apparent owner will
appear in court, and if he or she is found guilty, he or she shall be fined not
less than $5 and not more than $100. At the end of his or her 3-day period, the
property may be removed by the city at the expense of the owner, who shall be
subject to the further penalties of this chapter.
   (D)   Second violations of this section will be subject to the provisions of
§
130.99.
(1997 Code, § 1020.9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 AUCTION SALES ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell by public auction any loose
animal on the streets, alley or public highway within the city, or to expose
for sale thereon animals in droves, herds or flocks.
(1997 Code, § 1020.10) Penalty, see §
130.99
FIREARMS, WEAPONS
§ 130.20 AIR RIFLES, PELLET GUNS AND ARROWS.
   (A)   Sale or gift prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to sell or give away any air rifle or B.B. gun or similar gun
within the city limits of the city.
   (B)   Possession by minor without adult supervision prohibited. It shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to possess, use or discharge
any air rifle, pellet gun, arrow (excluding rubber tipped arrows) or other
dangerous projectile, unless the person is under the supervision of an adult.
(1997 Code, § 1020.6) (Ord. 97-04, passed 2-3-1997) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS IN CITY BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Carrying concealed weapons in city buildings prohibited. Except as
provided in KRS 527.020, the carrying of concealed weapons into and on the
grounds of all buildings owned, leased or controlled by the city is hereby
prohibited except for any building used for public housing by private persons,
highway rest areas, firing ranges, and private dwellings, owned, leased or
controlled by the city.
   (B)   City buildings to be posted.  All buildings or portions of buildings
where the carrying of concealed deadly weapons is prohibited shall be clearly
identified by signs posted at the entrance to the restricted area. The signs
shall be a minimum of 18 inches square and shall read as follows:
      "THE POSSESSION OF CONCEALED DEADLY WEAPONS, EVEN WITH PROPER PERMIT, IS
PROHIBITED IN THIS BUILDING."
   (C)   Additional penalty for city employees or elected officials. Any
employee of the city or any elected official of the city, excluding police
officers, who violates this section shall be subject to employee disciplinary
measures.
   (D)   Notice to public. The adoption of this section shall be deemed to
serve as public notice that the carrying of concealed deadly weapons shall be
prohibited in all city buildings, which shall also be posted accordingly.
   (E)   No violation of KRS 65.870.   The provisions of this section shall not
be deemed to be a violation of KRS 65.870.
(1997 Code, § 1020.11) (Ord. 96-07, passed 10-21-1996; Am. Ord. 2012-14, passed
11-19-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm within
the city limits, unless necessary or proper for the protection of person or
property.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit a law enforcement
officer from discharging a firearm in the performance of the officer’s duty.
(Ord. 2016-005, passed 7-17-2016) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of §
130.22 of this chapter is a misdemeanor and is subject to a fine of not less
than $100 and not more than $250 for each offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter for which
no penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. 2016-005, passed 7-17-2016)
CHAPTER 131: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Applicability
   
131.03   Definitions
   
131.04   Prohibited acts
   
131.05   Administering agency
   
131.06   Response authority
   
131.07   Liability for costs
   
131.08   Authorized release
   
131.09   Contractual indemnification; subrogation
   
131.10   Disclaimer of liability
§ 131.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted by the City Council for the purpose of
protecting public health/safety and the environment in the city through timely
response and remediation efforts by properly trained individuals for incidents
requiring action by existing/future local, state and/or federal requirements.
   (B)   This chapter also provides a mechanism for local agencies to recoup
response costs from persons responsible for the release.
(Ord. 2004-17, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 131.02 APPLICABILITY.
   Pursuant to authority of KRS 67.083(7), the provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all persons who manufacture, use, store or transport hazardous
materials within the city, when in the event of an unauthorized release of a
hazardous material:
   (A)   In which the safety of local residents and/or irreversible damage to
the environment is imminent without immediate action;
   (B)   The responsible party has refused to act in a reasonable time or the
responsible party is not known through existing reporting or record-keeping
requirements; and
   (C)   The responsible party would be required by existing local, state and/
or federal regulation(s) to report, contain and remediate the hazardous
material release (cause a release of a reportable quantity (RQ) of a hazardous
material).
(Ord. 2004-17, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 131.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED RELEASE. A release of hazardous materials in accordance with an
appropriate permit granted by a local, state or federal agency having primary
jurisdiction over the release.
   CONSUMER PRODUCT. The meaning stated in 15 U.S.C. § 2052.
   COSTS. Include all expenses incurred by local government and/or local
emergency response organizations, regardless of whether or not the agencies are
publicly or privately owned, in responding to any hazardous materials spill,
leak or other release into the environment and for any remedial or removal
actions taken to protect and safeguard the public health and safety, property
or the environment. The term includes but is not limited to costs incurred for
personnel, equipment and the use thereof, materials, supplies, services, damage
or loss of equipment, both organization and personal, and related expenses
resulting directly from response to a release or threatened release of a
hazardous material.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who works, with or without compensation, in a
workplace.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
government agency or other entity engaged in a business or providing services
which has employees.
   ENVIRONMENT. The navigable waters of the United States and any other surface
water, groundwater, drinking water supply, soil surface, subsurface strata,
storm sewer or publicly owned sanitary sewer or treatment works (other than
those handling only wastewater generated at a facility) within the City of
Midway or any other part of Woodford County, Kentucky. The term shall include
air only for purposes of reporting releases pursuant to the further provisions
of this chapter.
   FACILITY. Any building, structure, installation, equipment or pipe or
pipeline (including any pipe into a sewer or publicly owned treatment
container), tank, motor vehicle, truck trailer, rolling stock or aircraft; or
any site or area where a hazardous material has been deposited, stored,
disposed of, abandoned, placed or otherwise come to be located. Consumer
products in consumer use and vessels are not included.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any element, compound, substance or material or any
combination thereof which are toxic, flammable, explosive, corrosive,
radioactive, oxidizers, etiological agents, carcinogenic or are highly reactive
when mixed with other substances, including but not limited to any substance or
material which is designated a hazardous material pursuant to the "Hazardous
Materials  Transportation Act" (49 U.S.C.A., §§ 1801 et seq.) or is listed by
Appendix A, 40 C.F.R. Pt. 302, "List of Hazardous Materials and Reportable
Quantities," as amended, published by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA), and herein incorporated by reference the same as if set out at length
herein in words and figures, in a quantity and form which may pose a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or the
environment when improperly released, treated, stored, transported, disposed of
or otherwise managed.
   NORMAL APPLICATION OF PESTICIDES. Application pursuant to the label
directions for application of a pesticide product registered under § 30 or § 24
of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act as amended (7 U.S.C.
§§ 135 et seq.) (FIFRA); pursuant to the terms and conditions of an
experimental use permit issued under § 5 of FIFRA; or pursuant to an exemption
granted under § 18 of FIFRA.
   OIL.  OIL of any kind or in any form, including but not limited to
petroleum, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and oil mixed with wastes other than
dredged soil.
   PERSONS.  Any individual, business, firm, partnership, corporation,
consortium, association, trust, joint stock company, cooperative, joint
venture, city, county, city or county special district, the state or any
department, agency or political subdivision thereof, the United States
government, or any other commercial or legal entity.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping,
emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing of a hazardous
material into or on any land, air, water, stream, sewer or pipe so that the
hazardous materials or any constituent thereof may enter the environment. The
term shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   With respect to a claim which such persons may assert against the
employer of those persons as provided by CERCLA regulations, any release which
results in exposure to persons solely within a workplace;
      (2)   To emissions from the engine exhaust of a motor vehicle, rolling
stock, aircraft, vessel, or a pipeline station pumping engine; and
      (3)   To the normal application of fertilizers and pesticides.
   REMEDIAL ACTION. Any action consistent with permanent remedy taken instead
of or in addition to any removal actions in the event of a release or
threatened release of a hazardous material into the environment, to prevent or
minimize the release of hazardous materials so that they do not migrate to
cause a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or
the environment. The term includes but is not limited to such actions at the
location of the release as storage, confinement, perimeter protection using
dikes, trenches or ditches, clay (or other earth) cover, neutralization,
cleanup of released hazardous materials or contaminated materials, recycling or
reuse, diversion, destruction, segregation of reactive wastes, repair or
replacement of leaking containers, collection of leachate and runoff, on-site
treatment or incineration, provision of alternative water supplies, and any
monitoring reasonably required to assure that the actions protect public health
and welfare and the environment.
   REMOVAL. The cleanup or removal of released hazardous materials from the
environment. These actions may be necessary or appropriate to monitor, assess
and evaluate the release or threatened release of hazardous materials, the
disposal of removed material, or the taking of any actions as may be necessary
to prevent, minimize or mitigate damage to public health or welfare or the
environment. The term includes but is not limited to security fencing,
provision of alternative water supplies, and temporary evacuation, reception
and care of threatened persons.
   REPORTABLE QUANTITY. That quantity:
      (1)   Listed hazardous materials. The quantity appearing in column RQ for
each hazardous material listed in:
         (a)   "List of Hazardous Materials and Reportable Quantities," 40
C.F.R. Pt. 302, as amended;
         (b)    "Extremely Hazardous Substances," designated in 40 C.F.R. Pt.
355 under SARA Title III.
      (2)   Petroleum or petroleum products. The REPORTABLE QUANTITIES are 25
gallons or more of a petroleum product within a 24-hour period and 75 gallons
or more of diesel fuel in a 24-hour period or any amount that creates a visible
sheen on surface waters.
      (3)   Releases to sanitary sewer system. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, any release of a hazardous material to a sanitary
sewer system which is prohibited under applicable pretreatment or other
regulations of the City of Midway or other sewer system operating in Woodford
County shall be deemed to be released in REPORTABLE QUANTITIES.
   RESPONSE. Any remedial or removal actions, including but not limited to
response by local public safety and emergency agencies and subsequent actions
taken to ensure the preservation and protection of the public health, safety,
welfare and the environment.
   VESSEL. Every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance
used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water.
(Ord. 2004-17, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 131.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Notice upon discovery. When a release or a threatened release, other
than an authorized release, of a hazardous material in a quantity equal to or
exceeding the reportable quantity hereinbefore established for that material
occurs or is imminent on any facilities of any kind within the City of Midway
or any other part of Woodford County, the person in charge of those facilities,
upon discovery of the release or threatened release, or evidence that a release
has occurred even though it has apparently been controlled, shall immediately
cause notice of the existence of the release or threatened release, the
circumstances of same and the location thereof to the Versailles/Woodford
County Emergency Communications Center.
   (B)   Emergency telephone number.  The notice required to be given by this
section in the City of Midway or any other part of Woodford County may be given
by telephoning "911" (or any other emergency telephone number as may be
subsequently designated). This 1 call will meet the requirements for
notification of local agencies (LEPC, Fire Department with jurisdiction, local
DES, ambulance service and the like as required).
   (C)   Duty to control releases.  The notice required to be given by this
section shall not be construed as forbidding or otherwise exempting any person
on or about the facilities from exercising all diligence necessary to control
the release prior to or subsequent to such notice to the Emergency
Communication Center, especially if the efforts may result in the containment
of the release and/or the abatement of any hazard to life and/or property.
   (D)   Duty to report to other agencies. No statement contained in this
section shall be construed to exempt or release any person from any other
notification or reporting procedures in accordance with applicable state or
federal laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2004-17, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 131.05 ADMINISTERING AGENCY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a uniform county-wide program
for protection of the environment from uncontrolled releases of hazardous
materials to be administered by existing agencies of local government through
protocols and standard operating procedures.
(Ord. 2004-17, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 131.06 RESPONSE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Versailles/Woodford County Disaster and Emergency Services
Operation (DES) shall have authority to coordinate response to any release or
threatened release of hazardous materials in the City of Midway or any other
part of Woodford County.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the jurisdiction in which the release or threatened
release is located shall have primary authority for taking remedial or removal
actions necessary to control or contain the release or threatened release and
to assure the protection of human health, property and the environment. The
role of DES is to give technical advice and assistance to the Fire Chief.
   (C)   DES or the Fire Chief shall immediately report any release or
threatened release to the executive authority of the jurisdiction (e.g., County
Judge/Executive or his or her administrative assistant, Mayor, City
Administrative Officer, City Coordinator) if §
131.02(B) applies. If in the opinion of the executive officer of the
jurisdiction (County Judge/Executive or Mayor) that the release or threatened
release constitutes an immediate risk to human health, property, or the
environment then such executive officer shall declare the existence of a state
of emergency in the jurisdiction, and thereafter, the response authority
provided by this section shall then be vested in the chief executive officer.
In such event, the chief executive officer may authorize DES, the Fire Chief or
other appropriate person to exercise all or part of the response authority
provided by this section until further notice.
   (D)   All local emergency response personnel shall cooperate with and
operate under the direction of the chief executive officer of the jurisdiction,
the Fire Chief, DES or other person then exercising response authority under
this section until the time that the person then exercising response authority
has determined that the response is complete, or responsibility for response
has been assumed by the state or federal agency having primary jurisdiction
over the release or threatened release.
   (E)   The person exercising response authority under this section shall
coordinate and/or cooperate with other federal, state or local public health,
safety and emergency agencies involved in the response to a release or
threatened release of hazardous materials.
   (F)   The person exercising response authority under this section may, with
the approval of the executive authority of the jurisdiction, obtain vital
supplies, equipment, services and other properties found lacking and needed for
the protection of human health, property and the environment and obligate the
jurisdiction for the fair value thereof.
(Ord. 2004-17, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 131.07 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, the following persons
shall be jointly and severally liable for all costs of removal or other
remedial actions incurred by local public safety and emergency agencies as a
result of a release or threatened release of hazardous materials into the
environment:
   (A)   The owner and operator of a facility or vessel from which there is a
release or substantial threat of release of hazardous materials;
   (B)   Any person who, at the time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of hazardous materials, owned or operated the facility or vessel used
for the disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of hazardous materials;
   (C)   Any person who by contract, agreement or otherwise has arranged with
another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous materials owned, controlled or possessed by another party or entity
from which facility there is a release or substantial threat of a release of
hazardous materials; and
   (D)   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous materials for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment facilities from which there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of hazardous materials.
(Ord. 2004-17, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 131.08 AUTHORIZED RELEASE.
   There shall be no liability under this chapter for any release permitted by
local state or federal law, but only to the extent that the release is made in
accordance with an appropriate permit granted by the state or federal agency
having primary jurisdiction over the release, and that the release is in full
compliance with the permit with respect to time, location and manner of the
release so that the release will not create a hazard or potential hazard to
human health, property or the environment; or, if the release is in
substantially lesser quantities than those reportable quantities established by
state or federal law, regulations, permit requirements or ordinances of the
jurisdiction in which the release occurs.
(Ord. 2004-17, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 131.09 CONTRACTUAL INDEMNIFICATION; SUBROGATION.
   (A)   No conveyance, transfer, sale, indemnification, hold harmless or
similar agreement shall be effective to release the owner or operator of any
facility or vessel or any person who may be liable for a release of hazardous
materials or threat thereof under this chapter. Nothing in this section shall
bar any arrangements to insure, hold harmless or indemnify a party to the
agreement for any liability under this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section, including the provisions of division (A)
above, shall bar a cause of action that an owner or operator or any other
person subject to liability under this chapter, or a guarantor, has or would
have, by reason of subrogation or otherwise against any person.
(Ord. 2004-17, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 131.10 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the administering
agency or on the part of the response authority for any damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder. All persons are advised to determine to their own satisfaction the
level of protection, in addition to that required by this chapter, necessary or
desirable to ensure that there is no unauthorized release of hazardous
materials.
(Ord. 2004-17, passed 11-15-2004)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
151.   ZONING CODE
         
152.   BLIGHTED AND DETERIORATED PROPERTIES
         
153.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code
   
150.02   Designated enforcement officer; inspections
   
150.03   Building inspection program
   
150.04   Permits and fees; adopted
Property Maintenance Code
   
150.15   Adoption of Property Maintenance Code
   
150.16   Additions, insertions and changes
   
150.17   Designation of code official
   
150.18   Saving clause
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The 2018 Kentucky Building Code promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120 and the
2018 Kentucky Residential Code promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125 by the Board of
Housing, Buildings and Construction, Commonwealth of Kentucky, as they may be
amended from time to time, are adopted as if set out at length herein, and are
to be enforced by the City of midway of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   (B)   A copy of the 2018 Kentucky Building Code and the 2018 Kentucky
Residential Code is on file in the office of the City Clerk, and the Clerk
shall at all times keep a copy of the building code for reference.
   (C)   A copy of this subchapter shall be transmitted to the Department of
Housing, Buildings and Construction of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(1997 Code, § 350.1) (Ord. passed 12-3-1990; Am. Ord. 97-10, passed 7-7-1997;
Am. Ord. 2002-007, passed 5-6-2002; Am. Ord. 2013-012, passed - -2013; Am. Ord.
2019-012, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 150.02 DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; INSPECTIONS.
    The Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Planning Commission shall be
designated as the local enforcement agency for the Kentucky Building Code. All
building code inspections shall be performed by persons certified by the
Kentucky Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction. All electrical
inspections shall be performed by persons certified by the Kentucky Department
of Housing, Buildings and Construction as an electrical inspector.
(1997 Code, § 350.2) (Am. Ord. 2002-007, passed 5-6-2002; Am. Ord. 2013-012,
passed - -2013; Am. Ord. 2019-012, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 150.03 BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a building inspection program is hereby
established in the city for application to all buildings subject to 815 KAR 7:
120, Kentucky Building Code.
   (B)   The building inspection program of the city shall include plan review
and inspections of the structures subject to 815 KAR 7:125, Kentucky
Residential Code.
(Ord. 2002-007, passed 5-6-2002; Am. Ord. 2013-012, passed - -2013; Am. Ord.
2019-012, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 150.04 PERMITS AND FEES; ADOPTED.
   The fees for permits and inspections shall be as provided for in the fee
schedule established by the Planning Commission, and as amended, which schedule
is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are
available through city offices.
(Ord. 2002-007, passed 5-6-2002; Am. Ord. 2013-012, passed - -2013; Am. Ord.
2019-012, passed 11-18-2019)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.15 ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   A certain document, 3 copies of which are on file in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer, being marked and designated as The BOCA National Property
Maintenance Code, fifth edition, 1996 as published by the Building Officials
and Code Administrators International, Inc., is hereby adopted as the property
maintenance code of the City of Midway, in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, for
the control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the BOCA
National Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this subchapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.16.
(1997 Code, § 360.1) (Ord. 91-08, passed 11-4-1991; Am. Ord. 97-09, passed 7-7-
1997)
§ 150.16 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   The BOCA National Maintenance Code is amended and revised in the following
respects:
   (A)   Section PM-101.1 (page 1, second line). Insert: "City of Midway" for
[Name of Jurisdiction].
   (B)   Section PM-106.2 (page 7, third line). Insert: "$25" for the minimum
amount of the fine specified therein and "$100" for the maximum amount of the
fine specified therein.
   (C)   Section PM-106.2 (page 7, fourth line). Insert: "60 days" for "[Number
of days]."
   (D)   Section PM-304.15 (page 11, first and second lines). Insert: from
"January 1" to "December 31" for the dates therein specified.
   (E)   Section PM-602.2.1 (page 17, fifth line). Insert: from "January 1" to
"December 31" for the dates therein specified.
   (F)   Section PM-602.3 (page 17, third line). Insert: from "January 1" to
"December 31" for the dates therein specified.
(1997 Code, § 360.3) (Ord. 91-08, passed 11-4-1991; Am. Ord. 97-09, passed 7-7-
1997)
§ 150.17 DESIGNATION OF CODE OFFICIAL.
   The code official identified in the property code shall be the Building Code
Enforcement Officer of the Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Planning and
Zoning Commission, or any other officer as may be designated by the Mayor of
the city.
(1997 Code, § 360.4) (Ord. 91-08, passed 11-4-1991; Am. Ord. 97-09, passed 7-7-
1997)
§ 150.18 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Nothing in this subchapter or in the property maintenance code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any
court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of
action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed; nor
shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or
affected by this subchapter.
(1997 Code, § 360.5) (Ord. 91-08, passed 11-4-1991; Am. Ord. 97-09, passed 7-7-
1997)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Amended Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Zoning Ordinance, as amended,
copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk, is adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if fully set out at length in this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1994; Am. Ord. 04-05, passed 7-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-6-
2011; Am. Ord. passed 8-6-2012; Am. Ord. passed 8-6-2012; Am. Ord. passed 2-2-
2015; Am. Ord. passed 2-2- 2015; Am. Ord. passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-2,
passed 2-20-2017; Am. Ord. 2017-09, passed 8-24-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-03, passed
5-7-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-004, passed 5-18-2020; Am. Ord. 2020-005, passed 5-18-
2020; Am. Ord. 2020-006, passed 5-18-2020; Am. Ord. 2022-006, passed 7-18-2022;
Am. Ord. 2023-001, passed 5-1-2023)
CHAPTER 152: BLIGHTED AND DETERIORATED PROPERTIES
Section
   
152.01   Declarations
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Vacant Property Review Board
   
152.04   Procedures
   
152.05   Eminent domain proceedings
   
152.06   Use of the property by the city
   
152.07   Abandoned urban properties classified as real property
   
152.08   Rate of taxation for abandoned urban properties
   
152.09   Classification of property as abandoned urban property; right to
appeal
§ 152.01 DECLARATIONS.
   It is hereby declared:
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to protect and promote the health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of the city by eliminating the blight and
deterioration of neighborhoods through the elimination of blighted and
deteriorated properties within these neighborhoods.
   (B)   The elimination of such blight and deterioration and the preparation
of such properties for sale or lease, for development, or for redevelopment
constitute a public use and purpose for which public money may be expended and
private property acquired and these are governmental functions in the interest
of the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the city.
   (C)   The necessity in the public interest for the provisions enacted herein
is hereby declared to be a legislative determination.
(Ord. 2012-006, passed 8-20-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLIGHTED OR DETERIORATED REAL PROPERTY. A vacant structure or vacant or
unimproved lot or parcel of ground in a predominantly built-up neighborhood
which:
      (1)   Because of physical condition or use of the property is regarded as
a public nuisance at common law;
      (2)   Is considered an attractive nuisance to children by reason of
structures and appurtenances therein or thereon, including but not limited to
abandoned wells, shafts, swimming pools, basements, excavations, or the unsafe
condition of any structures, features or fences thereon;
      (3)   Is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin infested, or is lacking
in the facilities and equipment required by the city's housing or maintenance
codes, or has been designated by the Building Inspector as being unfit for
human habitation;
      (4)   Is a fire hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to the safety of
persons or property;
      (5)   Has had the utilities, plumbing, heating, sewerage, or other
facilities disconnected therefrom, destroyed, removed, or rendered ineffective
so that the property is unfit for its intended use;
      (6)   Has by reason of neglect or lack of maintenance become a place for
the accumulation of trash and debris, or a haven for rodents or other vermin;
      (7)   Has not been rehabilitated and brought into compliance with the
housing, building, plumbing, electrical, fire or nuisance code of the local
government where located within the time constraints placed upon the owner by
the appropriate permitting or code enforcement agency;
      (8)   Has been tax delinquent for a period of at least 3 years; or
      (9)   Has not been rehabilitated within the time constraints provided the
owner by the Code Enforcement Board.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839 and
Chapter 153.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law or code enforcement officer having or granted the
authority to issue a citation or as referenced herein.
   REDEVELOPMENT. The planning or replanning, design or redesign, acquisition,
clearance, development, or disposal of a property in the preparation of such
property for residential and related uses, as may be appropriate or necessary
   RESIDENTIAL AND RELATED USE. Residential property for sale or rental and
related uses, including but not limited to, park and recreation areas,
neighborhood community service, and neighborhood parking lots.
(Ord. 2012-006, passed 8-20-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020; Am. Ord.
2024-002, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 152.03 VACANT PROPERTY REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby established and created a Vacant Property Review Board
(“the Board”) for the city. Consistent with KRS 99.170(5), the duties of the
Vacant Property Review Board described in this chapter are assigned to the Code
Enforcement Board established by KRS 65.8801 to 65.8839 and
Chapter 153.
   (B)   The Board shall be charged with the duty of determining whether a
property within city limits is blighted or deteriorated in accordance with the
definition of those terms as hereinabove set forth and of carrying out the
substantive and procedural directives associated with that determination as
herein set forth.
   (C)   The Board shall conduct its business at meetings scheduled and held in
conformity with the requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act. The Board
shall establish a regular meeting schedule which shall not be less than
quarterly. When and as necessary, additional meetings outside of the schedule
established by the Board shall be called by the Mayor to consider properties
alleged by the Building Inspector or Code Enforcement Officer to be blighted or
deteriorated within the meaning of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-006, passed 8-20-2012; Am. Ord. 2024-002, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 152.04 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   When the Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Planning Commission
Building and Zoning Inspector or a Code Enforcement Officer considers any
property within the city to be blighted or deteriorated, the Inspector or
officer shall give to the owner of the property a notice and order setting
forth the conditions of the property which are in violation of local codes or
law and a time period by which to correct and abate such conditions. Such
notice and order shall further state that the property is deemed to be blighted
or deteriorated within the meaning of this chapter and that the failure to make
correction and abatement within the time period set forth will result in the
referral of the matter to the Code Enforcement Board for further proceedings in
conformity with this chapter.
   (B)   If the conditions set forth in the Inspector's or Code Enforcement
Officer's notice and order are not in full corrected and abated within the time
period therein set forth, the Inspector or Officer shall:
      (1)   Contact the Planning Director of the Planning and Zoning Commission
for determination of whether the reuse of the property for residential or
related uses is in keeping with the city's comprehensive plan and zoning
ordinances; and
      (2)   If the Planning Director determines that the reuse of the property
for residential and related uses is in keeping with the city's comprehensive
plan and zoning ordinances, the Building Inspector or Code Enforcement Officer
shall notify and refer the matter to the Code Enforcement Board for enforcement
proceedings in compliance with §§ 153.01 et seq. under the authority granted by
KRS 65.8801, as amended, of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act.
    (C)   If after consideration of the evidence presented before it at such
meeting the Board shall, by a preponderance of the evidence, find that the
property is vacant and blighted or deteriorated within the meaning of this
chapter, the Board shall notify the owner of the property or a designated agent
that a determination of blight or deterioration has been made and that failure
to eliminate the conditions causing same shall render the property subject to
condemnation by the city. Such notice shall describe the conditions that render
the property blighted or deteriorated and shall demand correction and abatement
of the conditions within 90 days of the receipt of such notice. An extension of
the 90-day period may be granted by the Board if it is demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the Board that such period is insufficient to correct the
conditions cited in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   If the correction and abatement in full shall not have been
effected within such period of time as the Board shall have determined as above
set forth, the Board shall certify to the City Council that the property is
blighted or deteriorated. Such certification shall further set forth the
Board’s determination that:
         (a)   The owner of the property or designated agent has been sent a
notice and order by the Building Inspector or Code Enforcement Officer to
eliminate the conditions which are in violation of local codes or law within a
time certain; that such notice and order further set forth that the property is
deemed to be blighted or deteriorated within the meaning of this chapter, and
that the failure to make correction and abatement would result in the matter
being referred to the Vacant Property Review Board for further proceedings in
conformity with this chapter;
         (b)   The conditions set forth in the notice and order were not
corrected and abated within the time period therein set forth;
         (c)   The property is vacant;
         (d)   The Board has notified the property owner or designated agent
that the property has been determined to be blighted or deteriorated and the
time period for correction of that condition granted by the Board has expired
and the property owner or agent has failed to comply with the notice; and
         (e)   The Planning Director has determined that the reuse of the
property for residential and related use is in keeping with the city’s
comprehensive plan and zoning ordinances.
      (2)   The certification and findings required by this section shall be in
writing signed by the chairperson of the Board and included in the Board’s
report to the City Council.
   (E)   Notice which may be, or is required to be, given under the terms of
this chapter shall be in writing and sent via first class mail, sufficient
postage prepaid, and certified, return receipt requested, and a copy of any
such notice shall further be posted in a conspicuous place on the property
affected. Unless the owner of the property in question shall have notified the
Building Inspector or Code Enforcement Officer otherwise, the identity of the
owner and the owner’s mailing address shall be conclusively presumed to be as
appear as such in the records maintained in the office of the County Property
Valuation Administrator. Notice given in accordance with the foregoing shall be
deemed effective on the date of receipt; provided, however, that same shall
conclusively be deemed to have been received not later than the fifth business
day following the date when same was delivered to the post office.
(Ord. 2012-006, passed 8-20-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020; Am. Ord.
2024-002, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 152.05 EMINENT DOMAIN PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council may institute eminent domain proceedings in
accordance with the provisions of KRS Chapter 416 against any property, and may
through such proceedings acquire any property which has been certified as
blighted or deteriorated by the Board if it finds:
      (1)   That the property has deteriorated to such an extent as to
constitute a serious and growing menace to the public health, safety, and
welfare;
      (2)   That the property is likely to continue to deteriorate unless
corrected;
      (3)   That the continued deterioration of the property may contribute to
the blighting or deterioration of the area immediately surrounding the
property; and
      (4)   That the owner of the property has failed to correct the
deterioration of the property.
   (B)   The findings required as above set forth shall be included in any
order of the Council authorizing the institution of eminent domain proceedings.
(Ord. 2012-006, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 152.06 USE OF THE PROPERTY BY THE CITY.
   The city, following its acquisition by eminent domain of a blighted or
deteriorated property in accordance with the foregoing provisions, shall have
the power to hold, clear, manage, or dispose of the property so acquired for
residential and related use.
(Ord. 2012-006, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 152.07 ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTIES CLASSIFIED AS REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Abandoned urban property is established as a separate classification
of real property for the purpose of ad valorem taxation.
   (B)   As used in this section, ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY as defined in
divisions (1) or (2) below, shall mean:
      (1)   Any vacant structure or vacant or unimproved lot or parcel of
ground in the city that has been vacant or unimproved for a period of at least
1 year and which:
         (a)   Is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin infested, or
otherwise dangerous to the safety of persons, or is unfit for its intended use;
         (b)   By reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a place
for the accumulation of trash and debris, or has become infested with rodents
or other vermin;
         (c)   Has been tax delinquent for a period of at least 3 years; or
         (d)   Is located within a development area established under KRS
65.7049, 65.7051, and 65.7053, as amended.
      (2)   Any property in the city that has been identified as "blighted" or
"deteriorated" as defined in §
152.02 and certified as such by the Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 2012-006, passed 8-20-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020; Am. Ord.
2024-002, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 152.08 RATE OF TAXATION FOR ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTIES.
   The rate of taxation levied upon abandoned urban properties is 75 cents on
each $100.00 of assessed value.
(Ord. 2012-006, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 152.09 CLASSIFICATION OF PROPERTY AS ABANDONED URBAN PROPERTY; RIGHT TO
APPEAL.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall each year determine which properties
in the city are abandoned urban properties and shall prepare and furnish a list
of abandoned and urban properties located in the city to the City Clerk prior
to January 1 of each year.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided herein, a property classified by the city
as abandoned urban property as of January 1 shall be taxed as abandoned urban
property for that tax year. If the owner repairs, rehabilitates, or otherwise
returns the property to productive use so that the property is no longer
abandoned urban property, the owner shall notify the Code Enforcement Board,
which shall, if it finds that the property is no longer abandoned urban
property, notify the City Clerk to strike the property from the list of
abandoned urban properties as of the succeeding January 1.
   (C)   No later than March 1 of each year, the City Clerk shall mail, by
first-class mail, to the owner(s) of each abandoned urban property, whose name
(s) is/are listed in the records of the Code Enforcement Board, a notice that
the property has been classified as abandoned urban property.
   (D)   The owner of any abandoned urban property who believes that their
property has been incorrectly classified may appeal the classification to the
city's Code Enforcement Board. The appeal shall be in writing and shall be made
no later than April 1 of that year. The city shall afford the owner the
opportunity for a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board. If the Code
Enforcement Board finds that the property was incorrectly classified as
abandoned urban property, it shall cause the property to be removed from the
list of properties so classified.
(Ord. 2012-006, passed 8-20-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-015, passed 1-6-2020)
CHAPTER 153: CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Creation and membership
   
153.03   Enforcement powers
   
153.04   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
153.05   Jurisdiction of Board
   
153.06   Organization of Board; meetings; quorum
   
153.07   Conflict of interest
   
153.08   Powers of the Code Enforcement Board
   
153.09   Enforcement proceedings
   
153.10   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
153.11   Presentation of cases
   
153.12   Appeals; final judgment; failure to comply with Board order
   
153.13   Ordinance civil fine schedule
   
153.14   Lien; fines, charges, and fees
   
153.15   Lienholder notification system
   
153.16   Liens
   
153.17   Immediate action
   
153.18   Stop work order
   
153.19   Administrative search warrant
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT COSTS. A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and associated
with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all or a
portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard to a
structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. An administrative body created and acting under the
authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law or code enforcement officer having or granted the
authority to issue a citation.
   FINAL ORDER. Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
153.09(E);
      (2)   Issued because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within 7 days as provided in §
153.08(F); or
      (3)   Issued because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
153.09(C).
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   ORDINANCE. An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   OWNER. A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.02 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created within the city pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS
65.8839, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of no fewer than 3
members, all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least 1
year before creation of the Board and shall reside there throughout their term
in office.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.03 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.04 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to approval by the legislative body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third of the membership or 1/3 of the membership and 1 member
of the Board shall be appointed for a term of 1 year;
      (2)   One-third of the membership or 1/3 of the membership and 1 member
of the Board shall be appointed for a term of 2 years; and
      (3)   One-third of the membership or 1/3 of the membership and 1 member
of the Board shall be appointed for a term of 3 years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of 3 years. A member
may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body. Members
are not limited in the number of terms they may serve; however, members may not
serve more than 2 consecutive terms.
   (D)   The Mayor may appoint, subject to the approval of the legislative
body, 2 alternate members to serve on the Code Enforcement Board in the absence
of regular members. Alternate members shall meet all of the qualifications and
shall be subject to the same requirements that apply to regular members of the
Code Enforcement Board.
   (E)   Any vacancy on the board shall be filled by the Mayor, subject to
approval of the legislative body, within 60 days of the vacancy. A vacancy
shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (F)   A Board member may be removed from office by the Mayor for misconduct,
inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The Mayor shall submit a written
statement to the member and the legislative body setting forth the reasons for
removal. The member so removed shall have the right of appeal to the Circuit
Court.
   (G)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by Section 228
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or non-
elected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or
with any city, county or governmental agency whose duties include enforcement
of housing, building, plumbing, fire, maintenance, or related codes. Serving on
the Code Enforcement Board shall be a compensable appointment. Each Board
member shall be paid $25 per meeting attended, including alternate members
called to serve on the Board.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020; Am. Ord. 2024-002, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 153.05 JURISDICTION OF BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have jurisdiction and the authority to
enforce any violations herein provided for and any violations of KRS 65.8840
and to enforce §§
92.20 through
92.47 and §§
152.02 through
152.09 of this Code and compel compliance with the other of the city and
Versailles-Midway-Woodford County Planning Commission Building and Zoning
ordinances, including, building, construction, maintenance and occupational
license ordinances.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.06 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a Chair from among its
members. The Chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the Chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
Chair.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall establish a regular meeting schedule
which shall not be less than quarterly. Meetings other than those regularly
scheduled shall be special or emergency meetings held in accordance with the
requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The presence of at least a majority of the Board's entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept of all proceedings of the Code Enforcement Board
and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded
in the minutes.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself or herself from participating
in Board discussion and voting on the matter in which he has an interest, and
shall not be counted for purposes of establishing a quorum. In the event of a
conflict, an alternate member shall serve in the place of the Board member
having the conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.08 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD.
   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any code
enforcement officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath with the chairman having the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.09 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Except when immediate action is necessary pursuant to §
153.17, if a code enforcement officer believes, based on his or her personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
or she shall issue a notice of violation allowing the alleged violator a
specified period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If
the alleged violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time
specified, the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person 18 years of age or
older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the premises at
the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued who can be served the citation.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed or noted to exist;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable:
         (a)   The civil fine that will be imposed if the person does not
contest the citation; and
         (b)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects
to contest the citation;
         (c)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
         (d)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: (i) the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; (ii) the determination that the
violation was committed shall be final; (iii) the citation as issued shall be
deemed a final order determining that the violation was committed and imposing
the civil fine as set forth in the citation; and, (iv) the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the City Clerk, Attention: Mayor.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within the time allotted, as specified by the Code Enforcement
Officer, but not less than 10 days, by either paying the civil fine or
requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the person fails
to respond to the citation within the allotted time, the person shall be deemed
to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a violation
was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation as issued
shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was committed and
imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
(a) regular first- class mail; (b) certified mail, return receipt requested;
(c) personal delivery; or (d) by leaving the notice at the person's usual place
of residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or
older and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020; Am. Ord. 2024-002, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 153.10 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than 10 days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by (a) regular first class mail; (b)
certified mail, return receipt requested; (c) personal delivery; or (d) by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is informed of the
contents of the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
(a) regular first-class mail; (b) certified mail, return receipt requested; (c)
personal delivery; or (d) by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of
residence with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken from the Code Enforcement Officer, any witnesses to
the violation offered by the Code Enforcement Officer or alleged violator and
from the alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but
fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a
fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by (a) regular
first class mail; (b) certified mail, return receipt requested; (c) personal
delivery; or (d) by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.11 PRESENTATION OF CASES.
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, or a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or
by a member of the city's administrative staff. The City Attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board, but in no case shall serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.12 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT; FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH BOARD ORDER.
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
153.09(E) may be made to the Woodford County District Court within 30 days of
the date the order of the Board is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the
filing of a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any
civil action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in division (A) above, the Code Enforcement Board's
order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
   (C)   Any individual who fails to adhere to a final order of the Code
Enforcement Board shall be issued a second citation and ordered to appear
before the Code Enforcement Board for violation of the Board Order, which shall
be processed as an additional and separate violation to any remaining
violations on the property and processed as a civil penalty.
   (D)   Any individual who fails to adhere to 2 consecutive final orders shall
be issued a third citation and processed with a criminal penalty and shall not
qualify as a civil penalty, thus resulting in the filing of a misdemeanor
offense with the Woodford District Court is discussed in §
153.13(C).
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020; Am. Ord. 2024-002, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 153.13 ORDINANCE CIVIL FINE SCHEDULE.
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the City Code Enforcement
Board shall be subject to the following schedule of civil fines:
   (A)   For offenses within a 24-month period where the violation is not
remedied within the time period allowed by the ordinance, and the citation for
a violation of an ordinance is not contested by the person charged with the
violation, the penalties set forth in this subsection, if not waived at the
discretion of the Board due to compliance, shall apply:
Violation First Offense Second Offense All Others
Violation                         First Offense Second Offense All Others
Animals                           $75           $150           $300
Unsafe and Unfit Structure Code   $300          $375           $450
Garbage                           $30           $105           $150
Occupational License              $150          $225           $300
Weeds, Grass, Rubbish and Burning $30           $105           $150
General Nuisances (§             $60           $105           $150
92.22)
Abandoned Vehicles (§            $75           $150           $300
92.45)
 
   (B)   For offenses within a 24-month period where the violation is not
remedied within the time period allowed by the ordinance, and if the citation
is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board is required, the
following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion of the Code
Enforcement Board:
Violation First Offense Second Offense All Others
Violation                        First Offense Second Offense All Others
Animals                          $300          $600           $900
Building and Construction Code   $1,500        $2,250         $3,000
Garbage                          $225          $450           $750
Occupational License             $1,500        $2,250         $3,000
Weeds Grass, Rubbish and Burning $150          $225           $300
General Nuisances (§ 92.22)     $150          $225           $450
Abandoned Vehicles (§ 92.45)    $150          $225           $450
 
   (C)   The criminal penalty for violation for failing to comply with 3
consecutive Code Enforcement Board orders shall be a fine of not less than
$1,000, nor more than $3,000 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 30 days,
or both, at the discretion of the court, for each offense. Each day that a
violation continues past the Code Enforcement Board order date of compliance
shall be deemed a separate offense. A criminal violation of this section is a
misdemeanor.
   (D)   If a violation of an ordinance penalty is not provided for above, the
penalty shall be as otherwise set forth in the City of Midway Code of
Ordinances.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020; Am. Ord. 2024-002, passed 4-22-2024)
§ 153.14 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES, AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a non-appealable final order as defined by § 153.01(D), or by a final judgment
of the court, to have committed a violation of a city ordinance. The lien shall
be for all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees
incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs. An affidavit of the Code Enforcement Officer and/or
City Clerk or Assistant City Clerk shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the county clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest at the rate of 8% per annum until paid. The lien shall continue for 10
years following the date of the non-appealable final order or final court
judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
153.15, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (A), the person found
to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount
of all civil fines assessed for the violation and for all charges, fees and
abatement costs incurred by the city in connection with the enforcement of the
ordinance. The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall have
the same remedies as provided for in the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.15 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The city's lien for non-payment of a fine or costs of abatement shall obtain
and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as provided in §
153.13, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the City Clerk:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city web site
to submit the information required by division (B) above. It shall be the
responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required contact
information with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any evidence
received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not functional so
that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing address.
   (D)   Once per month, the city shall send electronic mail notification of
all final orders entered pursuant to this chapter since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city web site. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this chapter, the
city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within 14 days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
ordinance, the city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post the notification required by division (D)
above containing an updated link to the code enforcement database on the city
web site.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for 10
years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.16 LIENS.
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
153.14(B) may, within 45 days from the date of issuance of notification under §
153.14(D):
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
153.16.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
153.13 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
153.14 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with division (A) above.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under division (C) above shall, if the final order remains partially
unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent liens except
liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the 45-day period established in
division (A) above expires. If the lien is fully satisfied prior to the
expiration of the 45-day period, the city shall release the lien in the County
Clerk's Office where the lien is recorded within 15 days of satisfaction.
   (f)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
153.14 and
153.15, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as
provided in division (C), shall not limit or restrict any other remedies the
city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.17 IMMEDIATE ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.18 STOP WORK ORDER.
   A Code Enforcement Officer may order the immediate cessation of any
construction or reconstruction work being done in violation of any ordinance,
or being done on property that is in violation of any ordinance. The stop work
order shall be issued in conjunction with, or in supplement to, a citation for
the violation. Work shall not resume until the violation has been remedied and
any applicable fees and fines have been paid.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 153.19 ADMINISTRATIVE SEARCH WARRANT.
   (A)   Definition. An ADMINISTRATIVE SEARCH WARRANT is a written order of a
judge, or other officer authorized by statute to issue search warrants, that
commands a search or inspection of any property, place or thing, and the
seizure, photographing, copying, or recording of property or physical
conditions found. An ADMINISTRATIVE SEARCH WARRANT authorizes an officer to
enter any premises to conduct any inspection, sampling, and other functions
required or authorized by law to determine compliance with the provisions of an
ordinance, code, or other regulation, including, but not limited to, those
relating to the use, condition, or occupancy of property or structures.
   (B)   Who may apply for a warrant.
      (1)   When a law requires or authorizes an inspection or investigation of
any property, place or thing, the Administrative Officer charged to enforce
that law, acting in the course of his or her official duties, may apply for an
administrative search warrant. For this purpose, Administrative Officer
includes a building inspector, code enforcement officer, fire chief, their
assistants or deputies, or other duly authorized representative, as the case
may be.
      (2)   Before filing an application for an administrative search warrant,
the Administrative Officer shall consult with legal counsel as to its legality
in both form and substance.
   (C)   Contents of application. The application shall:
      (1)   Be supported by an affidavit sufficient under Section 10 of the
Kentucky Constitution and be sworn to before an officer authorized to
administer oaths as provided in the Kentucky Rules of Criminal Procedure or
other applicable law;
      (2)   State the applicant's status in applying for the warrant, the
ordinance or regulation requiring or authorizing the inspection or
investigation, and the nature, scope and purpose of the inspection to be
performed;
      (3)   Describe the property or places to be entered, searched, inspected
or seized in sufficient detail and particularity that the officer executing the
warrant can readily ascertain it;
      (4)   State that:
         (a)   For the purpose of making an inspection, access to the property
has been sought from and refused by the regulated party;
         (b)   After making a reasonable effort, the applicant has been unable
to locate the regulated party; or
         (c)   The facts and circumstances reasonably show that the purposes of
the inspection or investigation might be frustrated if entry were sought
without first procuring a warrant.
      (5)   State the basis upon which sufficient cause exists to search or
inspect for violations of the ordinance or regulation specified.
   (D)   Grounds for issuance.
      (1)   An administrative search warrant may issue upon the showing that
probable cause for the inspection or investigation exists, and that the other
requirements for granting the warrant are satisfied. Probable cause may be
shown by:
         (a)   Reasonable legislative or administrative standards for
conducting a routine, periodic or area inspection, and that those standards are
satisfied with respect to the location;
         (b)   Existence of a reasonable administrative inspection program
regarding the condition of the property, and that the proposed inspection comes
within that program;
         (c)   A health, public protection or safety ordinance, regulation,
rule or standard order, and that specific evidence of a condition or non-
conformity exists with respect to the particular location; or
         (d)   An investigation reasonably believed to be necessary to
determine or verify the condition of the location.
      (2)   A copy of the administrative search warrant and supporting
affidavit shall be retained by the issuing officer and filed by such officer
with the clerk of the court to which the warrant is returnable.
   (E)   Contents of warrant. The warrant:
      (1)   May direct its execution and return by the administrative officer
charged to enforce the ordinance or regulation specified in the application;
      (2)   Shall specify the property, place, structure, premises, vehicle or
records to be searched, inspected or entered upon in sufficient detail or
particularity that the officer executing the warrant can readily ascertain it;
      (3)   May contain a direction as to the time and manner of its execution;
and
      (4)   Shall command return to the appropriate court any evidence of
ordinance violations found, or of any property seized pursuant thereto, or a
description of such property.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 1-6-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
         
II.   BONDS
         
III.   DEDICATIONS
         
IV.   ANNEXATIONS
         
V.   ZONING AMENDMENTS
         
VI.   BUDGET AND TAXES
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishing the city's participation in the Kentucky
2002-004 2-18-2002   Municipal Risk Management Association for self-insurance,
                     insurance and investment programs
2019-010 10-7-2019   Granting a cable television franchise to CMN-RUS, Inc.
                     Approving the execution and delivery of a lease agreement
2019-013 12-2-2019   with Lakeshore Warehouse East, LLC and a lease agreement
                     with Lakeshore Equipment Company
                     Approving a lease with the Kentucky Bond Corporation for
2022-002 3-21-2022   the financing of a project, providing for its payment and
                     security, and creating a sinking fund
                     Approving a five-year extension of the current cable
2022-008 9-6-2022    television franchise agreement with Spectrum Mid-America,
                     LLC, an indirect subsidiary of Charter Communications,
                     Inc.
                    
 
TABLE II: BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
98-09    11-19-1998  Authorizing issuance of bonds for the construction of the
                     University of Kentucky Basketball Museum, Inc. project
2001-001 1-2-2001    Authorizing a supplemental trust indenture and amended
                     bonds note
2001-008 12-17-2001  Authorizing the issuance of general water and sewer
                     revenue bonds
2001-009 12-17-2001  Authorizing the issuance of water and sewer system revenue
                     bond anticipation notes
                     Authorizing the issuance of bonds for a community multi-
06-007   - -         purpose facility at 1552 Georgetown Road in Lexington,
                     Kentucky
                     Authorizing the issuance of educational facilities
2016-09  10-3-2016   refunding revenue bonds, Series 2016, Providence
                     Montessori School, Inc., project
                     Authorizing the issuance of 2 series of industrial revenue
2019-013 12-2-2019   bonds: Series 2019, Lakeshore Warehouse East project and
                     Series 2019, Lakeshore Equipment Company project
                     Authorizing the issuance of 2 series of industrial revenue
2023-003 9-5-2023    bonds: Series 2023, Lakeshore Warehouse East Project and
                     Series 2023, Lakeshore Learning Materials Project
                    
 
TABLE III: DEDICATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2004-015 11-1-2004   Establishing the name of the city's park at Lee's Branch
2004-016 11-1-2004   Establishing the name of the city's athletic field
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
-     - -    Annexation of South Winter Street and Walnut Street (1997 Code, § 111.1)
-     - -    Annexation of West Stephen Street or Spring Station Road; West Higgins
             Street; West Bruen Street (1997 Code, § 111.2)
-     - -    Annexation of south end of Winter Street (1997 Code, § 111.3)
-     - -    Annexation of U.S. Highway 62 and U.S. Highway 421 (1997 Code, § 111.4)
-     - -    Annexation of southeast of Cogartown (1997 Code, § 111.5)
-     - -    Annexation of land known as the Ike Rouse property, northeast of Cogartown
             (1997 Code, § 111.6)
-     - -    Annexation of East U.S. 421 (1997 Code, § 111.7)
-     - -    Annexation of West U.S. 421 (1997 Code, § 111.8)
-     - -    Annexing the disposal plant property (1997 Code, § 111.9)
-     - -    Annexation of land owned by the Mitchell Brothers, site of Midway Auto
             Service (1997 Code, § 111.10)
110.4 7-12-  Annexation of 9 acres, Mill Road Place (1997 Code, § 111.11)
      1982
-     5-14-  Annexation of 33.86 acres, known as Lee's Creek Glen Property (1997 Code, §
      1990   111.12)
-     8-5-   Annexation of Homeplace Farm (Roach property), 3 tracts (1997 Code, §
      1991   111.13)
93-   9-20-  Annexation of Spring Station Road, cemetery and sewer lift station (1997
017   1993   Code, § 111.14)
97-05 3-3-   Annexation of Northridge Estates, Unit II, approximately 50.6 acres (1997
      1997   Code, § 111.15)
98-08 11-16- Annexing Betsy B. Weems property, approximately 8.292 acres, on U.S. Highway
      1998   421 at the I-64 interchange
99-12 12-6-  Annexing the wastewater treatment property, approximately 5.612 acres,
      1999   located on U.S. Highway 421
2010- 11-1-  Annexing approximately 31 acres of land adjacent to city limits
09    2010
2016- 11-21- Annexing approximately 33.485 acres, located at Highway 341 adjacent to
12    2016   Midway Station
2017- 2-20-  Annexing 34.184 acres located at Kentucky Highway 341 adjacent to Midway
01    2017   Station
2019- 3-4-   Annexing 137.743 gross acres located at Kentucky Highway 341 - Georgetown
001   2019   Road adjacent to Midway Station
2021- 4-19-  Annexing 7.48 acres located at 315 North Winter Street
005   2021
2021- 11-15- Annexing 65.88 acres located at 158 West Leestown Road
009   2021
2024- 1-22-  Annexing 0.90 acres located at 399 Northside Drive
001   2024
            
 
TABLE V: ZONING AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      12-14- Rezoning 2 tracts, 0.722 acre east of South Gratz Street and south of East
98-10 1998   Higgins Street, from B-2 to R-3, and 0.012 acre east of South Gratz Street and
             south of East Higgins Street from R-2 to R-3
99-05 3-15-  Rezoning 510 South Winter Street from R-4 to R-4 with Old Historic Business
      1999   Overlay
00-   9-19-  Rezoning property located at 330 North Gratz Street, from B-2 to I-1
009   2000
2004- 6-21-  Rezoning 7.00 acres of the Roach property on KY Highway 341, from A-1 to R-3
03    2004
06-   4-17-  Rezoning property located at 133 North Main Street from R-3 to OHB-2
0000  2006
06-   7-27-  Rezoning property located at 309 Smith Street from I-1 to OHB-3
0000  2006
06-   10-2-  Rezoning property located at 501 North Winter Street from R-1B to B-5
0001  2006
06-   10-2-  Rezoning property located at 502 North Winter Street from R-3 to B-5
0002  2006
07-07 7-2-   Rezoning property located at 107 West Main Street from R-3 to OHB-2
      2007
08-   5-19-  Rezoning property located at 241 Leestown Road from A-1 and CO-1 to I-1
0002  2008
08-   9-29-  Rezoning the property Midway Station located at the northeast corner of I-64
011   2008   and Ky Highway 341 in Woodford County:
           Tract A - 3.367 acres from B-5 to P-1;
           Tract B - 8.081 acres from I-1 to P-1;
           Tract C - 0.854 acres from I-1 to B-5;
           Tract D - 31.544 acres from I-1 to R-3;
           Tract E - 31.627 acres from I-1 to R-1C;
           Tract F - 71.341 acres from I-1 to R1C;
           Tract G - 2.921 acres from I-1 to B-5;
           Tract H - 2.507 acres from A-1 to B-5; and
           Tract I - 0.009 acres from A-1 to P-1.
2009- 10-19- Rezoning the property located at 241 Leestown Road in the following manner:
21    2009
           0.524 acres from A-1 to I-2;
           0.660 acres from CO-1 to I-2; and
           0.808 acres from I-1 to I-2.
2010- 11-15- Rezoning the property at 671 East Stephnes Street/Weisenberger Mill Road from
11    2010   A-1 to R-3.
2014- 4-28-  Rezoning the property Midway Station, Lot 1 located on the north side of
003   2014   McKinney Avenue in the following manner:
           2.921 acres from B-5 to I-1;
           9.003 acres from R-3 to I-1; and
           31.627 acres from R-1C to I-1.
2014- 11-3-  Rezoning the property located at 620 Georgetown Road in the following manner:
011   2014   37.11 acres from A-1 to I-1; and 7.005 acres from R-3 to I-1.
2015- 1-7-   Rezoning the property at 327 Smith Street, owned by 3000 Versailles Road, LLC,
09    2016   from I-1 to R-3.
2017- 2-20-  Rezoning property located at Kentucky Highway 341 adjacent to Midway Station
01    2017   from A-1 to I-1.
2018- 10-15- Rezoning property at 630-775 McKinney Avenue (Midway Station) from R-1C and R-
009   2018   3 to I-1.
2019- 6-3-   Rezoning the remaining P-1 and R-3 zoned property within Midway Station to B-
004   2019   5 and I-1.
2019- 10-7-  Rezoning property located at 1132 Georgetown Road from A-1 to I-1.
011   2019
             Rezoning property located the following properties located at 314 North Winter
2022- 2-7-   Street in the following manner:
001   2022      3.75 acres from R-1A to R-1B;
                0.81 acre from R1-A to R-1C; and the remainder of 8.07 gross acres (7.48
             net    acres) to remain unchanged as R-1A.
             Rezoning the following previously platted lots in Midway Station, totaling
             15.350 acres, from B-5 to I-1:
                (1)    Lot 5 of Section 1 of Unit 1, 1.578 acres;
                (2) Lot 6 of Section 1 of Unit 1, 2.950 acres;
                (3) Lot 11 of Section 2 of Unit 1, 0.502 acre;
                (4) Lot 12 of Section 2 of Unit 1, 0.534 acre;
2022- 6-21-     (5) Lot 13 of Section 2 of Unit 1, 0.652 acre;
005   2022      (6) Lot 14 of Section 2 of Unit 1, 0.571 acre;
                (7) Lot 15 of Section 2 of Unit 1, 0.948 acre;
                (8) Lot 16 of Section 2 of Unit 1, 1.119 acres;
                (9) Lot 17 of Section 2 of Unit 1, 3.120 acres;
                (10) Lot 18 of Section 2 of Unit 1, 1.469 acres;
                (11) Lot 19 of Section 2 of Unit 1, 0.922 acre;
                (12) Lot 20 of Section 2 of Unit 1, 0.980 acre.
2022- 10-17- Of the 61.67 acres of property located 158 West Leestown Road, rezoning 9.46
009   2022   acres from A-1 to I-1.
            
 
TABLE VI: BUDGET AND TAXES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        8-13-1979   Tax rate
-        - -1980     Tax rate
-        8-20-1981   Tax rate
-        9-13-1982   Tax rate
-        7-28-1983   Tax rate
-        8-13-1984   Tax rate
-        8-29-1985   Tax rate
-        8-28-1986   Tax rate
-        9-6-1988    Tax rate for real property and personal property
-        8-31-1989   Tax rate for real property and personal property
-        10-1-1990   Tax rate for real property and personal property
91-07    9-27-1991   Tax rate for real property and personal property
92-14    9-9-1992    Tax rate for real property and personal property
93-16    8-19-1993   Tax rate for real property and personal property
93-20    10-4-1993   Tax rate for real property and personal property
94-07    9-5-1994    Tax rate for real property
94-08    10-17-1994  Tax rate for personal property
95-07    9-5-1995    Tax rate for personal property
95-08    9-28-1995   Tax rate for real property
96-05    8-19-1996   Tax rate for real property
96-06    8-19-1996   Tax rate for personal property
97-11    9-8-1997    Tax rate for real property
97-12    9-8-1997    Tax rate for personal property
98-04    6-18-1998   Budget for 1998-1999
98-05    8-24-1998   Tax rate for real property
98-06    8-24-1998   Tax rate for personal property
99-07    6-14-1999   Budget for 1999-2000
99-08    8-23-1999   Tax rate for real property
99-09    8-23-1999   Tax rate for personal property
2000-006 6-19-2000   Budget for 2000-2001
2000-007 8-21-2000   Tax rate for real property
2000-008 8-21-2000   Tax rate for personal property
-        6-18-2001   Budget for 2001-2002
2001-005 9-4-2001    Tax rate for real property
2001-006 9-4-2001    Tax rate for personal property
2002-009 6-17-2002   Amending budget for 2001-2002
2002-010 6-17-2002   Budget for 2002-2003
2002-015 9-3-2002    Tax rate for personal property
2002-016 9-3-2002    Amending budget for 2002-2003
2002-18  9-16-2002   Tax rate for real property
2003-    6-16-2003   Budget for 2003-2004
2003-11  9-2-2003    Tax rate for real property
2003-12  9-2-2003    Tax rate for personal property
-        6-21-2004   Budget for 2004-2005
2004-08  8-16-2004   Tax rate for personal property
2004-09  8-16-2004   Tax rate for real property
04-012   9-7-2004    Amending budget for 2004-2005
2005-08  6-20-2005   Amending budget for 2004-2005
2005-09  6-20-2005   Budget for 2005-2006
2005-012 9-6-2005    Tax rate for real property
2005-013 9-6-2005    Tax rate for personal property
2006-03  7-17-2006   Budget for 2006-2007
2006-04  8-21-2006   Tax rate for real property
2006-005 8-21-2006   Tax rate for personal property
2006-05  11-6-2006   Amending budget for 2005-2006
2006-008 12-4-2006   Amending budget for 2005-2006
2007-05  4-16-2007   Amending budget for 2006-2007
2007-06  6-4-2007    Budget for 2007-2008
2007-07  9-17-2007   Tax rate for real property
2007-08  9-17-2007   Tax rate for personal property
2008-003 5-19-2008   Budget for 2008-2009
2008-005 8-4-2008    Amending budget for 2008-2009
2008-08  8-10-2008   Tax rate for personal property
2008-09  8-18-2008   Tax rate for real property
2009-06  5-18-2009   Budget for 2009-2010
2009-07  6-15-2009   Amending budget for 2008-2009
2009-16  9-21-2009   Tax rate for real property
2009-17  9-21-2009   Tax rate for personal property
2010-002 6-7-2010    Budget for 2010-2011
2010-003 6-28-2010   Amending budget for 2009-2010
2010-04  8-16-2010   Tax rate for real property
2010-05  8-16-2010   Tax rate for personal property
2011-04  8-15-2011   Tax rate for personal property
2011-05  8-15-2011   Tax rate for real property
2012-05  5-21-2012   Budget for 2012-2013
2012-009 10-1-2012   Amending budget for 2011-2012
2012-10  9-4-2012    Tax rate for real property
2012-11  9-4-2012    Tax rate for personal property
2013-02  5-20-2013   Budget for 2013-2014
2013-008 8-19-2013   Tax rate for real property
2013-009 8-19-2013   Tax rate for personal property
2014-002 6-2-2014    Budget for 2014-2015
2014-007 9-2-2014    Tax rate for personal property
2014-008 8-18-2014   Tax rate for real property
2015-003 6-1-2015    Budget for 2015-2016
2015-005 -           Budget for 2014-2015
2015-06  9-8-2015    Tax rate for personal property
2015-07  9-8-2015    Tax rate for real property
2016-002 6-4-2016    Budget and appropriations for 2016-2017
2016-06  9-6-2016    Tax rate for personal property
2016-07  8-15-2016   Tax rate for real property
2017-004 6-5-2017    Budget and appropriations for 2017-2018
2017-06  8-21-2017   Tax rate for real property
2017-07  8-21-2017   Tax rate for personal property
2018-005 6-4-2018    Budget and appropriations for 2018-2019
2018-006 9-4-2018    Tax rate for real property
2018-007 9-4-2018    Tax rate for personal property
2019-02  4-4-2019    Budget and appropriations for 2018-2019
2019-005 6-20-2019   Budget and appropriations for 2019-2020
2019-06  9-3-2019    Tax rate for real property
2019-07  9-3-2019    Tax rate for personal property
2020-001 1-21-2020   Budget and appropriations for 2019-2020
2020-007 6-15-2020   Budget and appropriations for 2020-2021
2020-009 9-8-2020    Tax rate for real property
2021-007 6-7-2021    Budget and appropriations for 2021-2022
2021-008 8-16-2021   Tax rate for real and personal property
2022-003 6-21-2022   Budget and appropriations for 2021-2022
2022-004 6-21-2022   Budget and appropriations for 2022-2023
2022-007 9-6-2022    Tax rate for real and personal property
2023-002 6-20-2023   Budget and appropriations for 2023-2024
2023-004 9-5-2023    Tax rate for real and personal property
2024-003 6-24-2024   Budget and appropriations for 2024-2025
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to 1997 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section        Code Section
6.050              30.58
6.955 - 6.975      34.005
13B.080            94.09
13B.090            94.09
15.409             38.26
16.220             72.46
18A.225(2)         34.016
18A.228            34.016
Ch. 31          38.26
41.240(4)          34.006
42.450 - 42.495    34.005
Ch. 45A            38.26
Ch. 56             38.26
61.168             38.26
61.169             38.26
61.810             36.56
61.823(2) - (4)    91.015
                   36.20,
                   36.53,
61.870 - 61.884    36.59,
                   36.60,
                   38.15,
                   38.27
61.870(1)          38.01
61.870(2)          38.01
61.870(3)          38.01
61.870(4)          38.01
61.870(5)          38.01
61.870(6)          38.01
61.870(7)          38.01
61.870(8)          38.01
61.870(9)          38.01
61.872(1)-(3)      38.15
61.872(4)          38.16
61.872(5)          38.17
61.872(6)          38.18
61.874(1)          38.22
61.874(2)          38.22
61.874(3)          38.23
61.874(4)          38.23
61.874(5)          38.24
61.874(6)          38.25
61.878             38.01
61.878(1)          38.26
61.878(2)          38.26
61.878(3)          38.26
61.878(4)          38.26
61.878(5)          38.26
61.880(1)          38.19 ,
                   38.26
61.884             38.21
62.020             31.01
62.060             31.04
Ch. 64             31.31
64.527             34.116
65.003             36.03
65.067             31.04
65.7049            152.07
65.7051            152.07
65.7053            152.07
65.760             34.115
65.870             130.21
65.8801            152.04
                   152.03,
65.8801 to 65.8839 153.01,
                   153.02,
                   153.14
65.8815(5)         153.06
65.8840            153.05
66.660             91.006
67.083(7)          131.02
Ch. 78             31.35
78.510(21)         37.06
82.082             36.03
                   30.31,
Ch. 83A            31.10,
                   31.35
83A.010(5)         10.02
83A.010(6)         10.02
83A.010(8)         10.02
83A.030(1)         30.16
83A.040(1)         31.11
83A.040(2)(a)      31.11
83A.040(2)(c)      31.11
83A.040(2)(d)      31.11
83A.040(3)         31.11
83A.040(4)         30.30
83A.040(5)         30.31
83A.040(6)         31.11
83A.040(7)         30.31,
                   31.11
83A.040(8)         30.31,
                   31.11
83A.040(9)         31.03
83A.045(2)(b)      31.10
83A.050            31.10
83A.050(1)         31.10
83A.060(1)         30.45
83A.060(2)         30.46
83A.060(3)         30.46
83A.060(4),(7)     30.48
83A.060(5)         30.50
83A.060(6)         30.35
83A.060(8)         30.51,
                   30.52
83A.060(9)         30.53
83A.060(10)        30.54
83A.060(11)        30.55
83A.060(12),(13)   30.56
83A.060(14)        30.57
83A.060(15)        30.58
83A.065            10.99
83A.070            31.02
83A.075            31.02
83A.080            31.31,
                   36.04
83A.080(3)         31.03
83A.080(3),(4)     31.10
83A.085            31.15
83A.130(1)         30.15
83A.130(2)         30.16
83A.130(3)         31.11
83A.130(4)         31.11
83A.130(5)         30.33
83A.130(6)         30.49
83A.130(7)         31.11
83A.130(8)         31.11
83A.130(9)         31.11
83A.130(10)        31.11
83A.130(11)        30.32
83A.130(12)        30.32
83A.130(13)        30.32
83A.165            31.10
91.484 - 91.527    34.031
91A.010            34.002
91A.010(8)         10.02
91A.020            34.003
91A.030            34.004
91A.040            34.005,
                   34.999
91A.050            34.005
91A.060            34.006
91A.350 - 91A.390  32.02
91A.360            32.02
91A.360(a),(b),(c) 32.02
91A.360(1)(d)      32.02
Ch. 99             34.015
99.170(5)          152.03
Ch. 100            32.03
100.253            112.03
Chs. 116 - 121     31.10
Ch. 118            31.10
131.010(6)         34.016
131.190            38.26
133.220(2)         34.116
Ch. 134            34.031
Ch. 136            34.100
136.120            34.072
154.20-010         32.01
Ch. 154.26         32.01
154.26-010(7)      32.01
Ch. 154.28         32.01
154.28-010(8)      32.01
174.100            91.015
174.100(1)         91.016 ,
                   91.017
174.100(2)         91.017
174.100(3)         91.018
174.100(4)         91.019
174.100(5)         91.020
177.915            92.45
178.290            91.006
186.020            72.46,
                   92.45
186.043            92.45
186.560            71.050
186A.145           72.46
186A.190           72.46,
                   92.47
189.020            71.052
189.021            71.050
189.125            70.37
189.290            71.050
189.338            70.15
189.450(5),(6)     72.03
189.580            71.020
189.725            72.08
189.930            71.051
196.099            38.01
198B.060(8)        150.03
Ch. 227            92.88
227.700            92.85
227.702            92.85
227.702(1)         92.85
227.702(1)(A)-(H)  92.90
227.706            92.85
227.710            92.85,
                   92.89
227.715            92.85
227.750            92.99
Ch. 228            31.17
Chs. 241 - 244     Ch. 114
Chs. 241 - 245     34.054
242.990            114.99
Ch. 243            34.054,
                   34.072
243.990            114.99
244.990            114.99
Ch. 281            72.46
281.605(12)        72.46
281.920 - 281.936  72.46
281.926            72.46
281.928            72.46
281.928(1)         72.46
281.932            72.46
Ch. 337            31.35
344.010(4)         94.02
344.030(1)         94.02
344.130            94.02
359.230            72.46
376.275            72.46,
                   92.46
376.275(1)         72.46
376.275(2)         72.46
376.275(3)         72.47
381.770            92.24
Ch. 386            10.02
Ch. 386A           10.02
Ch. 393            92.46
Ch. 416            152.05
Ch. 424            34.005
424.120            34.005
424.220            34.005
424.220(6)(b)      34.005
446.010(1)         10.02
446.010(2)         10.02
446.010(6)         10.02
446.010(8)         10.02
446.010(9)         10.02
446.010(10)        10.02
446.010(12)        10.02
446.010(13)        10.02
446.010(14)        10.02
446.010(15)        10.02
446.010(17)        10.02
446.010(18)        10.02
446.010(23)        10.02
446.010(25)        10.02
446.010(26)        10.02
446.010(27)        10.02
446.010(28)        10.02
446.010(30)        10.02
446.010(31)        10.02
446.010(33)        10.02
446.010(36)        10.02
446.010(37)        10.02
446.010(39)        10.02
446.010(43)        10.02
446.010(46)        10.02
446.010(47)        10.02
446.010(49)        10.02
446.010(55)        10.02
446.020(1)         10.03
446.020(2)         10.03
446.030            10.04
446.050            10.05
446.060            10.06
446.080(1)         10.03
446.080(3)         10.03
446.080(4)         10.03
446.090            10.07
446.100            10.08
446.110            10.09
446.140            10.01
506.030            112.04
Ch. 510            112.04
520.010            38.01
525.125            90.02
525.130            90.02
527.020            130.21
Ch. 528            112.04
Ch. 529            112.04
Ch. 531            112.04
534.040(2)(c)      10.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO 1997 CODE
1997 Code Section 2006 Code Section
1997 Code Section 2006 Code Section
111.2             T.S.O. IV
111.3             T.S.O. IV
111.4             T.S.O. IV
111.5             T.S.O. IV
111.6             T.S.O. IV
111.7             T.S.O. IV
111.8             T.S.O. IV
111.9             T.S.O. IV
111.10            T.S.O. IV
111.11            T.S.O. IV
111.12            T.S.O. IV
111.13            T.S.O. IV
111.14            T.S.O. IV
111.15            T.S.O. IV
120.1             30.34
120.2             30.35
120.3             30.36
120.5             31.02
160.1             36.01
160.2             36.02
160.3             36.03
160.4             36.04
161.1             36.15
161.2             36.16
161.3             36.17
161.4             36.18
161.5             36.19
161.6             36.20
161.7             36.21
161.8             36.22
162.1             36.35
162.2             36.36
162.3             36.37
162.4             36.38
162.5             36.39
162.6             36.40
163.1             36.23
164.1             36.50
164.2             36.51
164.3             36.52
164.4             36.53
164.5             36.54
164.6             36.55
164.7             36.56
164.8             36.57
164.9             36.58
164.10            36.59
164.11            36.60
164.12            36.99
211.0             31.18
212.0             31.19
222.1.4           34.032
222.101           34.030,
                  34.999
222.103           34.031
222.200           34.045
222.203           34.999
222.206           34.999
222.208           34.999
222.209           34.999
222.210           34.999
222.211           34.999
222.212           34.056,
                  34.999
222.214           34.999
225.1             34.100
225.3             34.101
225.4             34.102
225.5             34.103
225.6             34.104
229.1             34.001
230.1             37.02
230.1A            37.03
230.3             37.04
230.4             37.05
237.0             37.06
245.1             35.01
245.2             35.02
245.3             35.03
245.4             35.04
245.5             35.05
245.6             35.06
245.7             35.99
251.0             31.16
300.1             33.01,
                  33.99
311.0             33.15
312.0             33.16
350.1             150.01
350.2             150.02
360.1             150.15
360.3             150.16
360.4             150.17
360.5             150.18
411.0             110.01,
                  110.99
430.1             110.15,
                  110.99
451.1             111.01
451.2             111.02
451.3             111.03
451.4             111.04
451.5             111.05
451.6             111.06
451.7             111.07
451.8             111.08
451.9             111.09
521.0             71.001
522.0             71.002
523.1             71.036;
                  Ch. 73, Sch. II
524.1             70.35
524.2             70.36
524.3             70.37
524.4             70.38
524.5             70.39
524.6             70.99
                  72.14,
541.0             72.30;
                  Ch. 74, Sch. I
541.1             72.31;
                  Ch. 74, Sch. II
610.0             50.01
610.1             52.18
610.2             52.17
610.3             52.15
610.4             52.16
610.5             52.19
611.0             53.153
611.1             53.154
611.2             53.156
612.0             51.45
615.1             52.01,
                  52.99
615.2             52.02
615.3             52.03,
                  52.99
615.4             52.04,
                  52.99
620.1             53.001
620.2             53.002,
                  53.999
620.3             53.004
620.4             53.003
621.1             53.015
621.2             53.016
621.3             53.017
621.4             53.018
621.5             53.019
622.1             53.030
622.2             53.031
623.1             53.045
623.2             53.046
624.1             53.060
624.2             53.061
624.3             53.062
624.4             53.063
624.5             53.064
624.6             53.065
624.7             53.066
624.8             53.067
624.9             53.068
625.1             53.080
625.2             53.081
625.3             53.082
625.4             53.083
625.5             53.084
625.6             53.085
625.7             53.086
625.8             53.087
625.9             53.088
625.10            53.089
625.11            53.090
625.12            53.091
626.1             53.150
626.2             53.151
626.3             53.152
627.1             53.110,
                  53.999
627.2             53.111
627.3             53.112
627.4             53.113
628.1             53.114
628.2             53.115
629.1             53.130
629.2             53.999
629.3             53.131
629.4             53.132
629.5             53.133,
                  53.999
629.6             53.134
629.7             53.135
629.8             53.136
640.1             91.045
640.2             91.046
641.1             91.060,
                  91.999
641.2             91.061,
                  91.999
650.1             96.01,
                  96.99
                  51.01,
660.0             51.15 -
                  51.20,
                  51.99
821.1             92.01
821.2             92.02
821.3             92.03
821.4             92.04
821.5             92.05
821.6             92.06
821.7             92.07
830.1             51.30
831.1             51.31
831.2             51.32
831.3             51.33
831.4             51.34
831.5             51.99
831.6             51.35,
                  51.99
860.1             93.01
860.2             93.02
860.3             93.03
860.4             93.04
860.5             93.05
860.6             93.06
860.7             93.07
860.8             93.07
1010.1            92.20,
                  92.99
1010.2            92.21
1010.3            92.22,
                  92.99
1010.4            92.23,
                  92.99
1020.1            130.01
1020.3            130.03
1020.4            130.04
1020.5            130.05
1020.6            130.20
1020.8            130.06
1020.9            130.07
1020.10           130.08
1020.11           130.21
1022.1            90.15
1022.2            90.06
1022.4            90.16
                  
 
REFERENCE TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         T.S.O. IV
430.2    - -         34.045
–      6-11-1979   52.01,
                     52.99
–      8-13-1979   T.S.O. VI
–      - -1980     T.S.O. VI
–      1-7-1980    52.18,
                     53.153
                     72.14,
–      5-12-1980   72.30;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I
610.4    6-8-1981    52.15
860.1    8-10-1981   93.02 -
                     93.07
–      8-20-1981   T.S.O. VI
                     71.002,
                     72.14,
540.2    5-10-1982   72.30;
                     Ch. 73, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I
610.9    6-14-1982   91.045
110.4    7-12-1982   T.S.O. IV
610.10   7-12-1982   52.04,
                     52.99
–      9-13-1982   T.S.O. VI
860.2    9-13-1982   93.07
220.9    1-10-1983   34.001
–      7-28-1983   T.S.O. VI
610.2    10-17-1983  52.17
                     50.01,
–      4-9-1984    51.45,
                     52.18
–      8-13-1984   T.S.O. VI
610.1    9-10-1984   53.153
–      7-8-1985    93.02 -
                     93.07
860.1    7-8-1985    93.01,
                     93.07
860.2    7-8-1985    93.07
–      8-29-1985   T.S.O. VI
–      9-9-1985    52.18
                     37.02,
–      12-9-1985   37.04,
                     37.05
–      6-2-1986    92.20,
                     92.99
–      8-28-1986   T.S.O. VI
–      9-1-1986    53.153
–      12-1-1986   52.18
610      12-1-1986   52.15
–      1-4-1988    34.031
430.3    8-22-1988   91.061,
                     91.999
–      9-6-1988    T.S.O. VI
–      12-5-1988   52.18,
                     52.19
1012.0   6-5-1989    92.45
                     52.18,
–      8-14-1989   52.19,
                     53.156
–      8-31-1989   T.S.O. VI
–      2-5-1990    37.03
–      5-7-1990    33.01,
                     33.99
–      5-14-1990   T.S.O. IV
–      7-25-1990   52.18
                     91.060,
–      8-6-1990    91.999,
                     111.01 -
                     111.09
–      8-20-1990   51.45,
                     52.19
–      10-1-1990   T.S.O. VI
–      12-3-1990   150.01
–      12-10-1990  33.15
–      8-5-1991    T.S.O. IV
                     53.001,
                     53.003,
                     53.004,
                     53.015 -
                     53.019,
                     53.030,
                     53.031,
                     53.045,
                     53.046,
91-05    9-2-1991    53.060 -
                     53.068,
                     53.080 -
                     53.091,
                     53.110 -
                     53.115,
                     53.130 -
                     53.136,
                     53.150 -
                     53.152,
                     53.999
91-07    9-27-1991   T.S.O. VI
91-08    11-4-1991   150.15 -
                     150.18
–      11-14-1991  52.18
92-02    3-2-1992    52.02
                     51.31 -
92-03    3-2-1992    51.35,
                     51.99
92-004   4-6-1992    92.01 -
                     92.07
92-006   4-6-1992    33.16
92-007   5-4-1992    71.036;
                     Ch. 73, Sch. II
92-008   5-4-1992    52.16
                     52.15,
92-009   5-4-1992    52.19,
                     53.156
92-011   6-1-1992    52.18
92-013   9-7-1992    91.061,
                     91.999
92-14    9-9-1992    T.S.O. VI
                     35.02 -
92-019   10-14-1992  35.06,
                     35.99
92-20    12-7-1992   91.046
92-021   12-7-1992   93.02
93-003   2-1-1993    93.07
                     70.35 -
93-001   3-1-1993    70.39,
                     70.99
–      3-10-1993   52.18
93-011   3-10-1993   53.153
93-014   6-7-1993    30.34
93-015   6-21-1993   37.06
93-16    8-19-1993   T.S.O. VI
93-017   9-20-1993   T.S.O. IV
93-20    10-4-1993   T.S.O. VI
94-001   2-21-1994   52.16
–      7-5-1994    151.01
94-07    9-5-1994    T.S.O. VI
94-08    10-17-1994  T.S.O. VI
                     36.01 -
                     36.04,
                     36.15 -
                     36.23,
–      12-5-1994   36.35 -
                     36.40,
                     36.50 -
                     36.60,
                     36.99
95-03    6-9-1995    36.23
–      9-5-1995    51.45
95-06    - -         51.45
95-07    9-5-1995    T.S.O. VI
95-08    9-28-1995   T.S.O. VI
95-09    12-18-1995  96.01,
                     96.99
                     51.01,
95-10    12-18-1995  51.15 -
                     51.20,
                     51.99
95-01    2-19-1996   31.02
96-05    8-19-1996   T.S.O. VI
96-06    8-19-1996   T.S.O. VI
96-07    10-21-1996  130.21
96-08    11-18-1996  30.34
96-09    12-2-1996   34.100 -
                     34.104
97-04    2-3-1997    130.20
97-05    3-3-1997    T.S.O. IV
97-07    3-17-1997   53.156
97-08    5-19-1997   93.07
97-09    7-7-1997    150.15 -
                     150.18
97-10    7-7-1997    150.01
97-11    9-8-1997    T.S.O. VI
97-12    9-8-1997    T.S.O. VI
97-13    12-1-1997   51.45
98-001   2-2-1998    50.03
98-002   6-1-1998    33.01
98-04    6-18-1998   T.S.O. VI
98-05    8-24-1998   T.S.O. VI
98-06    8-24-1998   T.S.O. VI
98-09    11-19-1998  T.S.O. II
98-10    12-14-1998  T.S.O. V
99-02    1-4-1999    93.05
99-04    3-1-1999    34.016
99-05    3-15-1999   T.S.O. V
99-07    6-14-1999   T.S.O. VI
99-08    8-23-1999   T.S.O. VI
99-09    8-23-1999   T.S.O. VI
99-11    12-6-1999   52.19,
                     53.156
2000-002 3-20-2000   91.060
2000-003 5-15-2000   34.015
2000-006 6-19-2000   T.S.O. VI
2000-007 8-21-2000   T.S.O. VI
2000-008 8-21-2000   T.S.O. VI
00-009   9-19-2000   T.S.O. V
2001-001 1-2-2001    T.S.O. II
–      6-18-2001   T.S.O. VI
2001-005 9-4-2001    T.S.O. VI
2001-006 9-4-2001    T.S.O. VI
2001-007 11-19-2001  32.02,
                     32.99
2001-008 12-17-2001  T.S.O. II
2001-009 12-17-2001  T.S.O. II
2002-004 2-18-2002   T.S.O. I
2002-007 5-6-2002    150.01 -
                     150.04
2002-008 5-6-2002    71.035
2002-006 5-16-2002   34.015
2002-009 6-17-2002   T.S.O. VI
2002-010 6-17-2002   T.S.O. VI
02-013   6-24-2002   53.153
2002-014 8-19-2002   50.02
2002-015 9-3-2002    T.S.O. VI
2002-016 9-3-2002    T.S.O. VI
2002-18  9-16-2002   T.S.O. VI
03-01    4-21-2003   93.07
                     72.14,
2003-02  5-5-2003    72.30;
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I
2003-03  5-5-2003    30.34
03-04    5-19-2003   93.04,
                     93.06
                     95.01 -
03-05    6-2-2003    95.12,
                     95.99
03-07    6-16-2003   92.45
03-08    6-16-2003   51.45
2003-    6-16-2003   T.S.O. VI
–      7-21-2003   53.155
2003-09  7-21-2003   53.154,
                     53.155
03-10    9-2-2003    37.01
2003-11  9-2-2003    T.S.O. VI
2003-12  9-2-2003    T.S.O. VI
–      6-21-2004   T.S.O. VI
04-02    6-21-2004   96.02,
                     96.99
2004-03  6-21-2004   T.S.O. V
                     112.01 -
04-05    7-19-2004   112.05,
                     151.01
04-06    8-16-2004   32.01
                     91.075 -
04-07    8-16-2004   91.078,
                     91.999
2004-08  8-16-2004   T.S.O. VI
2004-09  8-16-2004   T.S.O. VI
2004-10  8-16-2004   32.01
                     91.075 -
2004-11  8-16-2004   91.078,
                     91.999
04-012   9-7-2004    T.S.O. VI
2004-013 9-7-2004    53.156
2004-014 11-1-2004   30.01
2004-015 11-1-2004   T.S.O. III
2004-016 11-1-2004   T.S.O. III
2004-17  11-15-2004  131.01 -
                     131.10
2005-01  1-4-2005    52.18
2005-02  1-4-2005    92.46,
                     92.47
2005-03  1-4-2005    92.45
2005-05  6-6-2005    51.16
2005-06  6-6-2005    72.99
                     71.037,
–      6-20-2005   72.99;
                     Ch. 73, Sch. III
2005-07  6-20-2005   111.30 -
                     111.48
2005-08  6-20-2005   T.S.O. VI
2005-09  6-20-2005   T.S.O. VI
2005-011 8-1-2005    53.156
2005-012 9-6-2005    T.S.O. VI
2005-013 9-6-2005    T.S.O. VI
2005-14  11-7-2005   72.15
2005-15  12-5-2005   31.02
2005-17  12-5-2005   72.09
2006-01  1-17-2006   72.14,
                     72.30
06-0000  4-17-2006   T.S.O. V
2006-02  6-19-2006   92.60 -
                     92.66
2006-03  7-17-2006   T.S.O. VI
06-0000  7-27-2006   T.S.O. V
2006-04  8-21-2006   T.S.O. VI
2006-005 8-21-2006   T.S.O. VI
06-0001  10-2-2006   T.S.O. V 
06-0002  10-2-2006   T.S.O. V
06-006   10-2-2006   92.99
06-007   - -         T.S.O. II
2006-05  11-6-2006   T.S.O. VI
2006-008 12-4-2006   T.S.O. VI
2006-009 12-4-2006   Adopting Ordinance
2007-01  2-5-2007    Ch. 73, Sch. III
2007-002 3-5-2007    52.19
2007-003 3-5-2007    53.156
2007-004 3-5-2007    51.45
2007-05  4-16-2007   T.S.O. VI
2007-06  6-4-2007    T.S.O. VI
07-07    7-2-2007    T.S.O. V
2007-07  9-17-2007   T.S.O. VI
2007-08  9-17-2007   T.S.O. VI
2007-10  11-5-2007   93.07
2007-11  11-5-2007   Adopting Ordinance
2008-001 3-17-2008   52.15
08-0002  5-19-2008   T.S.O. V
2008-003 5-19-2008   T.S.O. VI
2008-004 6-16-2008   34.070 -
                     34.082
2008-005 8-4-2008    T.S.O. VI
2008-006 6-16-2008   91.032
2008-07  8-4-2008    T.S.O. VI
2008-08  8-10-2008   T.S.O. VI
2008-09  8-18-2008   T.S.O. VI
2008-10  8-18-2008   93.07
08-011   9-29-2008   T.S.O. V
2008-14  11-17-2008  34.045
2008-15  12-1-2008   Adopting Ordinance
2008-16  12-1-2008   31.20
2008-17  12-19-2008  50.04
2009-01  2-2-2009    51.16
2009-04  4-6-2009    35.20 
2009-05  5-4-2009    Ch. 73, Sch. III
2009-06  5-18-2009   T.S.O. VI
2009-07  6-15-2009   T.S.O. VI
2009-08  6-15-2009   34.054
2009-09  6-15-2009   110.01
2009-10  6-15-2009   110.15
2009-11  6-15-2009   114.08
2009-12  6-15-2009   114.07
2009-13  6-15-2009   114.99
2009-14  6-15-2009   52.18
2009-15  8-3-2009    Adopting Ordinance
2009-16  9-21-2009   T.S.O. VI
2009-17  9-21-2009   T.S.O. VI
2009-20  10-5-2009   51.16
2009-21  10-19-2009  T.S.O. V
2009-22  11-2-2009   37.01
2009-23  12-21-2009  93.02
2009-24  1-4-2010    34.031
2010-001 3-15-2010   32.04
2010-002 6-7-2010    T.S.O. VI
2010-003 6-28-2010   T.S.O. VI
2010-004 8-16-2010   T.S.O. VI
2010-005 8-16-2010   T.S.O. VI
2010-06  9-20-2010   34.033
2010-07  9-20-2010   34.031
2010-08  9-20-2010   34.057 -
                     34.063
2010-09  11-1-2010   T.S.O. IV
2010-10  10-18-2010  Adopting Ordinance
2010-11  11-15-2010  T.S.O. V
2010-12  12-20-2010  52.18
2011-002 6-6-2011    114.07
–      6-6-2011    151.01
2011-003 8-16-2011   31.30 -
                     31.35
2011-04  8-15-2011   T.S.O. VI
2011-05  8-15-2011   T.S.O. VI
                     114.01 -
2012-001 2-6-2012    114.09,
                     114.99
                     10.99,
                     72.02,
                     72.05,
                     72.07,
                     72.09,
2012-002 3-19-2012   72.12,
                     72.14,
                     72.15,
                     72.16,
                     72.30,
                     72.99
2012-003 2-20-2012   34.054,
                     34.055
2012-004 5-7-2012    90.99
2012-05  5-21-2012   T.S.O. VI
–      8-6-2012    151.01
–      8-6-2012    151.01
2012-006 8-20-2012   152.01 -
                     152.09
2012-009 10-1-2012   T.S.O. VI
2012-10  9-4-2012    T.S.O. VI
2012-11  9-4-2012    T.S.O. VI
2012-12  10-1-2012   33.16
2012-13  11-19-2012  Adopting Ordinance
2012-14  11-19-2012  130.21
13-001   4-15-2013   96.02
2013-02  5-20-2013   T.S.O. VI
2013-05  6-10-2013   114.07
                     97.01 -
2013-06  7-15-2013   97.05,
                     97.99
2013-008 8-19-2013   T.S.O. VI
2013-009 8-19-2013   T.S.O. VI
2013-010 9-3-2013    Adopting Ordinance
2013-11  11-4-2013   34.054
2013-012 - -2013     150.01 -
                     150.04
2014-001 3-17-2014   110.15
2014-002 6-2-2014    T.S.O. VI
2014-003 4-28-2014   T.S.O. V
2014-04  4-28-2014   52.20
                     92.75,
2014-005 6-2-2014    92.85 -
                     92.90,
                     92.99
                     98.01 -
2014-006 8-18-2014   98.13,
                     98.99
2014-007 9-2-2014    T.S.O. VI
2014-008 8-18-2014   T.S.O. VI
                     91.075 -
2014-10  10-6-2014   91.078,
                     91.999
2014-011 11-3-2014   T.S.O. V
–      2-2-2015    151.01
–      2-2-2015    151.01
2015-001 5-18-2015   51.45
2015-002 6-1-2015    94.01 -
                     94.12
2015-003 6-1-2015    T.S.O. VI
                     92.75,
2015-004 7-6-2015    92.76,
                     92.99
2015-005 –         T.S.O. VI
2015-06  9-8-2015    T.S.O. VI
2015-07  9-8-2015    T.S.O. VI
2015-08  1-4-2016    Adopting Ordinance
2015-09  1-7-2016    T.S.O. V
2016-001 3-21-2016   31.10
2016-002 6-4-2016    T.S.O. VI
2016-003 6-6-2016    51.45
2016-004 6-20-2016   91.060,
                     91.999
2016-005 7-18-2016   130.22
2016-006 7-18-2016   130.99
2016-06  9-6-2016    T.S.O. VI
2016-07  9-6-2016    T.S.O. VI
2016-08  9-19-2016   32.05
2016-09  10-3-2016   T.S.O. II
2016-12  11-21-2016  T.S.O. IV
- -      12-5-2016   151.01
2017-01  2-20-2017   T.S.O. IV,
                     V
2017-2   2-20-2017   151.01
2017-003 5-15-2017   51.45
2017-004 6-5-2017    T.S.O. VI
2017-06  8-21-2017   T.S.O. VI
2017-07  8-21-2017   T.S.O. VI
2017-08  - -         Adopting Ordinance
2017-09  8-24-2017   151.01
2017-05  9-18-2017   31.02
2018-03  5-7-2018    151.01
2018-005 6-4-2018    T.S.O. VI
                     90.01,
                     90.02,
                     90.05 ,
2018-04  7-2-2018    90.06,
                     90.10,
                     90.15,
                     90.16,  
                     90.99
2018-005 8-20-2018   51.45
2018-006 9-4-2018    T.S.O. VI
2018-007 9-4-2018    T.S.O. VI
2018-008 10-15-2018  Adopting Ordinance
2018-009 10-15-2018  T.S.O. V
2018-10  12-17-2018  53.153
2019-001 3-4-2019    T.S.O. IV
2019-02  4-4-2019    T.S.O. VI
                     93.01,
2019-003 5-20-2019   93.02,
                     93.04,
                     93.07
2019-004 6-3-2019    T.S.O. V
2019-005 6-20-2019   T.S.O. VI
2019-06  9-3-2019    T.S.O. VI
2019-07  9-3-2019    T.S.O. VI
2019-010 10-7-2019   T.S.O. I
2019-011 10-7-2019   T.S.O. V
2019-012 11-18-2019  150.01 -
                     150.04
2019-013 12-2-2019   T.S.O. I,
                     T.S.O. II
2019-014 1-6-2020    153.01 -
                     153.19
                     92.22 -
                     92.30,
                     92.45 -
                     92.47,
2019-015 1-6-2020    152.01,
                     152.02,
                     152.04,
                     152.07,
                     152.09
2020-001 1-21-2020   T.S.O. VI
2020-002 3-2-2020    35.02,
                     35.03
2020-003 4-6-2020    34.115 -
                     34.122
2020-004 5-18-2020   151.01
2020-005 5-18-2020   151.01
2020-006 5-18-2020   151.01
2020-007 6-15-2020   T.S.O. VI
2020-008 8-3-2020    35.20 -
                     35.22
2020-009 9-8-2020    T.S.O. VI
2020-010 10-5-2020   90.01 -
                     90.17
2021-005 4-19-2021   T.S.O. IV
2021-007 6-7-2021    T.S.O. VI
2021-008 8-16-2021   T.S.O. VI
2021-009 11-15-2021  T.S.O. IV
2022-001 2-7-2022    T.S.O. V
2022-002 3-21-2022   T.S.O. I
2022-003 6-21-2022   T.S.O. VI
2022-004 6-21-2022   T.S.O. VI
2022-005 6-21-2022   T.S.O. V
2022-006 7-18-2022   151.01
2022-007 9-6-2022    T.S.O. VI
2022-008 9-6-2022    T.S.O. I
2022-009 10-17-2022  T.S.O. V
2022-010 11-21-2022  93.02
2023-001 5-1-2023    151.01
2023-002 6-20-2023   T.S.O. VI
2023-003 9-5-2023    T.S.O. II
2023-004 9-5-2023    T.S.O. VI
2024-001 1-22-2024   T.S.O. IV
                     92.27,
                     153.02 -
                     152.04,
2024-002 4-22-2024   152.07,
                     153.04,
                     153.09,
                     153.12,
                     153.13
2024-003 6-24-2024   T.S.O. VI
                    
 
