CITY OF MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-13 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 1- -24; and
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS OF MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY
MAYOR
BILLY PHELPS
COUNCILMEMBERS
DUSTIN EMBRY          SHARON JOHNSON
JASON GASKEY          GARY SOUTHERLAND
RUSSELL GIVENS        BRYAN LOCKE
CITY OFFICIALS
CITY ADMINISTRATOR    JERROD BARKS
POLICE CHIEF          GILES TAYLOR
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR BRAD JOHNSON
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NUMBER 93-10
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MORGANTOWN ADOPTING THE MORGANTOWN MUNICIPAL CODE
   WHEREAS, the Book Publishing Company, Seattle, Washington, has compiled,
edited and published a codification of the permanent and general ordinances of
the city of Morgantown, KY and
WHEREAS, there is now on file in the office of the city clerk, for public
inspection, three copies of a document entitled "Morgantown Municipal Code;"
THEREFORE, it is ordained by the City Council of the city of Morgantown that
the Morgantown Municipal Code is adopted.
SECTION 1.   Adoption. There is hereby adopted the "Morgantown Municipal Code,"
as compiled, edited an published by Book Publishing Company, Seattle,
Washington.
SECTION 2.   Title; Citation; Reference. This code shall be known as the
"Morgantown Municipal Code" and it shall be sufficient to refer to said code as
the "Morgantown Municipal Code" in any prosecution for the violation of any
provision thereof or in any proceeding at law or equity. It shall be sufficient
to designate any ordinance adding to, amending, correcting or repealing of the
"Morgantown Municipal Code." Further reference may be had to the titles,
chapters, sections and subsections of the "Morgantown Municipal Code" and such
references shall apply to that numbered title, chapter, section or subsection
as it appears in the code.
SECTION 3.   Reference Applies to all Amendments. Whenever a reference is made
to this code as the "Morgantown Municipal Code" or to any portion thereof, or
to any ordinance of the city of Morgantown, KY, codified herein, the reference
shall apply to all amendments, corrections and additions heretofore, now or
hereafter made.
SECTION 4.   Title, Chapter and Section Headings. Title, chapter and section
headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in
any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any title,
chapter or section hereof.
SECTION 5.   Reference of Specific Ordinances. The provisions of this code
shall not in any manner affect matters of record which refer to, or are
otherwise connected with ordinances which are therein specifically designated
by number or otherwise and which are included within the code, but such
reference shall be construed to apply to the corresponding provisions contained
within this code.
SECTION 6.   Effect of Code on Past Actions and Obligations. The adoption of
this code does not affect prosecutions for ordinance violations committed prior
to the effective date of this code, does not waive any fee or penalty due and
unpaid on the effective date of this code, and does not affect the validity of
any bond or cash deposit posted, filed or deposited pursuant to the
requirements of any ordinance.
   This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon passage and
publication.
   FIRST READING:               September 2, 1993.
   SECOND READING AND ENACTMENT:   September 22, 1993.
CITY OF MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY
APPROVED BY:
\s\ Charles T. Black
Mayor
ATTEST:
\s\ Janice F. Smith
City Clerk
ORDINANCE NUMBER 2002-03
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT
INCLUDED THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREIN EXPRESSLY PROVIDED; AND PROVIDING WHEN THIS
ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY:
   SECTION 1. That the Code of Ordinances, consisting of Chapters 10 to 80, and
Tables 1 to 8, each inclusive, be and is hereby adopted and enacted as the
"Code of Ordinances of Morgantown, Kentucky," and shall be treated and
considered as a new and original comprehensive ordinance which shall supersede
all other general and permanent ordinances of the City passed on or before June
13, 2002, to the extent provided in Section 2 hereof.
   SECTION 2. That all provisions of such Code shall be in full force and
effect from and after the date of adoption and all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature of the City of Morgantown enacted on final passage on or
before June 13, 2002, and not included in such Code or recognized and continued
in force by reference therein are hereby repealed from and after the date of
adoption except as hereinafter provided.
   SECTION 3. That the repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not affect
the following:
   (A)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this ordinance;
   (B)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the
City, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the City or any evidence of
the City's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the City;
   (C)   Any ordinance authorizing the execution of agreements with other
governments or agencies;
   (D)   Any ordinance fixing salaries of officers or employees of the City;
   (E)   Any appropriation ordinance;
   (F)   Any right of franchise granted to any person, firm, or corporation;
   (G)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating,
opening, closing, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in
the City;
   (H)   Any ordinance establishing any official position of the City which is
not specifically referred to in the Code;
   (I)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements or assessing taxes
therefor;
   (J)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the
City, or providing regulations for the same;
   (K)   Any ordinance annexing property to the City;
   (L)   Any zoning ordinance or amendment thereto, except as inconsistent with
the said code provisions.
   (M)   Any subdivision ordinances or amendment thereto;
   (N)   Any taxation ordinance;
   (O)   Any ordinance prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations,
prescribing through streets, parking limitations, parking prohibitions, one-way
traffic, limitations on loads of vehicles or loading zones, or dealing with
parking meters, parking meter zones or flow of traffic generally, not
inconsistent with such Code;
   (P)   Any ordinance dealing with the electric, water, sewer or sewage
disposal utilities of the City or fixing charges for use of such facilities;
   (Q)   Any ordinance enacted after June 13, 2002, nor shall such repeal be
construed to revive any ordinance or part of an ordinance that is repealed by
this ordinance.
   SECTION 4. That a copy of said Code of Ordinances as adopted shall be placed
on file in the office of the City Clerk and shall be available to public
inspection in said office.
   SECTION 5. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed. This ordinance to be
published according to law.
   First reading held November 12, 2002.
   Second reading held December 9, 2002.
CITY OF MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY   
APPROVED BY A VOTE
Ayes:                        Nays:
Roger Gaskey /s/      
Harold R. West /s/      
Robbie Philips /s/      
Ricky Romans /s/
Robert H. Tuck /s/
Richard Scott /s/
Charles T. Black /s/
Mayor
ATTEST:
Janice F. Van Zant /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE 2007-01
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2006 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Morgantown, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Morgantown:
   SECTION 1. That the 2006 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Morgantown, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 12th day of February, 2007
Passed on First Reading: January 8, 2007
Adopted on Second Reading: February 12, 2007
Signed by Mayor                                            
Published in Paper February 21, 2007
Recorded by Clerk Anita Gossett
Mayor                                      
ATTEST:
Anita Gossett /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE 2008-02
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2007 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Morgantown, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Morgantown:
   SECTION 1. That the 2007 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Morgantown, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 14th day of February, 2008
Passed on First Reading: February 14, 2008
Adopted on Second Reading: March 13, 2008
Signed by Mayor  Eva J. Hawes
Published in Paper April 2, 2008
Recorded by Clerk Anita Gossett
Mayor  Eva Gossett /s/
ATTEST:
Anita Gossett /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE 2010-11
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2010 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Morgantown, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Morgantown:
   SECTION 1. That the 2010 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Morgantown, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 9th day of December, 2010
Passed on First Reading: November 18, 2010
Adopted on Second Reading: December 9, 2010
Mayor  Eva Gossett /s/
ATTEST:
Anita Gossett /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE 2012-02
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2011-S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Morgantown, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Morgantown:
   SECTION 1. That the 201l-S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Morgantown, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this .
Passed on First Reading: Jan. 19, 2012
Adopted on Second Reading: Feb. 9, 2012
Signed by Mayor: Feb. 9, 2012
Published in Paper: March 14, 2012
Recorded by Clerk: Anita Gossett, Feb. 10, 2012
               Linda Keown /s/
               Mayor
ATTEST:
Anita Gossett /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE 2013-02
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2012 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Morgantown, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Morgantown:
   SECTION 1. That the 2012 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Morgantown, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 14 day of February, 2013.
Passed on First Reading: January 10, 2013
Adopted on Second Reading: February 14, 2013
Signed by Mayor: February 15, 2013
Published in the Paper: March 6, 2013
Recorded by Clerk: February 15, 2013
               Linda Keown /s/
               Mayor
ATTEST:
Anita Gossett /s/
City Clerk
ORDINANCE 2014-06
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MORGANTOWN, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2014 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Morgantown, KY, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Morgantown:
   SECTION 1. That the 2014 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Morgantown, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 29 day of May, 2014.
Passed on First Reading: 5-8-14
Adopted on Second Reading: 5-29-14
Signed by Mayor: 5-29-14
Published in the Paper: 6-4-14
Recorded by Clerk: 5-30-14
               Linda Keown /s/
               Mayor
ATTEST:
Anita Gossett /s/
City Clerk
TITLE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
CHAPTER 10   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
10.001   Code designation
   
10.002   Definitions
   
10.003   Rules of construction
   
10.004   Signatures and writings
   
10.005   Severability of parts of code
   
10.006   Rights or liability accrued before repeal of ordinance
   
10.007   Ordinances affected by codification
   
10.008   Conflicting sections or provisions
   
10.009   Omissions or errors
   
10.010   Historical references
   
10.011   Titles, articles, division, and section headings
   
10.012   References to code
   
10.013   City seal
   
10.014   Right of entry by city official
 
   
10.999   General penalty
§ 10.001 CODE DESIGNATION
   All ordinances contained within this and the following chapters that are of
a general and permanent nature and as revised, codified, rearranged,
renumbered, and consolidated here shall be known and designated as “The Code of
the City of Morgantown, Kentucky”, and may be cited as such. This codification
may also be known as “codified ordinances”, the “code” or Morgantown Code”.
Code titles, chapters, and section headings or catchlines shall not be
construed as any part of the law contained herein.
§ 10.002 DEFINITIONS
   In the construction of this code and for purposes of this code, the
following definitions shall apply, unless inconsistent with the text or unless
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   “ACTION.” Includes all proceedings in any court in the Commonwealth. (KRS
446.010(1))
   “AND” or “OR.” The word “and” may be read as “or” and “or” may be read as
“and”, where the context requires it.
   “ARTICLE.” A division of a chapter, designated in this code by setting apart
a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading. Not all
chapters have articles.
   “AVIS.” The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information
on vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010(55))
   “CERTIFIED MAIL.” Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
      (1)   Sending the document or package;
      (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
      (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010(8))
   “CITY” or “MUNICIPALITY.” When used in this code, the City of Morgantown,
located in Butler County, Kentucky except as otherwise provided.
   “COMPANY.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(9))
   “CORPORATION.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association. (KRS 446.010(10))
   “COUNCIL” or “CITY COUNCIL.” The city legislative body of Morgantown,
Kentucky. (KRS 83A.010(5))
   “COUNTY.” Butler County, Kentucky.
   “DIRECTORS.” When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   “DOMESTIC.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky. (KRS 446.010(14))
   “EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.” The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   “EXECUTIVE ORDER.” An order issued by the Mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(7))
   “FEDERAL.” The United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   “KRS.” The Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   “LAND” or “REAL ESTATE.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and
all rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY.” The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.” A City Councilmember. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   “MAY.” The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   “MISDEMEANOR.” An offense for which the criminal fine cannot exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both. (KRS 83A.065)
   “MONTH.” Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   “MUNICIPAL ORDER.” An official act of the City Council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which
the municipality has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(9))
   “OATH.” Includes “AFFIRMATION” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(28))
   “OFFICER.” Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
      (1)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
      (2)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
      (3)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly
or by implication by the city;
      (4)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than the law;
      (5)   Has some permanency;
      (6)   Requires an official oath;
      (7)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
      (8)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority.
(KRS 83A.010(10))
   “ORDINANCE.” An official act of the City Council, which is a regulation of a
general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or is an
appropriation of money. (KRS 83A.010(11))
   “PARTNERSHIP.” Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   “PEACE OFFICER.” Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests. (KRS 446.010(31))
   “PERSON.” Includes bodies-politic and corporate, societies, communities, the
public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint stock companies, and limited
liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   “PERSONAL PROPERTY.” Includes all property except real property.
   “PREMISES.” As applied to real property, includes land and buildings and all
appurtenances thereto.
   “PROPERTY.” Includes real, personal and other property.
   “PUBLIC AUTHORITY.” Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   “PUBLIC PLACE.” Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   “REAL PROPERTY.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   “REGISTERED MAIL.” Any governmental, commercial, or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have:
      (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location
to be tracked;
      (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
      (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available
to the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   “REGULAR ELECTION.” The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years in which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010(37))
   “RESOLUTION.” An expression of the opinion, will or policy of the
legislative body on some matter of ministerial business which has come before
the body. (While an ordinance, and to a large extent a municipal order,
involves a distinctly legislative act, a resolution is a less formal mechanism
for dealing with matters of a special or temporary character.)
   “SHALL.” The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   “STATE.” The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   “STREET.” Includes avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts, bridges and the approaches to them and all other public thoroughfares
within the city. It shall be construed to include a sidewalk or path, unless
the sidewalk or path is so excluded, or unless such construction is
inconsistent with the intent of the City Council.
   “SWORN.” Includes “AFFIRMED” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   “TENANT” or “OCCUPANT.” As applied to premises, includes any person holding
a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, along or with others.
   “VACANCY IN OFFICE.” Such as exists wherein there is an unexpired part of a
term of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected
or appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   “VIOLATE.” Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   “VIOLATION.” An offense for which the criminal fine cannot exceed the amount
set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c). (KRS 83A.065)
   “YEAR.” Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.003 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
   (A)   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   (B)   Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only may extend and be
applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Singular/Plural. A word importing the singular number only may extend
and be applied to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing,
and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be applied to one
person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Terms/Technical Terms. All words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and
phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in the law, shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
   (F)   Officers/Agents of City. All officers, agents, employees and other
persons, together with all things and places referred to in this code, unless a
different intention appears, shall be construed to mean the officers, agents,
employees and other persons, things and places situated in the city or employed
by or pertaining to the city.
   (G)   Acts Prohibited. All acts prohibited or punishable under this code or
under any particular ordinance codified here, unless otherwise indicated, shall
be construed to refer to those acts when committed or occurring within the city
limits or in other places over which the city police may have jurisdiction or
authority by state law.
   (H)   Computation of Time. 
      (1)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable statute or regulation, the day of the act, event or
default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven (7) days intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall
be excluded in the computation.
      (2)   When a statute, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before the day on which an event occurs, the day of
the event shall be excluded in computing the time. If the day thereby computed
on which or by which the act is required to be done falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the public office in which the act is
required to be completed is actually and legally closed, the act may be done on
the next day which is none of the days just mentioned.
      (3)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
§ 10.004 SIGNATURES AND WRITINGS
   (A)   Any writing required to be signed under this code shall only be deemed
to be signed when a signature is subscribed at the end or closing of the
writing.
   (B)   Any writing required under the provisions of the code shall include
printings or any other mode of representing words and letters so long as the
language used in the writing is English.
§ 10.005 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional, the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.006 RIGHTS OR LIABILITY ACCRUED BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings hereafter shall conform, so far as
practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the part affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.007 ORDINANCES AFFECTED BY CODIFICATION
   (A)   From and after its adoption by City Council and its effective date,
this code shall contain all provisions of a general and permanent nature
pertaining to the titles and subjects included herein. All prior ordinances or
codes pertaining to the titles or subjects contained herein shall be deemed
repealed.
   (B)   All standard codes, rules, and regulations and other subject matter
adopted by ordinance and herein incorporated by reference, together with any
amendments as made from time to time, and future incorporations by reference
shall be construed to have full force and effect as if set out herein; and a
copy of such codes, rules, and regulations shall be kept on file in the office
of the City Clerk, unless otherwise indicated.
   (C)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and any other
ordinances not pertaining to titles and subjects included in this code shall
remain in full force and effect unless repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (D)   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer, employee, or agent to make additional
ordinances, rules, or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of
the ordinance; all ordinances, rules, and regulations of a similar nature
serving the same purpose, effected prior to the adoption of this code and not
inconsistent with this code, shall remain in effect.
§ 10.008 CONFLICTING SECTIONS OR PROVISIONS
   If any of the provisions, codes, chapters, articles, divisions, or sections
of this code conflict with or contradict another provision, code, chapter,
article, division, or section; the provisions with the latest date of enactment
or adoption shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same date of
enactment or adoption, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent
with the meaning or legal effect of the subject matter when taken as a whole.
§ 10.009 OMISSIONS OR ERRORS
   If an error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word or
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intent of the
provisions, or the use of a word for which a meaning within the intent of the
provision cannot be defined, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended, the error shall be corrected by substituting a
correct spelling of the word or words, or adding the omitted word or words, or
deleting the word or words found to be in error to conform with the original
intent of the provision. The provision shall have the same force and effect as
though the correct words were originally contained within the text of this
code. No alteration shall be made if any question exists regarding the nature
or extent of the error.
§ 10.010 HISTORICAL REFERENCES
   (A)   All reference information contained within this code is intended for
the use of the reader; however, it shall not be construed to be a part of any
ordinance or amendment to any ordinance codified here.
   (B)   All amendments to ordinances from and after the adoption of the
ordinance are listed following previous ordinance information as an amendment
to that ordinance. (Example: Ord. 5-89, passed 2-21-89; Am. Ord. 6-90, passed
3-1-90.)
   (C)   If a cite to the Kentucky Revised Statutes is included in the history
of a provision or section, this indicates that the text of the section reads
word-for-word from the statutes. (Example: KRS 446.010). If a cite from the
Kentucky Revised Statutes is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that additional information may be found
within the referenced section of the statutes.
   (D)   Cross references which are found at the end of any provision or
section refer to another section of the code where additional information about
a particular subject may be found.
   (E)   Where additional information of some nature is required or provided
that cannot otherwise be explained or corrected, or when a question of
completeness or correction has arisen in the publication of this code that
cannot otherwise be completed or corrected before publication of this code; a
footnote, numbered and set out at the end of the page, shall provide
explanation of the additional information, correction, or question.
   (F)   Sections with no historical reference or data indicate that the
section is originally enacted by the adoption of this code.
§ 10.011 TITLES, ARTICLES, DIVISIONS, AND SECTION HEADINGS
   The catchlines or headings of all chapters, articles, divisions,
subchapters, or sections, or other provisions of this code printed in
italicized type, bold type, or which are capitalized are intended as words to
indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be deemed to be titles of
the sections, nor a part of the sections, unless so provided by the ordinance
from which the sections were derived.
§ 10.012 REFERENCES TO CODE
   All references to chapters, articles, divisions, subchapters, or sections
contained within the provisions of this code are to the chapters, articles,
divisions, subchapters, or sections of this code, unless otherwise specified.
§ 10.013 CITY SEAL
   The seal, an imprint of which is endorsed hereon, shall be the official seal
of the city of Morgantown, Kentucky.
(Ord. dated December 7, 1940)
§ 10.014 RIGHT OF ENTRY BY CITY EMPLOYEES
   (A)   Authority of city officials to enter. Whenever any officer or employee
of the city is authorized to enter any building or premises for the purpose of
making an inspection to enforce any ordinance, he may enter such building or
premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same; provided that he shall
effect entry in the manner provided in (B) of this section, except in emergency
situations or when consent of the person having charge or control of such
building or premises has been otherwise obtained.
   (B)   Conditions. If the building or premises to be inspected is occupied,
the authorized officer or employee shall first present proper credentials and
demand entry, and if such building or premises is unoccupied, he shall first
make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or
control of the building or premises and demand entry. If consent to such entry
is not given, the authorized officer or employee shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure entry.
   (C)   Applicability; provisions of section shall be controlling. This
section shall be controlling over any other ordinance or part of an ordinance
on the same subject, whether heretofore or hereafter adopted, unless such
ordinance or part of an ordinance provides differently by an express reference
to this section.
   (D)   Failure to comply. Notwithstanding any other ordinance of the city,
whether heretofore or hereafter adopted, it shall not be a violation of this
section to refuse or fail to consent to an entry for inspection.
(Ord. 92-10 § 1, § 2 and § 3 (part), 1992)
§ 10.999 GENERAL PENALTY
   When any person, firm, or corporation is convicted of a violation of any
provision of this code and no penalty is otherwise provided, the person, firm
or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined an
amount not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
________________
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of city ordinances, see KRS 83A.065
TITLE 2: GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION/ADMINISTRATION
   
CHAPTER 20   ELECTED OFFICIALS
   
CHAPTER 21   NON-ELECTED OFFICIALS
   
CHAPTER 22   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
   
CHAPTER 23   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
   
CHAPTER 24   PUBLIC RECORDS
   
CHAPTER 25   PUBLIC MEETINGS
   
CHAPTER 26   ETHICS CODE
   
CHAPTER 27   TAXATION
   
CHAPTER 28   HUMAN RESOURCES
CHAPTER 20: ELECTED OFFICIALS
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
20.001   Organization
   
20.002   Non-partisan election authorized
   
20.003   Oath
   
20.004   Bond
   
20.005   Compensation
   
20.006   Continuity of government
ARTICLE II.   MAYOR
   
20.100   Election
   
20.101   Term
   
20.102   Qualifications
   
20.103   Vacancy
   
20.104   Resignation
   
20.105   Powers; duties
   
20.106   Delegation of authority
   
20.107   Compensation
   
20.108   Use of city automobile
   
20.109   Line of succession
ARTICLE III.   CITY COUNCIL
   
20.200   Election
   
20.201   Term
   
20.202   Qualifications
   
20.203   Vacancies
   
20.204   Resignation
   
20.205   Quorum
   
20.206   Removal
   
20.207   Immunity
   
20.208   Meetings
   
20.209   Duties
   
20.210   Ordinances
   
20.211   Compensation
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 20.001 ORGANIZATION
   (A)   The government of the city shall be administered in the manner
prescribed by KRS Chapter 83A, other applicable provisions of the Constitution
and statutes, and the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.020, the city is governed by the Mayor-Council
form of government as set forth in KRS 83A.130.
   (C)   The government shall be composed of an elected executive who shall be
called the Mayor and an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and of such other officers and employees as may be provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
   (D)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six (6) members
nor more than twelve (12) members as prescribed by ordinance. An ordinance
amending the number of legislative body members shall be:
      (1)   Enacted and filed with the county clerk of any county or counties
in which the city is located by no later than the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the
legislative offices will appear on the ballot; and
      (2)   Crafted in such a manner that the amended number of legislative
body members becomes effective on January 1 of the year following the election
of the number of legislative body members specified in the amending ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030, 83A.130)
_________________
Statutory reference:
   Organization structure, see KRS 83A.020
   Legislative body size, see KRS 83A.030
§ 20.002 NON-PARTISAN ELECTION AUTHORIZED
   (A)   Election of city officers shall be governed by the provisions of KRS
Chapters 116 to 121, except as provided in this chapter.
(KRS 83A.043)
   (B)   A candidate for party nomination to city office shall file his or her
nomination papers with the County Clerk of the county not earlier than the
first Wednesday after the first Monday in November of the year preceding the
year in which the office will appear on the ballot and not later than the last
Tuesday in January before the day fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding a
primary election for the office sought. Signatures for nomination papers shall
not be affixed on the document to be filed prior to the first Wednesday after
the first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the office
will appear on the ballot. All nomination papers shall be filed no later than
4:00 p.m. local time when filed on the last day on which the papers are
permitted to be filed;
(KRS 83A.045(A))
   (C)   An independent candidate for nomination to city office shall not
participate in a primary, but shall file his or her nomination papers with the
county clerk of the county not earlier than the first Wednesday after the first
Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the office will
appear on the ballot and not later than the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in June before the day fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding a regular
election for the office. Signatures for nomination papers shall not be affixed
on the document to be filed prior to the first Wednesday after the first Monday
in November of the year preceding the year in which the office will appear on
the ballot. All nomination papers shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m. local
time when filed on the last day on which the papers are permitted to be filed;
and
(KRS 83A.045(B))
   (D)   A candidate for city office who is defeated in a partisan primary
election shall be ineligible as a candidate for the same office in the regular
election. However, if a vacancy occurs in the party nomination for which he or
she was an unsuccessful candidate in the primary, his or her name may be placed
on the ballot for the regular election as a candidate of that party if he or
she has been duly made the party nominee after the vacancy occurs, as provided
in KRS 118.105.
(KRS 83A.045(C))
§ 20.003 OATH
   (A)   Oath. No official of the city shall enter upon the discharge of his
duties of office, without first having taken the following oath: "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and of the Constitution of the United States, and be
faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a
citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability,
the office of ________, according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God".
   (B)   Certification of oath. The person administering an oath of office to
an elected officer shall certify, in writing, that the oath of office was
administered, and the date of its administration. The said written
certification shall be filed in accordance with the mandates of KRS Chapter 62.
§ 20.004 BOND
   (A)   All officers, officials, and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments, and special districts who
handle public funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and
sufficient bond to the local governing body for the faithful and honest
performance of his or her duties and as security for all money coming into that
person's hands or under that person's control. The bond amount shall be based
upon the maximum amount of public funds the officer, official, or employee
handles at any given time during a fiscal year cycle. The local governing body
shall pay the cost of the bond.
   (B)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with subsection (A) of this section.
§ 20.005 COMPENSATION
   (A)   City Council shall by ordinance fix the compensation of every elected
city officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year the officer is
elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
(KRS 83A.070)
   (B)   Equating compensation with purchasing power of dollar:
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayor and members of the
City Council with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local
Government shall compute by the second Friday in February of every year the
annual increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year
by using 1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of
Kentucky which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be
paid at a rate no greater than twelve thousand ($12,000.00) dollars per annum
and the Mayor in cities other than the first class and legislative body members
shall be paid at a rate no greater than seven thousand two hundred ($7,200.00)
dollars per annum.
      (2)   The City Council of the city shall set the compensation of the
officer in accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that
stipulated by the Department for Local Government.
§ 20.006 CONTINUITY OF GOVERNMENT
   (A)   When the absence or disability of the Mayor shall prevent his or her
serving in the office during a national, state or local emergency, the duties
and responsibilities of the Mayor shall be administered temporarily by Deputy
Mayor as set forth in KRS 83A.040.
   (B)   If neither the Mayor nor Deputy Mayor is able to serve in the Office
of Mayor by reason of absence or disability, then the duties of the Office of
Mayor shall be assumed temporarily by a member of the City Council as set forth
in KRS 83A.040.
(Ord. 2007-03, passed 5-10-07)
ARTICLE II. MAYOR
§ 20.100 ELECTION
   The Mayor shall be elected at a regular election. A candidate for Mayor
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election.
(KRS 83A.040)
§ 20.101 TERM
   The term of office of the Mayor shall begin on the first day of January
following his or her election and shall be for four (4) years and until his or
her successor qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in
response to a vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then that
period of service shall not be considered for purposes of re-election a term of
office.
(KRS 83A.040)
§ 20.102 QUALIFICATIONS
   The Mayor shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040)
§ 20.103 VACANCY
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the following provisions shall
apply:
   (A)   The City Council shall fill the vacancy within thirty (30) days;
   (B)   A Councilmember may not vote for himself to fill the position of
Mayor;
   (C)   When voting to fill the vacancy created by a resignation of a Mayor,
the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his successor; and
   (D)   The City Council shall elect, from among its members, an individual to
preside over meetings of the Council during any vacancy in the office of Mayor,
in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
   (E)   If, for any reason, the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for sixty (60) consecutive days, the office of the Mayor may be
declared vacant by a majority vote of the City Council.
   (F)   If, for any reason, a vacancy in the office of Mayor is not filled
within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill the
vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040, 83A.130)
§ 20.104 RESIGNATION
   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of Mayor shall
occur unless a written resignation which specifies a resignation date is
tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official's electronic mail address
and includes also the official's handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council
occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed
to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the legislative
body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
§ 20.105 POWERS; DUTIES
   The Mayor shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council plan, city ordinances and
orders, and all applicable statutes.
   (B)   The Mayor shall supervise all departments of city government and the
conduct of all city officers and employees under his jurisdiction and shall
require each department to make reports to him required by ordinance or as he
deems desirable.
   (C)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
   (D)   The Mayor shall report to the City Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendation for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
   (E)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statute or ordinance. Upon promulgation or upon revision or
rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (F)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the City Council. The Mayor may
participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a vote, except that he
may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
   (G)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city shall
be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive order.
   (H)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint and
remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract, and
except for employees of the City Council.
   (I)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the functions
of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties of his
office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed in
accordance with § 20.106, provided that the Mayor shall not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council and that approving
ordinances or promulgating administrative procedures may only be delegated to
an elected officer. With approval of the City Council, the Mayor may rescind
any action taken in his absence under this subsection within thirty (30) days
of such action. If, for any reason, the disability of the Mayor to attend to
his duties persists for sixty (60) consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be
declared vacant by a majority vote of the City Council and the provisions of
KRS 83A.040 shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 20.106 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
   Any delegation of the Mayor’s powers, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by year and shall be kept in a permanent
file.
(KRS 83A.130)
§ 20.107 COMPENSATION
   The City Council desires to amend the salary for the Mayor position to
thirty-six thousand ($36,000) annually, pursuant to KRS 83A.070, and effective
beginning with the next Mayor election in the year 2014 or thereafter. No
adjustment for increases in the Consumer Price Index shall be allowed.
(Ord. 88-01 §1, 1988; Am. Ord. 94-03, 1994; Am. Ord. 2014-04, passed 4-24-14)
§ 20.108 USE OF CITY AUTOMOBILE
   The automobile owned by the city and used exclusively by the Mayor is hereby
declared to be the Mayor's exclusive automobile, and he can go any place he so
desires in the automobile and carry any person or persons therein. The
operation of the automobile shall be at the expense of the city except during
the period of the Mayor's vacation. He may use the automobile for vacation
purposes, but he shall pay to the city the sum of twenty-six cents ($.26) per
mile for each mile driven for vacation purposes.
(Ord. 94-06, passed 6-9-94)
§ 20.109 LINE OF SUCCESSION
   (A)   When the absence or disability of the Mayor shall prevent his or her
serving in the office during a national, state or local emergency, the duties
and responsibilities of the Mayor shall be administered temporarily by Deputy
Mayor as set forth in KRS 83A.040.
   (B)   If neither the Mayor nor Deputy Mayor is able to serve in the Office
of Mayor by reason of absence or disability, then the duties of the Office of
Mayor shall be assumed temporarily by a member of the City Council as set forth
in KRS 83A.040.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-9-11; Am. Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-14-13; Am. Ord. 2015-
01, passed 2-12-15)
ARTICLE III. CITY COUNCIL
§ 20.200 ELECTION
   Each City Councilmember shall be elected at-large at a regular election. A
candidate for Councilmember shall be a resident of the city for not less than
one year prior to his or her election.
(KRS 83A.040)
§ 20.201 TERM
   The term of office for a Councilmember shall begin on the first day of
January following his or her election and shall be for two (2) years, except as
provided by KRS 83A.050.
(KRS 83A.040)
§ 20.202 QUALIFICATIONS
   A Councilmember shall be at least eighteen (18) years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040)
§ 20.203 VACANCIES
   (A)   If one (1) or more vacancies on the City Council occur in a way that
one (1) or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall, within
thirty (30) days, fill the vacancies one (1) at a time, giving each new
appointee reasonable notice of his or her selection as will enable him or her
to meet and act with the remaining members in making further appointments until
all vacancies are filled.
   (B)   If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies shall be filled as provided in subsection (A).
   (C)   If, for any reason, a vacancy in the office of Councilmember is not
filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly
fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the
same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040)
§ 20.204 RESIGNATION
   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Councilmember shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official's
electronic mail address and includes also the official's handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the City Council occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter
of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
§ 20.205 QUORUM
   A majority of the City Council shall constitute a quorum and a vote of a
majority of a quorum shall be sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060)
§ 20.206 REMOVAL
   (A)   Any elected officer, in case of misconduct, incapacity, or willful
neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her office, may be removed
from office by a unanimous vote of the City Council, exclusive of any member to
be removed who shall not vote in the deliberation of his or her removal.
   (B)   No elected officer shall be removed without having been given the
right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, shall have the right
to appeal to the Butler Circuit Court, and the appeal shall be on the record.
   (C)   No officer so removed shall be eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which he was originally elected.
(KRS 83A.040)
§ 20.207 IMMUNITY
   For anything said in debate, City Councilmembers shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
§ 20.208 MEETINGS
   (A)   The City Council shall hold regular meetings once a month and the
meetings shall be held on the second Thursday of each month at 5:00 p.m.
Central Standard Time.
   (B)   The place of the meeting shall be in the Eva J. Hawes Agriculture
Exposition and Community Center.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called at any time by the Mayor or by a
majority of the Council by a written notice delivered at least twenty-four (24)
hours before the time specified for the proposed meeting.
   (D)   At any meeting of the City Council a majority of the members shall
constitute a quorum, but a lesser number may adjourn from time to time and may
compel the attendance of absent members.
   (E)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council and may
vote in case of a tie.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall meet with the City Council. If the City Clerk is
absent, the Mayor shall appoint one (1) of the members of the City Council as
Clerk pro tem.
   (G)   The Chief of Police, or a member of the Police Department appointed by
him, shall be present at each meeting.
   (H)   All meetings of the City Council shall be held within the city limits
and shall be public meetings.
(Ord. 65-3, 1965; Am. Ord. 92-09, 1992; Am. Ord. 93-05, passed 6-3-93; Am. Ord.
94-10, passed 8-27-94; Am. Ord. 2011-02, passed 4-14-11; Am. Ord. 2021-05,
passed 7-8-21)
§ 20.209 DUTIES
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the City Council. The Council shall not perform any executive functions
except those functions assigned to it by statute.
   (B)   The City Council shall, by ordinance, establish all appointive offices
and the duties and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and
regulations for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   The City Council shall, by ordinance, provide for sufficient revenue
to operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a
budget which shall provide for the orderly management of city resources.
   (D)   The City Council shall have the right to investigate all activities of
city government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding his performance of his
official duties. Any statement required by the City Council to be submitted or
any investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or
agency under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted
or undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given
to the Mayor. The Mayor shall have the right to review any statement before
submission to the City Council and to appear personally or through his designee
on behalf of any department, office, or agency in the course of any
investigation.
(KRS 83A.130)
§ 20.210 ORDINANCES
   (A)   Title. Each ordinance shall embrace only one (1) subject and shall
have a title that shall clearly state the subject.
   (B)   Enacting clause. Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and
shall have an enacting clause styled, “Be it ordained by the City of
Morgantown”.
   (C)   Amendments. No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title
only, and an ordinance to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or
section indicating any words being added by a single solid line drawn
underneath them, and any words being deleted by a single broken line drawn
through them.
   (D)   Reading. Except as provided in subsection (F) of this section, no
ordinance shall be enacted until it has been read on two (2) separate days. The
reading of an ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a
summary rather than the full text.
   (E)   Adoption by reference. The City Council may adopt the provisions of
any local, statewide, or nationally recognized standard code and codifications
of entire bodies of local legislation by an ordinance that identifies the
subject matter by title, source and date, and incorporates the adopted
provisions by reference without setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies
the adopting ordinance and is made a part of the permanent records of the city.
   (F)   Emergency. In an emergency, upon the affirmation vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of the membership, the City Council may suspend the requirements of
second reading and publication to provide for an ordinance to become effective
by naming and describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication
requirements of subsection (H) of this section shall be complied with within
ten (10) days of the enactment of the emergency ordinance.
   (G)   Permanent record. Every action of the City Council shall be made a
part of the permanent records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the
vote of each member of the City Council shall be entered on the official record
of each meeting. All ordinances adopted in the city shall, at the end of each
month, be indexed and maintained in the following manner:
      (1)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
      (2)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and indexed in a composite index or
maintained in a code of ordinances.
      (3)   At least once every five (5) years, the city shall cause all
ordinances in the composite index or code of ordinances to be examined for
consistency with state law and with one another, and to be revised to eliminate
redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid provisions.
   (H)   Publication.
      (1)   No ordinance shall be effective until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
      (2)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by
the City Council. If the Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary, the
summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to practice law
in the Commonwealth and shall include the following:
         (a)   The title of the ordinance;
         (b)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance
in a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and
understandable manner the meaning of the ordinance; and
         (c)   The full text of each section that imposes fines, penalties,
forfeitures, taxes, or fees.
      (3)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
   (I)   Signature or veto by Mayor. All ordinances adopted by the City Council
shall be submitted to the Mayor who shall, within ten (10) days after
submission, either approve the ordinance by affixing his signature or
disapprove it by returning it to the Council together with a statement of his
objections. No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless
he fails to return it to the Council within ten (10) days after receiving it or
unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon reconsideration of
the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its return,
by the affirmative vote of one (1) more than a majority of the membership.
   (J)   Municipal orders.
      (1)   The City Council may adopt municipal orders. Orders shall be in
writing and may be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
      (2)   A municipal order may be used for matters relating to the internal
operation and functions of the city and to appoint or remove or approve
appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and other agencies
over which the city has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
   (K)   Proof. All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the
signature of the City Clerk; and when the ordinance is placed in a printed
composite index or code of ordinances by authority of the city, the printed
copy shall be received in evidence by any state court without further proof of
the ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(14))
§ 20.211 COMPENSATION
   Council members shall be compensated in the monthly sum of $416.67 effective
upon election in the year 2014 or thereafter. No adjustment for increases in
the Consumer Price Index shall be allowed.
(Am. Ord. 94-04, passed 4-11-94; Am. Ord. 2012-006, passed 4-27-12; Am. Ord.
2014-05, passed 4-24-14)
CHAPTER 21: NON-ELECTED OFFICIALS
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
21.001   Oath
   
21.002   Bond; compensation
ARTICLE II.   CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER/CITY CLERK
   
21.200   Office established
   
21.201   Bond
   
21.202   Powers and duties of office
   
21.203   Terms of office
   
21.204   Compensation
ARTICLE III.   CITY ATTORNEY
   
21.300   Position; restrictions on outside employment
   
21.301   Qualifications
   
21.302   Duties
   
21.303   Other representational duties
   
21.304   Bond
   
21.305   Oath
   
21.306   Compensation
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 21.001 OATH
   (A)   Oath. No official of the city shall enter upon the discharge of his
duties of office, without first having taken the following oath: “I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
this Commonwealth, and of the Constitution of the United States, and be
faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue a
citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability,
the office of ______ according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being a citizen
of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God”.
   (B)   Certification of oath. The person administering an oath of office to
an elected officer shall certify, in writing, that the oath of office was
administered, and the date of its administration. The said written
certification shall be filed in accordance with the mandates of KRS Chapter 62.
§ 21.002 BOND; COMPENSATION
   (A)   All officers, officials, and employees of the city who handle public
funds in the execution of their duties shall give good and sufficient bond to
the city for the faithful and honest performance of their duties and as
security for all money coming into that person's hands or under that person's
control. The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum amount of public funds
the officer, official, or employee handles at any given time during the fiscal
year cycle. The city shall pay the cost of the bond.
   (B)   The city may purchase a blanket or umbrella bond covering all
officers, officials, and employees of the city required to be bonded by subpart
(A) of this section.
_________________
Statutory reference:
   Bond requirements, see KRS 65.067
   (C)   Officers of the city shall be compensated for the performance of their
duties in such amounts as determined from time to time by City Council by
ordinance.
_________________
Cross reference:
   Compensation of elected officers, see §
20.005
ARTICLE II. CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER/CITY CLERK
§ 21.200 OFFICE ESTABLISHED
   There is established the non-elected office of City Administrative Officer/
City Clerk.
(Ord. 84-1, 1984; Am. Ord. 2015-12, passed 9-4-15)
§ 21.201 BOND
   Prior to assuming the duties of the office of the City Administrative
Officer/City Clerk, a bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with
a corporate surety shall be executed, the expenses of said surety being borne
by the city.
(Ord. 84-1, 1984; Am. Ord. 2015-12, passed 9-4-15)
§ 21.202 POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICE
   The duties and responsibilities of the City Administrative/City Clerk shall
include, but are not limited to, the following (see KRS 83A.080):
   (A)   Advise the executive authority of the city in policy formulation on
overall problems of the city;
   (B)   Have major responsibility for preparation and administration of
operating and capital improvement budgets under the direction of the executive
authority;
   (C)   Advise the executive authority of the city in the appointment of
subordinate administrative personnel if not delegated appointment authority by
appropriate order; and
   (D)   Having continuing direct relationships with operating department heads
on implementation and administration of programs and policy;
   (E)   The City Administrative Officer/City Clerk is required to carry out
all additional duties lawfully delegated by an executive order and has the same
powers as the executive authority in carrying out these duties;
   (F)   The City Administrative Officer/City Clerk shall also: assist the
Mayor in planning, organizing, supervising, coordinating and evaluating all
activities and functions of the city; supervise all personnel assigned to the
Administrative Department; supervise and/or perform research activities and
provide advice to the executive authority regarding policy formulation and city
problems; provide support for all boards, commissions, and committees
established by the city; assists department directors with program
implementation and administration; keep executive authority advised of
financial condition of the city; assist Mayor and department directors in
preparation of and administration of city operating and capital improvements
budgets; represents city capital improvements budgets; represents city
executive and/or legislative personnel at meeting and public functions; works
with City Attorney and other representative of the legal professional in
dealing with all legal issues confronting the city; attends all Council
meetings; prepares and delivers oral and written reports as requested; insure
that accurate records are prepared and maintained; review citizens’ complaints
and/or inquiries and provide follow-up action where necessary; maintains
liaison with various federal, state, and local agencies, including the news
media; serves as personnel advisor to the Mayor; recommends personnel actions,
including employment, promotions, salary increases, suspensions, dismissal,
etc.; insures that accurate personnel files and payroll records are maintained;
assist in preparation of requests for funding from state and federal agencies
and insures that these funded programs/projects are administered properly;
oversees bidding and procurement activities to assure that proper guidelines
are administered;
   (G)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
   (H)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian”
pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882;
   (I)   Possession of the seal of the city, if used;
   (J)   Performance of all duties and responsibilities required of the City
Clerk by statute or ordinance;
   (K)   Keeping a true, full record of all the proceedings of City Council;
   (L)   Maintaining the financial books, records, and accounts of the city,
including the property tax records, the collection of taxes, the payments of
city expenses and the deposits of city funds into authorized financial
institutions;
   (M)   Such other duties as the Mayor requires.
(Ord. 84-1, 1984; Am. Ord. 2015-12, passed 9-4-15)
_________________
Statutory reference:
   Duties of City Clerk, see KRS 83A.085
§ 21.203 TERMS OF OFFICE
   The City Administrative Officer/City Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor,
with the approval of the City Council. The City Administrative Officer/City
Clerk may be removed by the Mayor at-will. Prior to assuming the duties of the
office of City Administrative Officer/City Clerk shall take an oath of office,
pursuant to § 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 84-1, 1984; Am. Ord. 2015-12, passed 9-4-15)
§ 21.204 COMPENSATION
   The City Administrative Officer/City Clerk shall be paid an amount of $15.73
per hourly rate. The salary may be altered or increased by the City Council by
amending this article. Salary increases shall follow the compensation plan set
out by the city. In establishing or altering the salary, the City Council may
consider the duties performed by the City Administrative Officer/City Clerk,
the quality of past job performance, the subject’s experience and ability to
carry out tasks as designated.
(Ord. 84-1, 1984; Am. Ord. 87-05, 1987; Am. Ord. 88-02, 1988; Am. Ord. 88-08,
1988; Am. Ord. 89-03, 1989; Am. Ord. 90-04, 1990; Am. Ord. 2005-02, 2005; Am.
Ord. 2015-12, passed 9- 4-15)
ARTICLE III. CITY ATTORNEY
§ 21.300 POSITION; RESTRICTIONS ON OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT
   The position of City Attorney shall be part-time employment and shall carry
no restrictions on outside employment beyond those of the profession relating
to conflicts of interest.
(Ord. 92-02; Am. Ord. 92-04 § 1, 1992)
§ 21.301 QUALIFICATIONS
   Any applicant must be an attorney licensed to practice law in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and must have practiced in the state for at least five
(5) years.
(Ord. 92-02; Am. Ord. 92-04 § 2, 1992)
§ 21.302 DUTIES
   (A)   The City Attorney shall, for a set monthly fee:
      (1)   Attend all Council meetings;
      (2)   Prosecute all zoning and "blighted property" violations;
      (3)   Advise the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of
Adjustments when requested by either;
      (4)   Research and advise all city officials exparte as to miscellaneous
questions of law;
      (5)   Provide written monthly summaries of the above activities and
written opinions when requested by the person seeking advice.
   (B)   The City Attorney shall also, for additional hourly or flat rate fees:
      (1)   Provide extended research and reports on questions of law when
requested by the Mayor or City Council;
      (2)   Defend city, city officials and employees in actions concerning
their official positions;
      (3)   Prepare deeds, title opinions and all other documents required for
the business of the city.
(Ord. 92-02; Am. Ord. 92-04 §§ 3, 4, 8, 1992; Am. Ord. 95-04, passed 6-14-95)
§ 21.303 OTHER REPRESENTATIONAL DUTIES
   The City Attorney shall not be precluded, by virtue of his appointment, from
representing any corporation, authority, board or commission which is
associated with the city. Furthermore, the City Attorney shall not be presumed
to be counsel for any such corporation, authority, board or commission, which
entities shall be free to employ counsel of their choice.
(Ord. 92-02; Am. Ord. 92-04 § 5, 1992)
§ 21.304 BOND
   The City Attorney shall not be authorized to accept, negotiate, deposit or
disburse any funds except as an incident to litigation and, therefore, no bond
shall be required.
(Ord. 92-02; Am. Ord. 92-04 § 6, 1992)
§ 21.305 OATH
   No oath shall be required in addition to his standing before the Supreme
Court of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 92-02; Am. Ord. 92-04 § 7, 1992)
§ 21.306 COMPENSATION
   The City Attorney shall be compensated by a monthly fee of four hundred
dollars($400.00) for which he will perform his duties under §
21.302(A). Additional services under §
21.302(B) shall be paid at rates not more than those fees normally charged to
the public at large and in no event shall exceed sixty dollars ($60.00) per
hour, all of which must be invoiced on itemized statements.
(Ord. 92-02; Am. Ord. 92-04 §§ 3, 4, 8, 1992; Am. Ord. 95-04, passed 6-14-95)
CHAPTER 22: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE I.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
Division 1.   General Provisions
   
22.001   Established
   
22.002   Personnel
   
22.003   Enforcement authority
Division 2.   Law Enforcement Foundation Program
   
22.020   Election to participate
   
22.021   Compensation; hours
   
22.022   Educational requirement
   
22.023   Continuing education; compensation during; alternate requirements
   
22.024   Incentive not to affect benefits or pay
   
22.025   Police department to continue functions
   
22.026   Reports required; regulation compliance
   
22.027   Special account required; use of funds
   
22.028   Records required
ARTICLE II.   UTILITY COMMISSION
   
22.100   Created; membership
   
22.101   Terms; appointment; removal
   
22.102   Bonds required
   
22.103   Quorum; appointment of officers
   
22.104   Compensation
   
22.105   Control of the Commission
ARTICLE III.   DISASTER AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE ORGANIZATION
   
22.300   Created; powers
   
22.301   Director; appointment and duties
   
22.302   Shared functions and responsibilities
   
22.303   Unauthorized representation prohibited
   
22.304   Mutual aid arrangements
ARTICLE IV.   TOURISM COMMISSION
   
22.400   Establishment
   
22.401   Membership and terms
   
22.402   Officers and employees
   
22.403   Audits
ARTICLE V.   VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
   
22.500   Guideline
   
22.501   Amending guideline
ARTICLE VI.   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
   
22.600   Definitions
   
22.601   Creation and membership
   
22.602   Enforcement powers
   
22.603   Appointment of members; term of office; removal from office; oath;
compensation
   
22.604   Organization of board; meetings; quorum
   
22.605   Conflict of interest
   
22.606   Powers of the code enforcement board
   
22.607   Enforcement proceedings
   
22.608   Hearing; notice; and final order
   
22.609   Presentation of cases
   
22.610   Appeals; final judgment
   
22.611   Ordinance fines
   
22.612   Lien; fines, charges and fees
   
22.613   Lienholder notification system
   
22.614   Liens
   
22.615   Immediate action
_________________
Cross reference:
   Property Review Commission, see §
70.203
ARTICLE I. POLICE DEPARTMENT
Division 1. General Provisions
§ 22.001 ESTABLISHED
   A city Police Department is established by and for the city.
(Ord. 64-5 (part), 1964)
§ 22.002 PERSONNEL
   The Police Department shall have personnel as determined by the Mayor and
Council.
(Ord. 64-5 (part), 1964)
§ 22.003 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY
   The Police Department is authorized to enforce all ordinances, statutes and
laws for the city, county, state and federal governments and collect all
delinquent taxes, parking meter monies, and attend court and council meetings
and all other duties as set out by ordinances and/or statutes.
(Ord. 64-5 (part), 1964; Amended during 1993 codification)
Division 2. Law Enforcement Foundation Program
§ 22.020 ELECTION TO PARTICIPATE
   The city declares its intention to continue to participate in the Law
Enforcement Foundation Program established by KRS 15.410 through 15.510.
(Ord. 75-1 § 1, 1975)
§ 22.021 COMPENSATION; HOURS
   Each officer of the Police Department shall be paid from city funds an
annual salary of at least five thousand four hundred dollars ($5,400.00) based
on a standard work year of two thousand eighty (2,080) hours beginning no later
than April 1, 1974.
(Ord. 75-1 § 2, 1975)
__________________
*Statutory reference:
   Law enforcement foundation program fund, see KRS 15.410 et seq.
§ 22.022 EDUCATIONAL REQUIREMENT
   Each officer employed after July 1, 1973, shall have as a minimum
educational attainment of a high school degree, or its equivalent, as
determined by the state law enforcement council.
(Ord. 75-1, 1975)
§ 22.023 CONTINUING EDUCATION; COMPENSATION DURING; ALTERNATE REQUIREMENTS
   (A)   Each officer employed on or after July 1, 1973, shall within one (1)
year of his date of employment complete a basic training course of at least
four hundred (400) hours duration at a school certified or recognized by the
state law enforcement council.
   (B)   Each officer shall receive in each calendar year five (5) days time
off with pay for the purpose of taking the required in-service training.
   (C)   Each officer, whether originally employed before or after July 1,
1972, shall successfully complete each year an in-service training course of
forty (40) hours duration appropriate to his rank and responsibility at a
school certified or recognized by the state law enforcement council.
(Ord. 75-1, 1975)
§ 22.024 INCENTIVE NOT TO AFFECT BENEFITS OR PAY
   No officer shall have his base salary reduced or be denied a normal salary
increase to which he is otherwise entitled because of the salary incentive
payments provided by the state law enforcement council under KRS 15.410 through
15.510.
(Ord. 75-1 § 5, 1975; Amended during the 1993 codification)
§ 22.025 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO CONTINUE FUNCTIONS
   The Police Department of the city and each officer thereof shall comply with
all provisions of law applicable to local police, including the transmission of
data to the Bureau of Criminal Information and Statistics as required by KRS
17.150.
(Ord. 75-1 § 6, 1975)
§ 22.026 REPORTS REQUIRED; REGULATION COMPLIANCE
   (A)   The Chief of the Police Department shall prepare or cause to be
prepared such quarterly and other reports as many be reasonably required by the
state law enforcement council to facilitate administration of the fund and
further the purposes of KRS 15.410 through 15.510.
   (B)   The Police Department and each officer thereof shall further comply
with all reasonable rules and regulations, appropriate to the size and location
of the local Police Department issued by the state law enforcement council to
facilitate the administration of the fund and further the purposes of KRS
15.410 through 15.510.
(Ord. 75-1 §§ 7, 8, 1975; Amended during the 1993 codification)
§ 22.027 SPECIAL ACCOUNT REQUIRED; USE OF FUNDS
   (A)   The City Clerk shall deposit in an appropriate account, which can be
identified separately from all other sources, all monies received under KRS
15.410 through 15.510.
   (B)   Forthwith upon receipt of any monies under KRS 15.410 through 15.510
the City Clerk shall pay to each police officer the full amount received on
behalf of that officer a check stub or receipt on which the gross amount of
monies paid to him under KRS 15.410 through 15.510 is included and identified.
(Ord. 75-1, 1975; Amended during 1993 codification)
§ 22.028 RECORDS REQUIRED
   All financial records relating to monies received under KRS 15.410 through
15.510 shall be retained for a period of three (3) years and until the
completion of an audit approved by the state law enforcement council and the
United States Law Enforcement Assistance Administration.
(Ord. 75-1, 1975; Amended during 1993 codification)
ARTICLE II. UTILITY COMMISSION
§ 22.100 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP
   (A)   There is created a city Utility Commission (hereinafter referred to as
the Commission). The Commission shall consist of three (3) to five (5) persons.
   (B)   The members of the Commission shall be citizens, taxpayers and legal
voters of the city and shall not at the time of their appointment be indebted
to the city, either directly or indirectly or be the surety on the official
bond of any officer of the city. The commissioners shall be persons of
outstanding reputation for ability and integrity.
(Ord. 52-1 § 1, 1952; Amended by January 1964; Am. Ord. 94-14, passed 12-8-94;
Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 3-30-15)
§ 22.101 TERMS; APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL
   (A)   The members of the Commission appointed under this article shall be
appointed for terms as follows: one for a term of three (3) years, from the
time the present terms of each member now serving expires.
   (B)   The commissioners and their successors shall be appointed by the Mayor
and approved by the City Council.
   (C)   All commissioners shall continue in office until their successors have
been appointed and qualified. Any commissioner shall be eligible for the
reappointment upon the expiration of his term.
   (D)   Any commissioner failing to attend three (3) successive meetings
without cause acceptable to and approved by the Commission shall be
automatically removed from office and the vacancy shall be filled as
hereinabove provided.
   (E)   Each commissioner shall be removable for cause by the recorded vote of
a majority of the City Council at a public hearing provided that the cause or
causes for such removal are submitted in writing to the City Council at least
two (2) weeks prior to the hearing.
   (F)   If any commissioner shall become a candidate for or be elected or
appointed to any public office or shall move from the city, he shall
automatically vacate his membership from the Commission.
   (G)   In the event of a vacancy on the Commission from any cause and also at
least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the term of any commissioner,
his successor shall be appointed as provided in subsections (A) and (B) of this
section.
(Ord. 52-1 §§ 2, 4, 1952; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 3-30-15)
§ 22.102 BONDS REQUIRED
   All commissioners shall qualify as such commissioners by accepting such
appointment and executing bond with corporate surety in the penal sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) conditioned upon their faithful performance of
their duties as such commissioners. The bonds shall be approved by the City
Council, and the Utilities System shall pay for same from the revenue of the
system the cost of securing corporate surety upon said bonds.
(Ord. 52-1 § 3, 1952; Am. Ord. 94-14, passed 12-8-94; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed
3-30-15)
§ 22.103 QUORUM; APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS
   (A)   A majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum at any meeting.
   (B)   The Commission shall annually at the first meeting in January organize
by designating one of its members chairman and another secretary. The chairman
shall preside at all meetings when present and shall call special meetings on
his own motion or when requested to do so by the other commissioners. The
secretary shall keep a record of the proceedings which shall be available for
inspection by any interested person.
   (C)   The Commission shall adopt rules and by-laws for the time and place of
its meetings and the conduct thereof.
(Ord. 52-1 § 5, 1952; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 3-30-15)
§ 22.104 COMPENSATION
   The commissioners' salaries shall be set by the City Council and shall be
paid by funds from the Morgantown Utilities System.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 12-8-94; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 3-30-15)
§ 22.105 CONTROL OF THE COMMISSION
   (A)   The Commission shall have full, complete and exclusive control of the
Utilities System and shall employ, fix the compensation of and have power to
discharge all employees of the system provided, however, that no officer or
employee of the city, whether holding a paid or unpaid office, shall be
eligible for employment of the system in any capacity.
   (B)   The Commission shall have full, complete and exclusive control of the
collection of all accounts due the Utilities System, the keeping of all records
of the system and the payment of all accounts due by the system. No expenses
may be incurred nor any disbursements made for the account of the Utilities
System without prior approval of the system.
   (C)   The Commission shall have full, complete and exclusive control over
the maintenance, operation and extension of the system and provide sufficient
reserve funds to insure the system is kept in good working order and to provide
against emergencies which may arise.
   (D)   So long as any of the bonds issued to purchase the Utilities System
are outstanding, the Commission shall take all action necessary and proper to
insure the strict compliance with each and every term, condition and covenant
of the ordinance under which the bonds were authorized, issued and sold.
   (E)   The Commission shall see that adequate and proper schedules of rates
for services are at all times in effect. The rates shall be so fixed as to
provide funds adequate to make all payments provided for in the bond
ordinances, to operate the system, to properly maintain it, to make all
necessary and proper replacements and to provide an adequate fund for
depreciation.
   (F)   The Commission shall make proper rules and regulations to insure the
Utilities System's clerk treasurer as provided by the bond ordinance.
   (G)   The Commission shall see that all accounts due the system are
collected promptly and shall promptly discontinue service whenever such
accounts are unpaid.
   (H)   The paying agent referred to hereinabove is the bond named in the
ordinance authorizing, creating and providing for the issuance and sale of
revenue bonds issued to pay for the Utilities System. The paying agent shall be
under no liability to either the city or the Commission or the bond holders for
the performance of the obligations imposed hereby and with the consent of a
majority of the bond holders. A different agent may be designated to perform
the duties.
(Ord. 94-14, passed 12-8-94; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 3-30-15)
ARTICLE III. DISASTER AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE ORGANIZATION
§ 22.300 CREATED; POWERS
   In order to minimize the destructiveness resulting from fire, flood,
tornado, other natural or man-caused disasters, riot, enemy attack, sabotage,
explosion, power failure, energy shortages, transportation emergencies or other
causes, and the threatened or impending happening of any of the above, and in
order to insure that preparations and response for the city will be adequate to
deal with disasters or emergencies or the threat of same and in order to
preserve life and property of the people of the city and to protect the public
peace, health and safety, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To create and maintain an agency within the city government for
disaster and emergency response and to work with Butler County in a joint
effort for organization, administration and operation of such program. The
title of the agency is to be "Butler County Disaster and Emergency Services".
   (B)   To provide for the appointment of a director or to acknowledge the
appointment of a director by the Butler County judge/executive with duties and
responsibilities to the city as specified hereinafter and additional
responsibilities bestowed upon him by the appointing authority.
   (C)   To provide for the arrangements of mutual aid among the city agencies
and nongovernment agencies the full utilization of city resources during
emergency and disaster situations.
(Ord. 81-1 (part), 1981)
§ 22.301 DIRECTOR; APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES
   Under the authority of this article and the provisions of KRS 39.415 the
appointment of a director for the city is required. Such official is to be
appointed by the Mayor or in the case of a combined city and county program the
Butler County judge/executive shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of emergency activity in the city,
subject to the direction and control of the Mayor and governing body. The
director may serve with or without compensation. The director of the Butler
County Disaster and Emergency Services is further authorized:
   (A)   To represent the city on all matters pertaining to disaster and
emergency services;
   (B)   To coordinate the efforts of all city agencies during emergencies and
disasters within the city;
   (C)   To direct and coordinate the development of disaster and emergency
plans and programs among city services, agencies and nongovernment agencies in
accordance with policies prescribed by state and federal agencies;
   (D)   To procure needed supplies, services and equipment during emergency
and disaster situations and to receive and sign for equipment, material,
services and funds furnished by or loaned from the federal and state
governments.
   (E)   To organize volunteers to serve as members of rescue and recovery
squads and coordinate with other volunteer personnel to serve during emergency
and disaster situations.
(Ord. 81-1 (part), 1981)
§ 22.302 SHARED FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
   The functions and responsibilities of the director of the local disaster
response organizations shall be shared by the elected and appointed heads of
all jurisdictional services and agencies with an emergency response capability
during an emergency or disaster.
(Ord. 81-1 § 1, 1981)
§ 22.303 UNAUTHORIZED REPRESENTATION PROHIBITED
   No person or organization shall represent themselves to the public as
constituting a unit of the local disaster response organization unless
specifically authorized, in writing, by the director and/or the appointing
authority.
(Ord. 81-1 § 2, 1981)
§ 22.304 MUTUAL AID ARRANGEMENTS
   The Mayor of the city with the consent of the governing body may develop, or
cause to be developed, arrangements for mutual aid with adjacent counties and
jurisdictions and other public and private agencies for emergency response
assistance in case of emergency or disaster situations too great to be overcome
by the use of local available resources.
(Ord. 81-1 § 3, 1981)
ARTICLE IV. TOURISM COMMISSION
§ 22.400 ESTABLISHMENT
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.350, there is hereby established a City of Morgantown
Tourism and Convention Commission.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 22.401 MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS
   (A)   The Commission established pursuant to KRS 91A.350(2) shall be
composed of seven (7) members to be appointed, in accordance with the method
used to establish the Commission. Members of a commission established by
separate action of the local governing body of a city located therein shall be
appointed separately by the Chief Executive Officer of the local governing body
that established the Commission. The Chief Executive Officer of a city shall
mean the Mayor. Appointments to a Commission shall be made by the appropriate
chief executive officer or officers in the following manner:
      (1)    Two (2) Commissioners shall be appointed from a list of three (3)
or more names submitted by the local city hotel and motel association and one
(1) Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three (3) or more names
submitted by the local county hotel and motel association, provided that if
only one (1) local hotel and motel association exists which covers both the
city and county, then three (3) Commissioners shall be appointed from a list of
six (6) or more names submitted by it. If no formal local city or county hotel
and motel association is in existence upon the establishment of a commission or
upon the expiration of the term of a commissioner appointed pursuant to this
subsection, then up to three (3) Commissioners shall be appointed by the
appropriate chief executive officer or officers from persons residing within
the jurisdiction of the commission and representing local hotels or motels. A
local city or county hotel and motel association shall not be required to be
affiliated with the Kentucky Hotel and Motel Association to be recognized as
the official local city or county hotel and motel association.
      (2)   One (1) Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three (3) or
more names submitted by the local restaurant association or associations. If no
formal local restaurant association or associations exist upon the
establishment of a Commission or upon the expiration of the term of a
commissioner appointed pursuant to this subsection, then one (1)
commissionershall be appointed by the appropriate chief executive officer or
officers from persons residing within the jurisdiction of the commission and
representing a local restaurant. A local restaurant association or associations
shall not be required to be affiliated with the Kentucky Restaurant Association
to be recognized as the official local restaurant association or associations.
      (3)   One (1) Commissioner shall be appointed from a list of three (3) or
more names submitted by the chamber or chambers of commerce existing within
those governmental units, which by joint or separate action have established
the Commission. If the Commission is established by joint action of a county
and a city or cities, then each chamber of commerce shall submit a list of
three (3) names, and the Chief Executive Officers of the participating
governmental units shall jointly appoint one (1) Commission member from the
aggregate list. If no local chamber of commerce is in existence upon the
establishment of a commission or upon the expiration of the term of a
commissioner appointed pursuant to this subsection, then one (1) Commissioner
shall be appointed by the appropriate chief executive officer or officers from
persons residing within the jurisdiction of the commission and representing
local businesses.
      (4)   Two (2) Commissioners shall be appointed in the following manner:
         (a)   By the chief executive officer of the city.
         (b)   A candidate submitted for appointment to the Commission,
pursuant to this section, shall be appointed by the appropriate Chief Executive
Officer within thirty (30) days of the receipt of the required list or lists.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner that original appointments are
made.
   (C)   The Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years,
provided, that in making the initial appointments, the appropriate chief
executive officer or officers shall appoint two (2) Commissioners for a term of
three (3) years, two (2) Commissioners for a term of two (2) years and three
(3) Commissioners for a term of one (1) year. There shall be no limitation on
the number of terms to which a commissioner is reappointed. Subsequent
appointments shall be for three (3) year terms.
   (D)   A Commissioner may be removed from office, by joint or separate
action, of the appropriate chief executive officer or officers of the local
governing body or bodies that established the Commission, as provided by KRS
65.007.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 22.402 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
   The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairman and a Treasurer,
and may employ personnel and make contracts necessary to carry out the purpose
of KRS 91A.350 to 91A.390. The contracts may include, but shall not be limited
to: the procurement of promotional services, advertising services, and other
services and materials relating to the promotion of tourist and convention
business. Contracts of the type enumerated shall be made only with persons,
organizations, and firms with experience and qualifications for providing
promotional services and materials, such as advertising firms, chambers of
commerce, publishers, and printers.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 9-12-2019)
§ 22.403 AUDITS
   The books of the Commission and its account as established in KRS 91A.390(2)
shall be audited annually by an independent auditor who shall make a report to
the Commission, to the associations submitting lists of names from which
Commission members are selected, to the appropriate Chief Executive Officer or
officers, to the State Auditor of Public Accounts, and to the local governing
body or bodies that established the Commission that was audited. A copy of the
audit report shall be made available by the Commission to members of the public
upon request and at no charge.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 9-12-2019)
ARTICLE V. VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 22.500 GUIDELINE
   The Standard Operating Procedures Manual of the Morgantown Volunteer Fire
Department, Policies and Procedures, attached to Ordinance 2005-06, shall be a
guideline for the operation of the City Fire Department.
(Ord. 05-06 § 1, 2005)
§ 22.501 AMENDING GUIDELINE
   The Standard Operating Procedures Manual, to include all policies, may only
be changed or amended by the Fire Department to increase safety to firefighters
and citizens, to reflect changes in state, federal, N.F.P.A. or I.S.O.
regulations, or to upgrade existing guidelines.
(Ord. 05-06 § 2, 2005)
ARTICLE VI. CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 22.600 DEFINITIONS
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   "ABATEMENT COSTS." A city's necessary and reasonable costs for and
associated with clearing, preventing unauthorized entry to, or demolishing all
or a portion of a structure or premises, or taking any other action with regard
to a structure or premises necessary to remedy a violation and to maintain and
preserve the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with any city
ordinance.
   "CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD." An administrative body created and acting under
the authority of the Local Government Code Enforcement Board Act, KRS 65.8801
to 65.8839.
   "CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER." A city police officer, safety officer, citation
officer, or other public law enforcement officer with the authority to issue a
citation.
   "FINAL ORDER." Any order:
      (1)   Issued by the Code Enforcement Board following a hearing in
accordance with §
22.608(E);
      (2)   Created because a violator neither paid nor contested the citation
within seven (7) days as provided in §
22.607(F); or
      (3)   Created because a violator failed to appear at a hearing the
violator requested to contest the citation as provided in §
22.608(C).
   "IMMINENT DANGER." A condition which is likely to cause serious or life-
threatening injury or death at any time.
   "ORDINANCE." An official action of the local government body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law and
shall include any provision of a code of ordinances adopted by the city
legislative body which embodies all or part of an ordinance.
   "OWNER." A person, association, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity having a legal or equitable title in real property.
   "PREMISES." A lot, plot or parcel of land, including any structures upon it.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.601 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP
   There is hereby created within the city pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to KRS
65.8839, a Code Enforcement Board which shall be composed of five (5) members,
all of whom shall be residents of the city for a period of at least one (1)
year prior to the creation of the Board and shall reside there throughout the
term in office.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.602 ENFORCEMENT POWERS
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall not have the authority to enforce any
ordinance regulating conduct which would also, under any provision of the
Kentucky Revised Statutes, constitute a criminal offense or a moving motor
vehicle offense.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.603 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; OATH;
COMPENSATION
   (A)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be appointed by the
executive authority of the city subject to the approval of the legislative
body.
   (B)   The initial appointment to the Code Enforcement Board shall be as
follows:
      (1)   One-third (1/3) of the membership or one-third (1/3) of the
membership and one (1) member of the board shall be appointed for a term of one
(1) year;
      (2)   One-third (1/3) of the membership or one-third (1/3) of the
membership and one (1) member of the board shall be appointed for a term of two
(2) years; and
      (3)   One-third (1/3) of the membership or one-third (1/3) of the
membership and one (1) member of the board shall be appointed for a term of
three (3) years.
   (C)   All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three (3) years. A
member may be reappointed, subject to the approval of the legislative body.
   (D)   Any vacancy on the Board shall be filled by the executive authority,
subject to approval of the legislative body, within sixty (60) days of the
vacancy. If the vacancy is not filled within that time period, the remaining
Code Enforcement Board members shall fill the vacancy. A vacancy shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   A Board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency, or willful neglect of duty. The executive
authority shall submit a written statement to the member and the legislative
body setting forth the reasons for removal. The member so removed shall have
the right of appeal to the Circuit Court.
   (F)   All members of the Code Enforcement Board shall, before entering upon
the duties of their office, take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Kentucky Constitution.
   (G)   Members of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for actual
expenses and compensated in the amount of one hundred and ten dollars ($110.00)
per meeting up to a maximum of two hundred and twenty dollars ($220.00) per
month. The Chairperson of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reimbursed for
actual expenses and compensated in the amount of one hundred and thirty-five
dollars ($135.00) per meeting up to a maximum of two hundred and seventy
dollars ($270.00) per month.
   (H)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board shall hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17; Am. Ord. 2023-11, passed 9-14-23)
   § 22.604 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; MEETINGS; QUORUM
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Board shall annually elect a chair from among its
members. The chair shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of
the Board. In the absence of the chair, the remaining members of the Board
shall select a member to preside in place of and exercise the powers of the
chair.
   (B)   Regular meetings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be held on the
first Thursday of every quarter. Meetings other than those regularly scheduled
shall be special meetings or emergency meetings held in accordance with the
requirements of the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (C)   All meetings and hearings of the Code Enforcement Board shall be
public meetings held in accordance with the requirements of KRS 65.8815(5) and
the Kentucky Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   The: presence of at least a majority of the Board's entire membership
shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of
the Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
   (E)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of any member on any issue decided by the Board shall be
recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.605 CONFLICT OF INTEREST
   Any member of the Code Enforcement Board who has any direct or indirect
financial or personal interest in any matter to be decided shall disclose the
nature of the interest, shall disqualify himself from voting on the matter in
which he has an interest, and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing
a quorum.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.606 POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
   The City of Morgantown Code Enforcement Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings consistent with this article.
   (B)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of an
ordinance over which it has jurisdiction.
   (C)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its hearings.
Subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   To take testimony under oath. The chairman shall have the authority to
administer oaths for the purpose of taking testimony.
   (E)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Board is authorized
to enforce.
   (F)   To impose civil fines, as authorized, on any person found to have
violated an ordinance over which the Board has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.607 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceeding before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings shall only be initiated by the issuance of a
citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   If a Code Enforcement Officer believes, based on his personal
observation or investigation, that a person has violated a city ordinance, he
may issue a Notice of Violation allowing the alleged violator a specified
period of time to remedy the violation without incurring a fine. If the alleged
violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified,
the Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a citation by one (1) of the
following methods:
      (1)   Personal service to the alleged violator;
      (2)   Leaving a copy of the citation with any person eighteen (18) years
of age or older who is on the premises, if the alleged violator is not on the
premises at the time the citation is issued; or
      (3)   Posting a copy of the citation in a conspicuous place on the
premises and mailing a copy of the citation by regular, first-class mail to the
owner of record of the property, if no one is on the premises at the time the
citation is issued.
   (D)   The citation issued by the Code Enforcement Officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (4)   The date and time the offense was committed;
      (5)   The facts constituting the offense;
      (6)   The section of the code or the number of the ordinance violated;
      (7)   The name of the Code Enforcement Officer;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed for the violation, including, if
applicable;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation within the time allowed: the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation; the determination that the violation
was committed shall be final; the citation as issued shall be deemed a final
order determining that the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine
as set forth in the citation; and the person shall be deemed to have waived the
right to appeal the final order to District Court.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by delivering the citation to
the Chairman of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (F)   (1)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven (7) days of the date of issuance by either paying the
civil fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing to contest the citation. If the
person fails to respond to the citation within seven (7) days, the person shall
be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the determination that a
violation was committed shall be considered final. In this event, the citation
as issued shall be deemed a final order determining that the violation was
committed and imposing the civil fine as set forth in the citation, and the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to appeal the final order to
District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and who is informed of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.608 HEARING; NOTICE; AND FINAL ORDER
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board or its
administrative staff shall schedule a hearing.
   (B)   Not less than seven (7) days before the date of the hearing, the Code
Enforcement Board shall notify the requester of the date, time, and place of
the hearing. The notice may be given by regular first-class mail; certified
mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by leaving the notice at
the person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who
is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of
the notice.
   (C)   (1)   Any person requesting a hearing who fails to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to have waived the right to a
hearing to contest the citation, and the determination that a violation was
committed shall be final. In this event, the citation as issued shall be deemed
a final order determining the violation was committed and imposing the civil
fine set forth in the citation, and the alleged violator shall be deemed to
have waived the right to appeal the final order to District Court.
      (2)   Notice of a final order shall be provided to the cited violator by
regular first-class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal
delivery; or by leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence
with any individual residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
who is informed of the contents of the notice.
   (D)   All testimony at the hearing shall be taken under oath and recorded.
Testimony shall be taken the Code Enforcement Officer, the alleged violator,
and any witnesses to the violation offered by the Code Enforcement Officer or
alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due
process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (E)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation was committed. If it is determined that no violation was
committed, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it is
determined that a violation was committed, an order may be issued upholding the
citation. The Board may impose a fine up to the maximum authorized by
ordinance, or require the offender to remedy a continuing violation to avoid a
fine, or both.
   (F)   (1)   Every final order following a hearing shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the findings and conclusions reached and the date
the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to the person named in the
citation.
      (2)   If the person named in the citation is not present when the final
order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the person by regular first-
class mail; certified mail, return receipt requested; personal delivery; or by
leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with any individual
residing therein who is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed
of the contents of the notice.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.609 PRESENTATION OF CASES
   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board shall be presented by an
attorney selected by the city, a Code Enforcement Officer for the city, or by a
member of the city's administrative staff. The city attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may present cases before the Code
Enforcement Board, but shall in no case serve in both capacities.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.610 APPEALS; FINAL JUDGMENT
   (A)   An appeal from a final order of a Code Enforcement Board following a
hearing conducted pursuant to §
22.608 may be made to the Butler County District Court within thirty (30) days
of the date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of
a complaint and a copy of the final order in the same manner as any civil
action under the Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure.
   (B)   If an appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set in subsection (A) of this section, the Code
Enforcement Board's order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.611 ORDINANCE FINES
   Violations of ordinances that are enforced by the City Code Enforcement
Board shall be subject to the fines set out by local ordinance.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.612 LIEN; FINES, CHARGES AND FEES
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a nonappealable final order as defined by §
22.600, or by a final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of a
city ordinance. The lien shall be for all civil fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement of the ordinance, including abatement costs. An affidavit of
the Code Enforcement Officer shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
amount of the lien and regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS 65.8801 to
65.8839.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest until paid. The lien shall continue for ten (10) years following the
date of the nonappealable final order or final court judgment.
   (C)   Subject to §
22.614, the lien shall take precedence over all other liens, except state,
county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings, including a foreclosure action.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in subsection (A) of this
section, the person found to have committed the violation shall be personally
responsible for the amount of all civil fines assessed for the violation and
for all charges, fees and abatement costs incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of the ordinance. The city may bring a civil action
against the person and shall have the same remedies as provided for the
recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.613 LIENHOLDER NOTIFICATION SYSTEM
   The city stall obtain and maintain priority over previously filed liens, as
provided in §
22.613, in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Individuals and entities, including but not limited to lienholders,
may register with the city to receive electronic notification of final orders
entered pursuant to this article.
   (B)   In order to receive the notification, the registrant shall submit the
following information to the Code Enforcement Officer:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Mailing address;
      (3)   Phone number; and
      (4)   Electronic mailing address.
   (C)   A registrant may use the electronic form provided on the city Web site
to submit the information required by subsection (B) of this section. It shall
be the responsibility of the registrant to maintain and update the required
contact information; with the city. The city shall inform a registrant of any
evidence received that the electronic mailing address is invalid or not
functional so that the registrant may provide an updated electronic mailing
address.
   (D)   Once per week, the city shall send electronic mail notification of all
final orders entered pursuant to this article since the last date of
notification to each party registered pursuant to this section. The
notification shall provide an electronic link to the city code enforcement
database located on the city Web site. The database shall include the following
information regarding each final order:
      (1)   The name of the person charged with a violation;
      (2)   The physical address of the premises where the violation occurred;
      (3)   The last known mailing address for the owner of the premises where
the violation occurred;
      (4)   A copy of the full citation;
      (5)   A copy of the full final order; and
      (6)   The status of the final order regarding its ability to be appealed
pursuant to this article.
   (E)   If an appeal is filed on a final order pursuant to this article, the
city shall send electronic mail notification to all registrants.
   (F)   Within ten (10) days of the issuance of a final order pursuant to this
article, the city shall update its code enforcement database to reflect the
issued final order, and shall post the notification required by subsection (D)
of this section containing an updated link to the code enforcement database on
the city Web site.
   (G)   The city shall maintain the records created under this section for ten
(10) years following their issuance.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.614 LIENS
   (A)   A lienholder of record who has registered pursuant to §
22.613(B) may, within forty-five (45) days from the date of issuance of
notification under §
22.613(D).
      (1)   Correct the violation, if it has not already been abated; or
      (2)   Pay all civil fines assessed for the violation, and all charges and
fees incurred by the city in connection with enforcement of the ordinance,
including abatement costs.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from taking immediate
action if necessary under §
22.615.
   (C)   The lien provided by §
22.612 shall not take precedence over previously recorded liens if:
      (1)   The city failed to comply with the requirements of §
22.613 for notification of the final order; or
      (2)   A prior lienholder complied with subsection (A) of this section.
   (D)   A lien that does not take precedence over previously recorded liens
under subsection (C) of this section shall, if the final order remains
partially unsatisfied, continue to take precedence over all other subsequent
liens except liens for state, county, school board and city taxes.
   (E)   The city may record a lien before the forty-five (45) day period
established in subsection (a) of this Section expires. If the lien is fully
satisfied prior to the expiration of the forty-five (45) day period, the city
shall release the lien in the county clerk's office where the lien is recorded
within fifteen (15) days of satisfaction.
   (F)   Failure of the city to comply with §§
22.613 and
22.614, or failure of a lien to take precedence over previously filed liens as
provided in subsection (C) of this section, shall not limit or restrict any
other remedies the city has against the property of the violator.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
§ 22.615 IMMEDIATE ACTION
   Nothing in this article shall prohibit the city from taking immediate action
to remedy a violation of its ordinances when there is reason to believe that
the violation presents a serious threat to the public health, safety, and
welfare, or if in the absence of immediate action, the effects of the violation
will be irreparable or irreversible.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-9-17)
CHAPTER 23: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
23.001   Definitions
   
23.002   Accounting records
   
23.003   Annual budget
   
23.004   Annual city audit
   
23.005   Official depositories
ARTICLE II.   PROCUREMENT
   
23.100   Definitions
   
23.101   State law regulations to govern procurement
   
23.102   Maintenance of required records
   
23.103   Bidder’s list; vendor prequalification
   
23.104   Sealed bids
   
23.105   Competitive negotiations
   
23.106   Non-competitive negotiations
   
23.107   Small purchase procedures
   
23.108   Multiple and partial contracts
   
23.109   Sureties and bonds; submission of cost or pricing data; inspection of
contractor’s records and place of business
   
23.110   Contract awards not to exceed appropriations
   
23.111   Final procurement decisions to be in writing
   
23.112   Contract modification, termination
   
23.113   Verification and public availability of records
   
23.114   Grant requirements
   
23.115   Equal employment opportunity
   
23.116   Determination of prevailing wage for construction contracts
   
23.117   Cooperative purchasing
   
23.118   Receipt required to process invoice for payment
   
23.119   Sale of surplus, personal property belonging to city
   
23.120   City employees forbidden to purchase property sold by city
ARTICLE III.   CHARITABLE DONATIONS
   
23.200   Donation policy
   
23.201   Review of application
   
23.202   Emergency funding
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 23.001 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning:
   “BUDGET.” A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   “DEBT SERVICE.” The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   “ENCUMBRANCES.” Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   “FISCAL YEAR.” The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   “GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS.” Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   “GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING.” Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 23.002 ACCOUNTING RECORDS
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The city accounting system shall be organized and operated on a fund
basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 23.003 ANNUAL BUDGET
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of law, the city shall not expend any monies from a
governmental or proprietary fund, except in accordance with a budget ordinance
adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Monies held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If, in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year shall
have full force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one (1) fiscal year, and
shall be from July 1 of each year to the next succeeding June 30.
(Ord. 10-1981, passed 6-2-81)
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor, and the budget proposal shall be prepared in the form and detail as is
prescribed by ordinance.
   (F)   The budget proposal, together with a budget message shall be submitted
to the City Council no later than thirty (30) days before the beginning of the
fiscal year it covers. The budget message shall: contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, program and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (G)   The City Council shall adopt a budget ordinance making appropriations
for the fiscal year in such sums as the Council finds sufficient and proper,
whether greater or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The
budget ordinance may be in any form that the Council finds most efficient in
enabling it to make the necessary fiscal policy decisions.
   (H)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for expenditures
to exceed revenues in any one (1) fiscal year in violation of Section 157b of
the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   The Council may amend the budget ordinance after the ordinance is
adopted, if the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the requirements of this
section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility shall include the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements which shall
include budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual
budget has been adopted. These reports shall be submitted not less than once
every three (3) months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
23.002.
   (M)   No city agency or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency may bind the city in any way or to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond existing appropriations
are void. No city officer shall issue any bond, certificate, or warrant for the
payment of money by the city in any way to any extent beyond the unexpended
balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030)
§ 23.004 ANNUAL CITY AUDIT
   (A)   After the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be
audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified public accountant. The
audit shall be completed by March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited. The city shall forward an electronic copy of the audit report to the
Department for Local Government for information purposes by no later than April
1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited.
   (B)   If a city is required by another provision of law to audit its funds
more frequently or more stringently than is required by this section, the city
shall also comply with the provisions of that law.
   (C)   The Department for Local Government shall, upon request, make
available electronic copies of the audit reports and financial statements
received by it under division (A) of this section to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975 or to the Auditor
of Public Accounts.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biennial
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include but not be limited to requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual or biennial city audit
report an examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to
the city under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification
with the annual or biennial audit report that the funds were expended for the
purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which include tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary in the circumstances.
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to the city legislative body at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's work papers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to a
city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (F)   Each city shall, within thirty (30) days after the presentation of an
audit to the city legislative body, publish an advertisement in accordance with
KRS Ch. 424 containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The "Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds," which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty-five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220, when a financial statement is required by KRS
424.220, are available to the public at no cost at the business address of the
officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (G)   Any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city may
bring an action in the Circuit Court to enforce the provisions of this section.
Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500). In
addition, any officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
section shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than
fifty dollars ($50) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500), in the
discretion of the court, which may be recovered only once in a civil action
brought by any resident of the city or owner of real property within the city.
The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of
the resident or property owner bringing the action, shall be assessed against
the unsuccessful party.
   (H)   In the event of extenuating circumstances that prevent a city from
completing and submitting a required audit or financial statement in compliance
with the applicable deadlines in division (A) of this section, the city may
submit a written request for an extension of time to the Department for Local
Government on a form prescribed by the Department for Local Government. The
Department for Local Government shall approve the request if it is submitted on
or before the applicable deadline and, in the judgment of the Department for
Local Government, the request is warranted by extenuating circumstances beyond
the control of the city. Extensions granted under this subsection shall not
exceed nine (9) months from the original due date of the audit or financial
statement. If the Department for Local Government approves an extension for a
city and the city fails to complete and submit the required audit or financial
statement in compliance with that extended deadline, then the provisions of
division (I) of this section shall apply.
   (I)   If a city fails to complete an audit or financial statement and submit
it to the Department for Local Government as required in divisions (A) and (H)
of this section, the Department for Local Government shall notify the Finance
and Administration Cabinet that the city has failed to comply with the audit
requirements of this section, and that any funds in the possession of any
agency, entity, or branch of state government shall be withheld from the city
until further notice. The Department for Local Government shall immediately
notify the Finance and Administration Cabinet when the city complies with the
requirements of divisions (A) and (H) of this section for all prior fiscal
years it has failed to comply with the audit requirements of this section, and
the Finance and Administration Cabinet shall direct the reinstatement of
payments to the city, including any funds that were withheld due to the
noncompliance.
   (J)   Within a reasonable time after the completion of a special audit or
examination conducted pursuant to KRS 43.050, the Auditor shall bill the city
for the actual expense of the audit or examination conducted. The actual
expense shall include the hours of work performed on the audit or examination
as well as reasonable associated costs, including but not limited to travel
costs. The bill submitted to the city shall include a statement of the hourly
rate, total hours, and total costs for the entire audit or examination.
(KRS 91A.040)
_________________
Cross reference:
   Public records, see
Chapter 24
§ 23.005 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one (1)
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor, which shall
state the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable.
(KRS 91A.060)
ARTICLE II. PROCUREMENT
§ 23.100 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “AGGREGATE AMOUNT.” The total dollar amount during a fiscal year of items of
a like nature, function, and use, the need of which can reasonably be
determined at the beginning of the fiscal year. Items for which the need could
not reasonably be established in advance or which were unavailable because of a
failure of delivery need not be included in the “AGGREGATE AMOUNT.”
   “CAPITAL COST AVOIDANCE.” Monies expended by a local public agency to pay
for an energy conservation measure identified as a permanent equipment
replacement and whose cost has been discounted by any additional energy and
operation savings generated from other energy conservation measures identified
in the guaranteed energy savings contract, except that for school districts,
capital cost avoidance shall also mean monies expended by the district from one
(1) or more of the following sources:
   (A)   General Fund;
   (B)   Capital outlay allotment under KRS 157.420; and
   (C)   State and local funds from the Facilities Support Program of Kentucky
under
KRS 157.440.
   “CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.” The Mayor, County Judge/Executive, Superintendent
of Schools, or the Principal Administrative Officer of a local public agency,
or the person designated by Chief Executive Officer or legislative body of the
local public agency to perform the procurement function.
   “CONSTRUCTION.” The process of building, altering, repairing, or improving
any public structure or building, or other public improvements of any kind to
any public real property. “CONSTRUCTION” does not include the routine
operation, routine repair, or routine maintenance of existing structures or
real property.
   “CONTRACT.” All types of local public agency agreements, including grants
and orders, for the purchase or disposal of supplies, services, construction,
or any other item. It includes awards and notice of awards; contracts of a
fixed-price, costs, cost-plus-a-fixed-fee, or incentive type; contracts
providing for the issuance of job or task orders; leases; letter contracts; and
purchase orders. “CONTRACT” also includes supplemental agreements with respect
to any of the foregoing. It does not include labor contracts with employees of
local public agencies.
   “DOCUMENT.” Any physical embodiment of information or ideas, regardless of
form or characteristic, including electronic versions thereof.
   “ENERGY CONSERVATION MEASURE.” A training program or facility alteration
designed to reduce energy consumption or operating costs, and may include one
(1) or more of the following:
   (A)   Insulation of the building structure or structures within the
building;
   (B)   Storm windows or doors, caulking or weatherstripping, multiglazed
windows or doors, heat absorbing or heat reflective glazed and coated window or
door systems, additional glazing, reductions in glass area, or other window and
door system modifications that reduce energy consumption;
   (C)   Automated or computerized energy control systems;
   (D)   Heating, ventilating, or air conditioning system modifications or
replacements;
   (E)   Replacement or modification of lighting fixtures to increase the
energy efficiency of the lighting system without increasing the overall
illumination of a facility, unless an increase in illumination is necessary to
conform to the applicable state or local building code for the lighting system
after the proposed modifications are made;
   (F)   Energy recovery systems;
   (G)   Cogeneration systems that produce steam or forms of energy such as
heat, as well as electricity, for use primarily within a building or complex of
buildings;
   (H)   Energy conservation measures that provide long-term operating cost
reductions; or
   (I)   Any life safety measures that provide long-term operating cost
reductions.
   “ESTABLISHED CATALOGUE PRICE.” The price included in the most current
catalogue, price list, schedule, or other form that:
   (A)   Is regularly maintained by the manufacturer or vendor of an item;
   (B)   Is either published or otherwise available for inspection by
customers; and
   (C)   States prices at which sales are currently or were last made to a
significant number of buyers constituting the general buying public for that
item.
   “EVALUATED BID PRICE.” The dollar amount of a bid after bid-price
adjustments are made pursuant to objective measurable criteria, set forth in
the invitation for bids, which affects the economy and effectiveness in the
operation or use of the product, such as reliability, maintainability, useful
life, residual value, and time of delivery, performance, or completion.
   “GUARANTEED ENERGY SAVINGS CONTRACT.” A contract for the evaluation and
recommendation of energy conservation measures and for implementation of one
(1) or more of those measures. The contract shall provide that all payments,
except obligations on termination of the contracts before its expiration, are
to be made over time and the savings are guaranteed to the extent necessary to
make payments for the cost of the design, installation, and maintenance of
energy conservation measures.
   “INVITATION FOR BIDS.” All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, utilized for soliciting bids in accordance with the procedures as
set forth in KRS 45A.365.
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY” or “GOVERNING BOARD.” A council, commission, or other
legislative body of a city or urban-county; a county fiscal court; board of
education of a county or independent school district; board of directors of an
area development district or special district; or board of any other local
public agency.
   “LOCAL PUBLIC AGENCY.” A city, county, urban-county, school district,
special district, or an agency formed by a combination of such agencies under
KRS Chapter 79, or any department, board, commission, authority, office, or
other sub-unit of a political subdivision which shall include the offices of
the county clerk, county sheriff, county attorney, coroner, and jailer.
   “MAY.” Is permissive. However, the words “no person may…” mean that no
person is required, authorized, or permitted to do the act prescribed.
   “NEGOTIATION.” Contracting by either the methods set forth in KRS 45A.370,
45A.375, or 45A.380.
   “NON-COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATION.” Informal negotiation with one (1) or more
vendors, contractors, or individuals without advertisement or notice.
   “OBJECTIVE MEASURABLE CRITERIA.” Sufficient information in the invitation to
bid as to weight and method of evaluation so that the evaluation may be
determined with reasonable mathematical certainty. Criteria which are otherwise
subjective such as taste and appearance may be established when appropriate.
   “PERSON.” Any business, individual, union, committee, club, or other
organization or group of individuals.
   “PROCUREMENT.” The purchasing, buying, renting, leasing, or otherwise
obtaining any supplies, services, or construction. “PROCUREMENT” also includes
all functions that pertain to the obtaining of any public procurement,
including description of requirements, selection, and solicitation of sources,
preparation and award of contracts, and all phases of contract administration.
   “QUALIFIED PROVIDER.” A person or business experienced in the design,
implementation, and installation of energy conservation measures and is
determined to be qualified by the local public agency. The “QUALIFIED PROVIDER”
shall be responsible for and shall provide the local public agency with the
following information regarding guaranteed energy savings contracts:
   (A)   Project design and specifications;
   (B)   Construction management;
   (C)   Construction;
   (D)   Commissioning;
   (E)   On-going services as required;
   (F)   Measurement and verification of savings for guaranteed energy savings
contracts; and
   (G)   Annual reconciliation statements as provided in KRS 45A.352(8).
   “REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.” All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, utilized for soliciting proposals in accordance with the procedures
set forth in KRS 45A.370, 45A.375, 45A.380, or 45A.385.
   “RESPONSIBLE BIDDER” or “RESPONSIBLE OFFEROR.” A person who has the
capability in all respects to perform fully the contract requirements and the
integrity and reliability which will assure good faith performance.
   “RESPONSIBLE BIDDER.” A person who has submitted a bid under KRS 45A.365
which conforms in all material respects to the invitation for bids, so that all
bidders may stand on equal footing with respect to the method and timeliness of
submission and as to the substance of any resulting contract.
   “SERVICES.” The rendering by a contractor of its time and effort rather than
the furnishing of a specific end product, other than reports which are merely
incidental to the required performance of service. It does not include labor
contracts with employees of local public agencies.
   “SHALL.” Is imperative.
   “SPECIFICATIONS.” Any description of a physical or functional characteristic
of a supply, service, or construction item. It may include a description of any
requirement for inspecting, testing, or preparing a supply, service, or
construction item for delivery.
   “SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT.” Any contract modification which is accomplished by
the mutual action of the parties.
   “SUPPLIES.” All property, including but not limited to, leases on real
property, printing, and insurance, except land or a permanent interest in land.
(KRS 45A.345)
§ 23.101 STATE LAW REGULATIONS TO GOVERN PROCUREMENT
   Pursuant to KRS 45A.343, the regulations provided in this article, along
with all provisions of KRS 45A.345 through 45A.460, shall govern all
procurement activities. These regulations shall remain in effect unless and
until modified by Council.
§ 23.102 MAINTENANCE OF REQUIRED RECORDS
   All ordinances and regulations pertaining to procurement, whether
promulgated under this article or otherwise, shall be maintained by the city
and shall be available to the public upon request at a cost not to exceed the
cost of reproduction.
(KRS 45A.360(2))
_________________
Cross reference:
   Certain records to be protected from public inspection, see §
24.107
§ 23.103 BIDDER’S LIST; VENDOR PREQUALIFICATION
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to receive written notice of
procurement requirements of the city may make application to have his name
placed on a bidder’s list for the types or kinds of goods or services he wishes
to supply or provide. The city may specify the form to be used and the
procedure to be followed by the prospective vendor to make application for
inclusion on the bidder’s lists.
   (B)   The city may publish a program for vendor prequalification. To
establish a program for vendor prequalification, the city shall solicit from
each prospective vendor sufficient information to permit evaluation of vendor’s
qualifications in terms of the following:
      (1)   The ability and capacity to perform on a timely basis under
contract for goods or services he wishes to bid on and supply;
      (2)   Good character, integrity, reputation, and experience;
      (3)   Satisfactory performance in prior dealings with the city; and
      (4)   Satisfactory performance in dealings with other local government
units, the state, and other state governments.
   (C)   The city may refuse to list any prospective vendor if that vendor does
not meet the minimum requirements established for entry on a bidder’s list. It
is the responsibility of the vendor to show that he meets established
qualifications for entry on the bidder’s list to which he seeks to gain entry.
      (1)   The prospective vendor will be promptly notified if his application
is disapproved and the reason for disapproval shall be stated.
      (2)   A prospective bidder may appeal the disapproval of his application
to the city. The appeal must be filed within two (2) weeks after the date of
the notice of disapproval, and must state the grounds for the appeal with
reasonable particularity and must relate directly to the reason for disapproval
of the application.
      (3)   The city may establish the time at which and the conditions under
which a vendor whose application has been disapproved may reapply for placement
on a bidder’s list.
   (D)   A bid may be accepted from a bidder who has not prequalified, provided
that the bidder submits all information required by the city to make a
determination of the bidder’s qualifications prior to award of the contract.
_________________
Statutory reference:
   Authority to govern prequalification of prospective bidders, see KRS
45A.400.
§ 23.104 SEALED BIDS
   All contracts and purchases shall be awarded by competitive sealed bidding
as follows, unless otherwise provided in this article.
   (A)   Advertising.
      (1)   All sealed bids shall be advertised not less than seven (7) nor
more than twenty-one (21) days prior to the date set for the opening of bids.
The invitation for bids shall state whether the award shall be made on the
basis of the lowest bid price or the lowest evaluated bid price. If the latter
is used, the objective measurable criteria to be utilized shall be set forth in
the invitation for bids.
      (2)   The advertisement shall include the time and place the bids will be
opened and where the specifications may be obtained.
      (3)   Advertisements shall be entered in the newspaper with the largest
circulation within the jurisdiction area of the city.
      (4)   The advertisement for bids may be placed in other publications
when, in the judgment of the city, such advertisement would best secure the
interests of the city.
      (5)   If it is determined during the advertising period that additional
time should be allowed for the preparation of bids, the bid opening date may be
extended by the following methods:
         (a)   Placing a legal notice, specifying the revised bid date in the
local newspaper with the largest circulation. The revised bid opening date
shall be not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty-one (21) days after the
appearance of the legal notice.
         (b)   Issuing an addendum to the invitation for bids. This addendum
shall be in writing, must be mailed or delivered to all holders of the
invitation for bids, and must be acknowledged on the form of proposal by each
bidder submitting a bid.
      (6)   Extensions of the bid opening date may be permitted under the
following circumstances:
         (a)   Changes are made in specifications after advertisement;
         (b)   One (1) or more bidders notify the city of discrepancies,
errors, or areas requiring clarification in the specification;
         (c)   Specifications require design work on the part of the bidders,
and when unforeseen conditions make completion of bid preparation prior to the
bid deadline impossible;
         (d)   Strikes, disasters, or other uncontrollable factors prevent
bidders from acquiring information necessary for bid preparation; or
         (e)   Other reasons as may be determined by the city.
      (7)   An invitation for bids may be rescinded under the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Conditions leading to issuance of an invitation for bids change
sufficiently to make the proposed purpose unnecessary;
         (b)   Funds for the proposed purchase become unavailable; or
         (c)   It becomes apparent that no bids will be received because the
item or service requested is currently unavailable; the bid price will
apparently exceed available funds; or major revisions in the specifications are
necessary to ensure that responsive and responsible bids are received.
   (B)   Specifications and standard specifications. As set forth in KRS
45A.415, the city shall use specifications which assure the maximum practicable
competition to meet the city’s needs. A specification which describes a product
which is proprietary to one (1) company may be used only when no other kind of
specification is reasonably available to describe requirements; and such
specification includes language which specifically permits an equivalent
product to be supplied. Such specification shall include a description of the
salient characteristics of the product.
      (1)   All specifications used in the procurement process shall be
designed to provide the maximum practicable competition consistent with the
level of quality required. All specifications shall be in a standard format
established by the city. Specifications shall be as open and accurate as
conditions permit. Any restrictive element shall require written justification
by the using agency. The appropriate type of specification, as described below,
shall be used for each purchase:
         (a)   Design specifications prescribe how an item is to be
manufactured or built. This type of specification is particularly suitable for
construction projects.
         (b)   Performance specifications describe the capabilities of the item
to be purchased. Criteria are developed to measure the ability of the item to
be purchased to perform or last.
         (c)   A combination of design and performance specifications may be
used when appropriate.
         (d)   Brand name or equivalent specifications may be used only when
other types of specifications are inappropriate or unavailable. If brand name
or equivalent specifications are used, the specification must specify more than
one (1) brand name if possible; specifically state that any equivalent product
may be supplied, with the burden of proof of equivalency being on the proposing
vendor; and must set forth all salient criteria to be met by all products
proposed.
      (2)   The city may, when appropriate for the anticipated procurement,
establish a qualified products list and may use this list in place of detailed
specifications.
         (a)   The city shall establish the criteria to be met by any product
proposed for inclusion on a qualified products list, and shall make those
criteria available to the public and to interested vendors.
         (b)   A bidder may, in response to an invitation for bids issued on
the basis of a qualified products list, propose to furnish a product not
included on the qualified products list if he demonstrates, prior to the award
of the contract and to the satisfaction of the city, that the product proposed
meets all criteria established for inclusion on the qualified products list.
   (C)   Use of forms. All bids shall be submitted on forms provided by the
city. Bids submitted on other forms may be rejected as nonresponsive. Bid form
shall not be altered in any manner. If there are acceptable exceptions, they
shall be listed and noted on a separate sheet and shall be attached to the bid
form. Each exception noted shall state the increase or decrease in the total
cost of the commodity or service to be furnished.
   (D)   Use of bid price or evaluated bid price. A bid shall be awarded to the
responsible bidder who submits the responsive bid for the lowest bid price or
lowest evaluated price.
      (1)   If the bid is to be awarded on the basis of lowest bid price, the
method of award shall be clearly stated in the invitation for bids.
      (2)   If the bid is to be awarded on the basis of lowest evaluated bid
price, the evaluation criteria to be used, along with applicable formulas or
computation methods, shall be clearly stated in the invitation for bids.
   (E)   Withdrawal of bids. No bid, once submitted, may be withdrawn before
the time allowed for acceptance stated in the invitation for bids has elapsed
unless the following circumstances occur. Any bid withdrawal, except under the
following circumstances, shall require forfeiture of bid security.
      (1)   Bids have not been opened and a written request is received from a
bidder for withdrawal of his bid more than twenty-four (24) hours before the
date and time set for opening.
      (2)   An error has been made that is obvious on the face of the bid
(e.g., error in extensions, arithmetical errors, and the like).
      (3)   The bidder can demonstrate from worksheets or other documents that
an error has been made in preparation of the bid documents.
      (4)   Request for withdrawal of a bid is made in writing to the city
clearly stating the reason for the request for withdrawal.
   (F)   Waiver of requirements. The city may waive any informalities and may
establish conditions under which any incomplete bids may be considered if it is
determined that the waiver is in the best interests of the city.
   (G)   Opening time for bids.
      (1)   An opening time for each bid shall be stated in the advertisement
and invitation for bids.
      (2)   It shall be the bidder’s responsibility to assure that his bid is
in the office before the time set for receipt of bids.
      (3)   The city shall, at the time set for opening bids, publicly open all
bids submitted. If the structure of the invitation for bids permits, all bids
submitted shall be read aloud.
      (4)   Bids shall not be examined, inspected, or reviewed by persons
present at the opening until all bids have been opened.
      (5)   The city shall, with reasonable promptness, prepare a tabulation of
all bids received in response to an invitation for bids, together with the
names of the bidders. This information shall be made available to the public
upon reasonable request.
   (H)   Evaluation and awards.
      (1)   After the bids are opened, the city shall review all bids for
compliance with specifications, terms, and conditions.
      (2)   Every bidder, when requested by the city, shall clarify or explain
in writing, any matter contained in his bid which the city determines needs
clarification or explanation. The bid of any bidder who fails to provide this
written clarification or explanation of his bid when the clarification or
explanation is requested shall not be considered for award. The written
clarification or explanation of a bid shall be incorporated in and become part
of any contract awarded on the basis of that bid.
      (3)   Alternate bids will be considered for award only if the invitation
for bids specifically requests that alternates be submitted and establishes
conditions under which alternate bids shall be considered for award.
      (4)   After evaluation, a contract shall be awarded with reasonable
promptness to the responsive bidder whose bid (or alternate bid, if alternates
are requested in the invitation for bids) is either the lowest bid price or the
lowest evaluated bid price, as designated in the invitation for bids as the
basis for award of the contract.
      (5)   If the city determines, in writing, that no satisfactory bid has
been received, all bids may be rejected and new bids may be invited on the
basis of the same or revised specifications, or competitive negotiations may be
undertaken for the procurement. The basis for rejection of all bids and
subsequent action taken with respect to the invitation for bids shall be
recorded in writing and filed in the bid file relating to the particular
procurement. The city reserves the right to hold all bids for a period of
thirty (30) days.
   (I)   Rejection of bids. The city reserves the right to reject any and all
bids and to waive informalities and minor irregularities in the bids. Grounds
for rejection include, but shall not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Failure of a bid to conform to the essential requirements of an
invitation for bids;
      (2)   Failure to conform to specifications contained in or referred to in
any invitation for bids unless the invitation authorized submission of
alternate bids and the alternate proposal meets the requirements specified in
the invitation for bids;
      (3)   Failure to conform to a delivery schedule established in the
invitation for bids;
      (4)   Imposition of conditions which would modify the terms and
conditions of the invitation for bids, or which would limit the bidder’s
liability to the city under terms of the contract awarded on the basis of the
invitation for bids;
      (5)   Failure of a bid to be reasonable in price;
      (6)   Failure of a bid to be responsible, as set forth in KRS 45A.395; or
      (7)   Failure to furnish a bid guarantee when the guarantee is required
by an invitation for bids.
   (J)   Bid conditions.
      (1)   The city may adapt and revise as necessary, general conditions for
bidding. The general conditions for bidding shall be applicable to, included
in, or incorporated by reference in all invitations for bids issued by the
city.
      (2)   The city may, as required by a particular procurement, develop and
adapt special bid conditions supplemental to the general bid conditions.
      (3)   Any bidder who submits a bid in response to an invitation for bids
shall be deemed to have agreed to comply with all terms, conditions, and
specifications of the invitation for bids.
      (4)   Where, after invitation for bid has been made in accordance with
KRS 45A.365 and no bids have been received from responsive and responsible
bidders, the city may proceed to acquire the supplies, services, or
construction by non-competitive negotiations in accordance with KRS 45A.380.
   (K)   Contract pricing. The following matters shall be applicable to all
invitations for bids issued, bids submitted, and contracts awarded for the
purchase of commodities, supplies, and equipment pursuant to KRS 45A.365 and
this regulation.
      (1)   Discounts shall not be considered unless stated in the invitation
for bids.
      (2)   In case of discrepancy in the extension of a price, the unit price
shall govern over the total price for all items.
      (3)   An award may be made to the lowest responsible aggregate bidder for
all items, groups of items, or on an individual item basis, whichever is deemed
to be in the best interest of the city. The methods and basis of evaluation of
bids and award of contract shall be stated in the invitation for bids.
   (L)   Cancellation. As set forth in KRS 45A.390, an invitation for bid or a
request for a proposal or other solicitation may be canceled, or all bids or
proposals may be rejected, if it is determined in writing that such action is
in the best interest of the city.
_________________
Statutory reference:
   Competitive sealed bidding, see KRS 45A.365
§ 23.105 COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATIONS
   (A)   Competitive negotiations may be used for a procurement under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The particular procurement is of such a complex nature or includes
such technical detail that specifications cannot be fairly and objectively
prepared to permit competition by sealed bids.
      (2)   The particular procurement is for high technology equipment
available from a limited number of sources of supply and for which
specifications cannot practically be prepared except by reference to the
specifications of the equipment of a single source of supply.
      (3)   The city determines, in writing, that the conditions permitting
contracting by competitive negotiation pursuant to KRS 45A.370 and KRS 45A.375
exist.
   (B)   When the city determines, in writing, that competitive negotiation is
necessary to carry out a particular procurement, competitive negotiations shall
commence by advertisement of a request for written proposals as provided in KRS
45A.370. A request for proposals shall include the following:
      (1)   A request by the city for proposals pursuant to KRS 45A.370 and KRS
45A.375;
      (2)   A statement of the work required;
      (3)   Desired performance schedule;
      (4)   Available government-furnished property, if any;
      (5)   Applicable provisions to be included in the contract, if awarded;
      (6)   Criteria that will be used to evaluate proposals received;
      (7)   Where and how detailed specifications may be obtained; and
      (8)   Required time and place for submission of offers.
   (C)   All written proposals received by the city in response to a request
for proposals shall be kept secure and unopened until the date and time set for
opening.
      (1)   Proposals not clearly marked as such on the envelope in which the
proposal is submitted may be opened for identifications purposes, appropriately
identified, and resealed until the time for opening proposals.
      (2)   Proposals shall be opened on the date and at the time set for
opening.
      (3)   Proposals for competitive negotiations shall not be subject to
public inspections until negotiations between the city and all offerors have
been concluded and a contract is awarded.
   (D)   The city shall examine the written proposals received for general
conformity with the advertised terms of the procurement.
      (1)   The city shall determine in writing, based on individual review,
those proposals received from responsible offerors that constitute a reasonable
basis for negotiation. Each offeror shall be contacted informally and a meeting
scheduled for discussion of the offeror’s proposals.
      (2)   Discussions need not be conducted under the circumstances of or
relative to the topics enumerated in KRS 45A.370(3)(a), (b), and (c).
      (3)   Discussions with offerors shall be held informally orally, in
writing, or both orally and in writing, as determined by the city to be most
advantageous to the city.
      (4)   If, after discussions with all responsible offerors have concluded,
it is determined that no acceptable proposal has been submitted, any or all
proposals may be rejected, and in the discretion of the city, new proposals may
be requested as provided in this article on the basis of the same or revised
terms, or the procurement may be abandoned.
   (E)   The city shall prepare a written summary of all oral discussions in
competitive negotiations setting forth the date or dates of discussions with
all responsible offerors and the general substance of the discussions. Verbatim
records of the discussion shall not be required.
_________________
Statutory reference:
   Competitive negotiations, see KRS 45A.370, 45A.375
§ 23.106 NON-COMPETITIVE NEGOTIATIONS
   (A)   Non-competitive negotiations may be used only when written
determination is made that competition is not feasible and it is further
determined in writing by the city that any of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   An emergency exists which will cause public harm as a result of the
delay in competitive procedure;
      (2)   There is a single source within a reasonable geographical area of
the product or service to be procured;
      (3)   The contract is for the services of a licensed professional, such
as an attorney, physician, psychiatrist, psychologist, certified public
accountant, registered nurse, or educational specialist; a technician such as a
plumber, electrician, carpenter, or mechanic; or an artist such as a sculptor,
aesthetic painter, or musician. However, this provision shall not apply to
architects or engineers providing construction management services rather than
professional architect or engineer services;
      (4)   The contract is for the purchase of perishable items purchased on a
weekly or more frequent basis, such as fresh fruits, vegetables, fish, or meat;
      (5)   The contract is for replacement parts where the need cannot be
reasonably anticipated and stockpiling is not feasible;
      (6)   The contract is for proprietary items for resale;
      (7)   In school districts the contract relates to an enterprise in which
the buying or selling by students is a part of the educational experience;
      (8)   The contract or purchase is for expenditures made on authorized
trips outside of the boundaries of the city;
      (9)   The contract is for purchase of supplies which are sold at public
auction or by receiving sealed bids;
      (10)   The contract is for group life insurance, group health and
accident insurance, group professional liability insurance, workers’
compensation and unemployment insurance; or
      (11)   The contract is for a sale of supplies at reduced prices that will
afford a purchase at savings to the city.
   (B)   Non-competitive bidding may also be used when the goods or services
are in any of the following categories:
      (1)   Services or goods actually required during an emergency;
      (2)   Services provided by a public utility or pursuant to a franchise
awarded according to law;
      (3)   Goods, services, equipment, publications, subscriptions,
memberships, instructional materials, and works of art available from a single
source;
      (4)   Special supplies or equipment required for laboratory or
experimental studies;
      (5)   Services from non-profit agencies who provide the services for the
benefit of the citizens of the city; or
      (6)   Real property or interest in real property.
_________________
Statutory reference:
   Non-competitive negotiations, see KRS 45A.380
§ 23.107 SMALL PURCHASE PROCEDURES
   The local public agency may use small purchase procedures for any contract
for which a determination is made that the aggregate amount of the contract
does not exceed forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00) if small purchase
procedures are in writing and available to the public.
(KRS 45A.385)
§ 23.108 MULTIPLE AND PARTIAL CONTRACTS
   (A)   Multiple contracts. Multiple contracts may be awarded on the basis of
a single invitation for bids or after competitive negotiations when it is
determined in writing by the city, in advance of the invitation for bids or the
advertisement and solicitation for proposals for competitive negotiations, that
the award of multiple contracts is in the best interest of the city, provided
its needs are met at a reasonable cost. A determination and notice to potential
offerors that multiple contracts may be awarded for any procurement shall not
preclude the award of a single contract for the procurement.
   (B)   Partial contracts. When it is determined after evaluation of
competitive bids or the close of competitive negotiations that acceptable bids
or offers have been received for only parts of the requirements of the
procurement, the following may occur:
      (1)   A contract may be awarded for the parts of the procurement for
which acceptable bids or offers have been received;
      (2)   All bids or offers may be rejected and a new invitation for bids or
request for proposals based on the same or revised terms, conditions, and
specifications may be issued; or
      (3)   All bids found unacceptable for parts of the procurement may be
rejected and an invitation for bids or request for proposals, based on the same
or revised terms, conditions, and specifications for the parts of the
procurement for which no acceptable bids were received may be issued.
§ 23.109 SURETIES AND BONDS; SUBMISSION OF COST OR PRICING DATA; INSPECTION OF
CONTRACTOR’S RECORDS AND PLACE OF BUSINESS
   (A)   Sureties and bonds.
      (1)   Bid bonds.
         (a)   Bidder's security shall be required for all competitive sealed
bidding for construction contracts when the price is estimated by the city to
exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00). Bidder’s security shall be a
bond provided by a surety company authorized to do business in this state, or
the equivalent in cash, in a form satisfactory to the city. Nothing herein
prevents the requirement of such bonds on construction contracts under twenty-
five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) when the circumstances warrant.
         (b)   Bidder’s security shall be in an amount equal to at least five
percent (5%) of the amount of the bid.
         (c)   When the invitation for bids requires that bidder security be
provided, noncompliance requires that the bid be rejected. However, the city
may set forth by regulation, exception to this requirement in the event of
substantial compliance.
         (d)   After the bids are opened, they shall be irrevocable for the
period specified in the invitation for bids. However, if a bidder is permitted
to withdraw his bid before award because of a mistake in the bid as allowed by
§
23.104(E), no action shall be had against the bidder or the bidder’s security.
(KRS 45A.430)
      (2)   Contract performance and payment bonds.
         (a)   When a construction contract is awarded in an amount in excess
of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), the following bonds shall be
furnished to the city, and shall become binding on the parties upon the award
of the contract:
            1.   A performance bond satisfactory to the city executed by a
surety company authorized to do business in this state, or otherwise supplied,
satisfactory to the city, in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of
the contract price as it may be increased; and
            2.   A payment bond satisfactory to the city, executed by a surety
company authorized to do business in this state, or otherwise supplied,
satisfactory to the city, for the protection of all persons supplying labor and
material to the contractor or his subcontractors for the performance of the
work provided for in the contract. The bond shall be in an amount equal to one
hundred percent (100%) of the original contract price.
         (b)   Nothing in this division shall be construed to limit the
authority of the city to require a performance bond or other security in
addition to those bonds, or in circumstances other than as specified in
division (2)(a) above, including, but not limited to, bonds for the payment of
taxes and unemployment insurance premiums.
(KRS 45A.435)
      (3)   Bond forms, filings, and copies.
         (a)   The city may promulgate by regulation the form of the bonds
required by divisions (A)(1) and (2) above, or it may adopt the form
established by the state under KRS 45A.175 to 45A.205.
         (b)   The city shall furnish a certified copy of a bond to any person
who requests such and pays the reasonable fee for such copy. The copy shall be
prima facie evidence of the contents, execution, and delivery of the original.
(KRS 45A.440)
   (B)   Cost or pricing data.
      (1)   A contractor shall submit cost or pricing data and shall certify
that, to the best of his knowledge and belief, the cost or pricing data
submitted was accurate, complete, and current as of a mutually determined
specified data prior to the date of:
         (a)   Pricing of any negotiated contract where the total contract
price is expected to exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), or such lesser
amount as may be prescribed by the city; or
         (b)   Pricing of any change order or contract modification which is
expected to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00), or such lesser
amount as may be prescribed by the city.
      (2)   Any contract, change, or modification thereto under which a
certificate is required shall contain a provision that the price to the city,
including profit or fee, shall be adjusted to exclude any significant sums by
which the city finds that such price was increased because the contractor-
furnished cost or pricing data which, as of the date agreed upon between the
parties, was inaccurate, incomplete, or not current.
      (3)   The requirement of this division need not be applied to contracts
where the price negotiated is based on adequate price competition, established
catalogue or market prices of commercial items sold in substantial quantities
to the general public, prices set by law or regulation, or in exceptional cases
where it is determined in writing that the requirements of this division may be
waived, and the reasons for such waiver are enumerated in the determination.
(KRS 45A.405)
   (C)   Inspection of contractor’s place of business; audit of records.
      (1)   The city may inspect the plant or place of business of a contractor
or any subcontractor under any contract awarded or to be awarded by the city.
      (2)   The city may audit the books and records of any person who has
submitted cost or pricing data under division (B) above, at any time until the
period of record retention as set forth in division (3) below has expired. The
right to audit hereunder shall only extend to those books and records
reasonably connected with cost or pricing data submitted under §
23.117 and such books and records shall be maintained by the contractor or
subcontractor for the period specified in division (3) below.
      (3)   The city shall be entitled to audit the books and records of a
contractor or any subcontractor under any negotiated contract or subcontract
other than a firm fixed-price type contract; however, this shall not limit the
right to audit as set forth in division (C)(2) above. Such books and records
shall be maintained by the contractor for a period of five (5) years from the
date of final payment under the prime contract any by the subcontractor for a
period of five (5) years from the date of final payment under the subcontract.
(KRS 45A.410)
§ 23.110 CONTRACT AWARDS NOT TO EXCEED APPROPRIATIONS
   (A)   No contract shall be awarded for an amount which exceeds the sum
budgeted and appropriated for the procurement by the legislative body of the
city. The city shall not award a contract for any procurement when the contract
price would exceed the funds appropriated for the procurement by the
legislative body.
   (B)   If all bids received in response to an invitation for bids exceed the
amount appropriated for the procurement and sufficient additional funds are not
authorized to permit an award to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder,
the city shall proceed with competitive negotiations in accordance with KRS
45A.375.
§ 23.111 FINAL PROCUREMENT DECISIONS TO BE IN WRITING
   As required in KRS 45A.355, every determination by an employee or official
of the city engaged in or responsible for the performance of any procurement
activity or function and constituting a final procurement action, or which is
required by KRS Chapter 45A or the provisions of this article, shall be made in
writing. Each determination shall be based on written findings that support the
determination and shall be signed by the employee making the determination.
§ 23.112 CONTRACT MODIFICATION, TERMINATION
   (A)   The city shall be authorized to provide, by appropriate clauses to
contracts for supplies or services of all types, for changes and modifications
to the contracts and providing for the method or methods of calculating the
costs of any decrease, increase, or other change in the contract price
resulting from the changes or modifications. The following provisions shall
apply to any changes:
      (1)   In contracts for the purchase of fixed amounts of commodities,
supplies, and equipment, increases in quantities in excess of ten percent (10%)
of the original quantity fixed by contract shall not be permitted unless the
invitation for bids or requests for proposals for competitive negotiation
informed prospective bidders or offerors that an increase in quantities might
be forthcoming.
      (2)   Increases in unit price shall not be permitted in contracts for
increased quantities, except as provided by a price escalation formula
authorized by the invitation for bids or requests for proposals for competitive
negotiations.
      (3)   All changes or modifications to contracts for the purchase of
commodities, supplies, equipment, and construction services shall be effected
by an advice of change order to the contract which shall be supported by a
written determination documenting the reason and basis for the change or
modification to the contract.
      (4)   A copy of the advice of change in order and the supporting
documentation relative to any change or modification to a contract shall be
filed and maintained in the contract file.
   (B)   Every contractor to whom a contract containing clauses authorizing
changes or modifications to the contract shall be deemed by acceptance of the
contract to have agreed to the changes or modifications of the contract as
provided herein.
   (C)   Any contractor who is determined, in writing, by the city to be in
breach of any of the terms and conditions of a contract may, in the discretion
of the city, be declared in default and the contract may be terminated for any
of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to perform the contract according to its terms, conditions,
and specifications;
      (2)   Failure to make delivery within the time specified or according to
a delivery schedule fixed by the contract;
      (3)   Late payment or nonpayment of bills for labor, materials, supplies,
or equipment furnished in connection with a contract for construction services
as evidenced by a mechanic’s lien filed pursuant to the provisions of KRS
Chapter 376, or letter of indebtedness received from creditors; or
      (4)   Failure to diligently prosecute the work under a contract for
construction service.
   (D)   The city shall not be liable for any further payment to a contractor
under a contract terminated for the contractor’s default after the date of the
default, except for commodities, supplies, equipment, or services delivered and
accepted on or before the date of default and for which payment had not been
made as of that date. The contractor or his surety, if a performance bond or
payment bond has been required under the contract, shall be jointly and
severally liable to the city for all loss, cost, or damage sustained as a
result of the contractor’s default. A contractor’s surety’s liability shall not
exceed the final sum specified in the contractor’s bond.
   (E)   The city shall be authorized to terminate, for its own convenience,
all contracts for the procurement of supplies and services when the city
determines, in writing, that termination will be in the best interest of the
government, and according to the following provisions:
      (1)   When it has been determined that a contract should be terminated
for the convenience of the city, the city is authorized to negotiate a
settlement with the contractor according to terms deemed just and equitable.
      (2)   Compensation to a contractor for lost profits on a contract
terminated for convenience of the city shall not exceed an amount proportionate
to the sum that the contractor’s total expected margin of profit on the
contract bore to the contract price, based on the total out-of-pocket expense
incurred by the contractor as of the date of termination of the contract. The
contractor shall have the burden of establishing the amount of compensation to
which he believes himself to be entitled by the submission of complete and
accurate cost data employed in submitting his bid or proposal for the contract,
and evidence of expenses paid or incurred in performance of the contract from
the date of award through the date of termination.
§ 23.113 VERIFICATION AND PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS
   (A)   Copies of records, specifications, procedures, and regulations
relating to purchasing shall be available to the public during normal business
hours, upon request, and at a cost not to exceed the cost of copying.
   (B)   The city may not disclose the following to the public or to a
prospective vendor’s competitors:
      (1)   Information furnished in response to a request by the city for
information necessary to determine a bidder’s responsibility, as provided in
KRS 45A.395.
      (2)   Information obtained from a prospective vendor during negotiations
which qualifies as confidential, technical information or trade secrets, or the
disclosure of which would violate patent rights or copyrights.
______________
Cross reference:
   Maintenance of records by city, see §
24.102
§ 23.114 GRANT REQUIREMENTS
   Nothing in these regulations shall be construed in such a manner as to
relieve the city of the responsibility to comply with any procurement
requirements imposed by any agency from which the city may receive funds,
including, but not limited to, state or federal agencies.
§ 23.115 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
   The city shall include as part of any invitation for bids or request for
proposals for supplies, equipment, or services, equal employment opportunity
language as may be required by local ordinance, KRS 45.570 through 45.640, and
the procurement requirements of any agency from which the city may receive
funds.
§ 23.116 DETERMINATION OF PREVAILING WAGE FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
   Pursuant to KRS Chapter 337, the city shall apply to the State Department of
Labor for a determination of the prevailing wage as required by law. This
information shall be included as part of any contract for construction services
where required by law, and shall be included where required by law in any
invitation for bids or request for proposals for any procurement of
construction services.
§ 23.117 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING
   (A)   The city may enter into an agreement for cooperative purchasing with
any other local public agency. When the contracting local public agency
contracts for supplies, services, or construction pursuant to KRS 45A.365,
45A.370, 45A.375, or 45A.380, all other parties to the agreement shall be
deemed to have complied with the provisions of those sections.
   (B)   Nothing in KRS 45A.345 through 45A.990 shall deprive the city from
negotiating with vendors for supplies where the supplies are the subject of a
price agreement with the state. However, no contract executed under this
section would authorize a price higher than is contained in the price agreement
with the state for the specific supplies.
_________________
Statutory reference:
   Cooperative purchasing, see KRS 45A.420
§ 23.118 RECEIPT REQUIRED TO PROCESS INVOICE FOR PAYMENT
   No invoice for goods or services shall be processed for payment without
proof of receipt by the city of the goods or services, which shall be in the
form of written attestation by the receiving department head or other
authorized city official.
§ 23.119 SALE OF SURPLUS, PERSONAL PROPERTY BELONGING TO CITY
   (A)   The city may sell or otherwise dispose of any personal property which
is not needed or has become unsuitable for public use, or which would be
suitable, consistent with the public interest, for some other use. A written
determination as to the need or suitability of any personal property of the
city shall be made, and the determination shall fully describe the personal
property; its intended use at the time of acquisition; the reasons why it is in
the public interest to dispose of the item; and the method of disposition to be
used. Surplus or excess personal property as described in this section may be
transferred, with or without compensation, to another governmental agency, or
it may be sold at public auction or by sealed bids in accordance with KRS
45A.365, or it may be sold as set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   In the event the city receives no bids for surplus or excess personal
property, either at public auction or by sealed bid, such property may be
disposed of in a manner consistent with the public interest, in any way deemed
appropriate by the city. In such instances, a written description of the
property, the method of disposal, and the amount of compensation, if any, shall
be made. Any compensation resulting from the disposal of surplus or excess
personal property shall be transferred to the General Fund of the city.
(KRS 45A.455(4))
§ 23.120 CITY EMPLOYEES FORBIDDEN TO PURCHASE PROPERTY SOLD BY CITY
   No employee of the city, his spouse, child, or parent shall be permitted to
bid on or to purchase any item of surplus or obsolete personal property
disposed of, sold, or conveyed under the terms of §
23.119.
______________
Cross reference:
   Ethics Code, see
Chapter 26
_________________
Statutory reference:
   Conflict of interest; gratuities and kickbacks; use of confidential
information, see KRS 45A.455
ARTICLE III. CHARITABLE DONATIONS
§ 23.200 DONATION POLICY
   A non-profit organization established and/or managed in the County of Butler
may solicit money, time or resources (hereafter "donation") from the City of
Morgantown to assist it in activities necessary to achieve goals and services
of the organization, subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Any applicant must be a 501(c)(3), (4), (7) or (8) non-profit
organization within the County of Butler and proof must be submitted of the
applicant's exemption with the application.
   (B)   The applicant must be in existence and operating within the County of
Butler for at least twelve (12) months prior to the date of application to the
city for a donation.
   (C)   The applicant must complete an application form as prescribed by the
City Council, as shown on Exhibit "A", attached to Ord. 2015-16 and made a part
hereof by this reference, and submit same to the City Hall Office no later than
March 15 of any calendar year for funding in the next fiscal year's budget.
   (D)   The applicant must demonstrate that it has provided direct delivery of
services to residents of the city within the year prior to their submittal of
the application.
   (E)   No donation will be considered for an activity which the City of
Morgantown could not independently engage.
   (F)   The city must have control over how, where and when any donation is
applied and the applicant must submit to financial oversight by the city in the
application of the donation. The application will be denied if either of the
foregoing is not strictly complied with.
   (G)   The donation and activities it supports must primarily benefit the
public of the City of Morgantown rather than the interests of a private entity
or person.
   (H)   The donation must be utilized only within the city limits of the City
of Morgantown.
   (I)   All monies given shall be placed in a separate account from other
monies controlled by the applicant. Proof of the establishment of a separate
account must be submitted to the city prior to disbursement of any funds to the
applicant.
   (J)   Specific projects, benefits, or line items must be presented in the
application, the monies allocated can only be used for those projects,
benefits, or line items as they were presented to the Council in the
application form. Donations made to organizations may not be used to fund
personnel salary.
   (K)   All receipts and expenditures must be available for review at any time
by the City Council. A representative of the organization must be available for
questioning if requested by the City Council at any time during the fiscal year
in which the funding was donated.
   (L)   The city will not donate to any religious organization or organization
affiliated with any religious entity.
   (M)   The city will not donate to any organization that engages in any
political activity, event, race or campaign or which routinely engages in
lobbying legislative bodies.
   (N)   The city will not donate to any organization listed as a hate crimes
organization.
   (O)   The city will not donate to any organization which regularly transacts
business with the city or which has a City Council member acting as an officer
or otherwise having executive authority.
   (P)   Upon the change of any condition required herein during the time
between application and disbursal by the city, the city reserves the right to
cancel the donation or allow the organization thirty (30) days to come back
into compliance.
   (Q)   Depending upon the characteristics of the project or event, the city's
participation may necessitate that appropriate insurance coverage be provided
by the applicant.
   (R)   Any one organization shall receive no more than a two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500) donation in a single fiscal year.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 11-12-15)
§ 23.201 REVIEW OF APPLICATION
   The City Council of the City of Morgantown shall schedule a review of
applications received, either at a regularly scheduled Council meeting or at a
special meeting scheduled for that specific purpose. The City Council in its
sole and exclusive discretion, shall determine which organizations are eligible
for funding in the next fiscal year's budget. At this meeting the City Council
shall establish a total dollar amount to be included within the upcoming budget
document. The City Council in its decision making process may or may not fund
any organization to a full, partial, or zero dollar amount.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 11-12-15)
§ 23.202 EMERGENCY FUNDING
   The City Council may with a supermajority vote (five (5) of the six (6)
members) vote to fund a donation to a qualifying organization during the fiscal
year after the due date of March 15. The organization shall submit the
completed application to City Hall specifically requesting emergency funding.
The City Council at its discretion may donate the monies if the fiscal year
budget permits the donation.
(Ord. 2015-16, passed 11-12-15)
CHAPTER 24: PUBLIC RECORDS
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
24.001   Definitions
ARTICLE II.   PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
   
24.100   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
24.101   Referral to proper custodian
   
24.102   Public records not immediately available
   
24.103   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
24.104   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
24.105   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
24.106   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
24.107   Public records protected from disclosure
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 24.001 DEFINITIONS
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “CITY.” The city government of this city.
   “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.” The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE” shall not include publication
or related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
program; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   “CUSTODIAN.” The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The “CUSTODIAN” having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk.
   “MECHANICAL PROCESSING.” Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder, or tape processor, or other automated device.
   “MEDIA.” The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microfilm,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.” The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his
actual personal custody and control. The “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN” of this city
shall be the Mayor.
   “PERSON.” A human being who makes a request for inspection of public
records.
   “PUBLIC AGENCY.” Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission, and committee; every school
district board, and municipal corporation; every city government agency,
including the policy-making board of an institution of education created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a “PUBLIC
AGENCY”, as defined in this section; a member or employee of a “PUBLIC AGENCY”,
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council, or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a “PUBLIC AGENCY” as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each “PUBLIC AGENCY” is defined in this section.
   “PUBLIC RECORDS.” All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, disks,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. “PUBLIC RECORDS” shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in KRS 61.870(1)(h) that are
not related to functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by state
or local authority nor any records that may be excluded by §
24.107.
   “REASONABLE FEE” or “FEE”. The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non-exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may, at its discretion, provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   “REQUEST.” An oral or written application by an person to inspect public
records of the city.
   “SOFTWARE.” The program code which make a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
examined from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency’s routines, and subroutines, such as translators and utility
programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited from
disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and an
outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
Statutory reference:
   Related definitions, see KRS 61.870
ARTICLE II. PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 24.100 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION
   (A)   As defined in §
24.001, and subject to the limitations set forth in §
24.107, any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of the city
shall make a request or complete a written application for such records at the
office of the City Clerk during regular office hours, except during legal
holidays. The application shall be hand-delivered, mailed, or sent via
facsimile to the City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with the open records law and the requested records are immediately available,
the custodian shall deliver the records for inspection. Suitable facilities
shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk for the inspection. No
person shall remove original copies of public records from the offices of any
public agency without the written permission of the official custodian of the
record.
   (C)   A resident of the Commonwealth may inspect public records:
      (1)   During the regular business hours of the city; or
      (2)   By receiving copies of the public records from the city through the
mail if the applicant’s residence or principal place of business is outside of
the county in which the city is located and he has precisely described public
records which are available within the city. If the resident of the
Commonwealth requesting the public records requests that the records be mailed,
the official custodian shall mail the copies upon receipt of all fees and the
cost of mailing.
(KRS 61.872(3))
   (D)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all public records not exempted by this
chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee as defined in §
24.001.
   (E)   Non-exempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Non-exempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copies in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (F)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than 8-1/2 inches x 11 inches in at least one (1) color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requester’s requirements, the public records may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
   (G)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of non-exempt public records are requested for commercial purposes, the
public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The public agency from which
copies of non-exempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement from the requester stating the commercial purpose
for which they shall be used, and may require the requester to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public
records.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requester was required by the public agency
pursuant to subsection (G) of this section; or
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical,
radio, or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly
allowed the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of
its publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission
for that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5))
   (I)   Online access to public records in electronic format, as provided
under this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency. If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license, or other agreement with
the agency, and may charge fees for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges;
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in subsection (G).
(KRS 61.874(6))
_________________
Statutory Reference:
   Record inspection regulations, see also KRS 61.872(1) and (2)
§ 24.101 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall so notify the applicant and shall
furnish the name and location of the custodian of the public record.
(KRS 61.872(4))
______________
Cross reference:
   Board of Ethics to act as custodian of its records, see §
26.401
§ 24.102 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records
not to exceed five (5) days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays)
from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is
given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the
public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 24.103 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies of the public records. However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 24.104 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five (5) days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify, in writing, the person making the request within the
five (5)-day period of its decision. Any agency response delaying, in whole or
in part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under the official custodian’s authority and shall
constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he shall proceed under
the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882. Upon the Attorney General’s request,
the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney General
reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or in part,
the request for inspection, the requesting party may institute appeal
proceedings within thirty (30) days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the
circuit court. In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request, or
if the city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney
General’s opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institute proceedings in
circuit court, the city shall notify the Attorney General of such action.
(KRS 61.880, 61.882)
§ 24.105 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
§ 24.106 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 24.107 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially
disclosed to an agency or required by an agency to be disclosed to it,
generally recognized as confidential or proprietary, which if opened would
permit an unfair commercial advantage to competitors of the entity that
disclosed the records.
         (b)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially disclosed
to an agency or required by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally
recognized as confidential or proprietary, which are compiled and maintained
(i) in conjunction with an application or the administration of a loan or
grant; (ii) in conjunction with an application for or the administration of
assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154; (iii) in conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or (iv) for the grant or review
of a license to do business. These exemptions shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licensees necessary to do business or
to expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division
(A)(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination for employment, or academic examination
before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
      (12)   Public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under KRS 131.190.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapter 45A or 56. This
exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be resolicited.
      (16)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of:
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos.
      (18)   Records confidentially maintained by a law enforcement agency in
accordance with a wellness program, including an early intervention system, as
described in state law.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not distinctive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
24.103.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records of the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and
preliminary and other supporting documentation. A municipal employee,
applicant, or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the
right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing
criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under subsection
(A)(17) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
CHAPTER 25: PUBLIC MEETINGS
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
25.001   Definitions
ARTICLE II.   PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
   
25.100   Meetings open to the public
   
25.101   Requirements for closed sessions
   
25.102   Public meeting schedules
   
25.103   Special meetings
   
25.104   Video teleconferences
   
25.105   Enforcement
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 25.001 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “ACTION TAKEN.” A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   “MEETING.” All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   “MEMBER.” A member of the governing body of a public agency. “MEMBER” does
not include employees of licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   “PUBLIC AGENCY.” Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission, and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act in the legislative or executive
branch of government; any entity when the majority of its governing body is
appointed by a “PUBLIC AGENCY”, as defined by this section; a member or
employee of a “PUBLIC AGENCY”, a state or local officer, or any combination
thereof; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee,
advisory committee, council, council or agency, except for a committee of a
hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the purpose of evaluating the
qualifications of public agency employees, established, created, or controlled
by a “PUBLIC AGENCY” as defined in this section; an interagency body of two (2)
or more public agencies where each “PUBLIC AGENCY” is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   “VIDEO TELECONFERENCE.” One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
ARTICLE II. PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 25.100 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee’s, member’s, or student’s right to a public hearing
if requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency’s
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS61.878(1)(i). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy;
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
and
      (11)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee, or
other similar group established under KRS Chapter 45A or 56 or other state or
local law, to select a successful bidder for award of a state or local
contract.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one (1) or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of
the members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the
purpose of avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall
be subject to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussions between individual
members where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on
specific issues.
(KRS 61.810)
_________________
Cross reference:
   Council meetings, see §
20.208
   Board of Ethics meetings, see §
26.401
§ 25.101 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
25.100(A)(1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provisions of §
25.100 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final matters may be discussed at a closed session other than
those publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
25.100(A) paragraphs (2), (3), (4), but only so far as (4) relates to students,
(5), (6), (7), (8), (9), and (10) are excluded from the requirements of
subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 25.102 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES
   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and places
which are convenient to the public. In considering locations for public
meetings, the agency shall evaluate space requirements, seating capacity, and
acoustics. Public agencies shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings by
ordinance, order, resolution, bylaws, or by whatever other means may be
required for the conduct of business of the public agency. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 25.103 SPECIAL MEETINGS
   (A)   Except as provided by division (F) of this section, the following
requirements shall govern special meetings of public agencies:
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting.
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting, and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
The public agency may periodically, but not more often than once a calendar
year, inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (1) by
transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public agency members and
media organizations that have filed a written request with the public agency
indicating their preference to receive electronic mail notification in lieu of
notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or mail. The written request
shall include the electronic mail address or addresses of the agency member or
media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency’s
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
division (B). The public agency shall make a reasonable effort, under emergency
circumstances, to notify the members of the agency, media organizations which
have filed a written request pursuant to this section, and the public of the
emergency meeting. At the beginning of the emergency meeting, the person
chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for the record the emergency
circumstances preventing compliance with the notice requirements of this
section. These comments shall appear in the minutes. Discussion and action at
the emergency meeting shall be limited to the emergency for which the meeting
is called.
(KRS 61.823)
_________________
Cross reference:
   Special Council meetings, §
20.208
§ 25.104 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference meeting shall:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as
appropriate;
      (2)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference;
      (3)   Provide specific information on how any member of the public or
media organization may view the meeting electronically; and
      (4)   In any case where the public agency has elected to provide a
physical location, or in any circumstance where two (2) or more members of the
public agency are attending a video teleconference meeting from the same
physical location, precisely identify a primary physical location of the video
teleconference where all members can be seen and heard and the public may
attend in accordance with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
Members of the public agency who participate in a video teleconference shall
remain visible on camera at all times that business is being discussed.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
   (E)   If a regular meeting is changed to a video conference, the meeting
shall remain a regular meeting if the meeting occurs on the same date and time
as originally scheduled and the public agency follows the provisions of KRS
61.823(4) to provide a notice that meets the requirements of subsections (B)(2)
to (4) of this section.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 25.105 ENFORCEMENT
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
CHAPTER 26: ETHICS CODE
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
26.001   Title
   
26.002   Findings
   
26.003   Purpose; authority
   
26.004   Definitions
ARTICLE II.   STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
   
26.100   Conflicts of interest
ARTICLE III.   NEPOTISM
   
26.200   Nepotism permitted
ARTICLE IV.   FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
   
26.300   Requirement for filing statement
   
26.301   When to file statements; amended statements
   
26.302   Form of financial disclosure statement
   
26.303   Control and maintenance of statement
   
26.304   Noncompliance with filing requirement
ARTICLE V.   ENFORCEMENT
   
26.400   Board of Ethics
   
26.401   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
26.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 26.001 TITLE
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Morgantown Code
of Ethics”.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.002 FINDINGS
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts.
   (B)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed and to apprise its officials of the behavior which is
expected of them while conducting their public duties.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.003 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct for local government officials shall be clear,
consistent and uniform in their application, and to provide local officials and
employees with advice and information concerning possible conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.004 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   “BUSINESS ASSOCIATE.” Includes the following:
   (A)   A private employer;
   (B)   A general or limited partnership, or a general or limited partner
within the partnership;
   (C)   A corporation that is family-owned or in which all shares of stock are
closely held, and the shareholders, owners and officers of such a corporation
are either city government officers, their spouses or members of their
immediate families;
   (D)   A corporation, business association or other business entity in which
the city government officer serves as a compensated agent or representative.
   “BUSINESS ORGANIZATION.” Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship,
firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed
individual, holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust,
professional service corporation, or any legal entity through which business is
conducted for profit.
   “CANDIDATE.” Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city
office. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a notification
and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party under KRS 118.105,
118.115, 118.325 or 118.760.
   “CITY.” The City of Morgantown Government Agency.
   “CITY GOVERNMENT AGENCY.” The Mayor and City Council.
   “CITY GOVERNMENT OFFICER.” Any person who is elected to any city government
office or any person who serves as a member of the governing body of any city
government.
   “COUNCIL.” The Morgantown City Council.
   “FAMILY MEMBER.” Immediate family.
   “HE", "HIS" or "HIM.” All reference shall include the masculine and
feminine.
   “MATERIAL CHANGE.” Any change in a person's net worth which meets or exceeds
the limits set forth in the financial section of this chapter that he feels
would greatly influence his decision making capacity.
   “MEMBER OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY.” An unemancipated child residing in an
individual's household or a person claimed by the individual or individual's
spouse as a dependent for tax purposes. A spouse is specifically not included
in this definition.
   “SUSTANTIAL CONFLICT.” That degree of close relationship which an individual
feels would greatly influence his ability to carry out his official duties in
the best interest of the public.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
ARTICLE II. STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 26.100 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
   (A)   No city government officer shall have an interest in a business
organization or engage in any business, transaction, or professional activity
which is in substantial conflict with the proper discharge of his duties in the
public interest.
   (B)   No city government officer shall use or attempt to use his official
position to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages for himself, his
spouse, any member of his immediate family, a business associate or a business
organization in which he has an interest.
   (C)   No city government officer shall act in his official capacity in any
matter where he, his spouse, a member of his immediate family, a business
associate, or a business organization in which he has an interest, has a direct
or indirect financial or personal involvement that might reasonably be expected
to impair his objectivity or independence of judgment.
   (D)   No city government officer shall undertake any employment or service,
compensated or not, which might reasonably be expected to prejudice his
independence of judgment in the exercise of his official duties.
   (E)   No city government officer shall be prohibited from giving or
receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of public service,
commercially reasonable loans made in the ordinary course of the lender's
business, or reasonable hosting, including travel and expenses, entertainment,
meals or refreshments furnished in connection with public events, appearances,
ceremonies or fact finding trips related to official city government business.
   (F)   No city government officer shall use, or allow to be used, any
information, not generally available to the members of the public, which he
receives or acquires in the course of and by reason of his city government
office for the purpose of securing financial gain for himself, his spouse, any
member of his immediate family, any business associate or any business
organization in which he has an interest.
   (G)   No city government officer shall represent any person or party other
than the local government in connection with any cause, proceeding, application
or other matter pending before any agency in the local government in which he
serves.
    (H)   No city government officer shall be deemed in conflict with these
provision by reason of his participation in the enactment of any ordinance,
resolution or other matter required to be voted upon or which is subject to
executive approval or veto if no material or monetary gain accrues to him, his
spouse, a member of his immediate family, a business associate, or any business
organization in which he has an interest to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other entity similarly situated.
   (I)   No elected city government officer shall be prohibited from making an
inquiry for information or providing assistance on behalf of a constituent, if
no fee, reward or other thing of value is promised to be given to or accepted
by the officer, his spouse, a member of his immediate family, business
associate or business organization in which he has an interest whether directly
or indirectly, in return therefore.
   (J)   Nothing shall prohibit any city government officer, his spouse, any
member of his immediate family, business associate or business organization in
which he has an interest from representing themselves in negotiations or
proceedings concerning their own interests.
   (K)   If a city government officer, his spouse, a member of his immediate
family, a business associate, or a business organization in which he has an
interest, shall have any private interest, financial or otherwise, directly or
indirectly, in any contract or other matter pending before the city government
or before any department or agency of the city government, the city government
officer shall disclose such interest to the city government and shall
disqualify himself from participating in any decision or vote relating thereto.
   (L)   If a spouse, member of an immediate family or business associate of a
city government officer, or a business organization in which the city
government officer has an interest represents any person or party in connection
with any cause, proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city
government, the city government officer shall disclose such representation and
shall be disqualified from taking any official action related thereto.
   (M)   No city government officer shall disclose any information or
discussion taken by the city government agency in closed session pursuant to
the Kentucky Open Records Act (KRS 61.870 or 61.884) until such time as the
disclosure of said information may be made without compromising the interests
of the city government.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
26.999
ARTICLE III. NEPOTISM
§ 26.200 NEPOTISM PERMITTED
   The city government agency has no problem with nepotism. Any family member
of a city government officer employed by the city government shall not be
compensated more than others in like job positions, and all family members
employed by the city must meet any applicable job qualifications and
requirements.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
ARTICLE IV. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 26.300 REQUIREMENT FOR FILING STATEMENT
   (A)   The following individuals shall be required to file a financial
disclosure statement:
      (1)   Elected city government officers;
      (2)   Candidates for office.
   (B)   The financial disclosure statement shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name of filer;
      (2)   Current business address, business telephone number and home
address of filer;
      (3)   Title of filer’s public office or office sought;
      (4)   Occupations of filer and spouse;
      (5)   Positions held by the filer, his spouse and any member of the
filer's immediate family in any business organization from which the filer, his
spouse or any member of the filer's immediate family received income in excess
of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) during the preceding calendar year, and
the name, address and telephone number of the business organization;
      (6)   Name and address of each source of income of the filer and his
spouse from within the Commonwealth of Kentucky which exceeded five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) during the preceding calendar year;
      (7)   Name and address of each business organization located within the
Commonwealth of Kentucky in which the filer, his spouse or any member of the
filer's immediate family had an interest of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
or more during the preceding calendar year;
      (8)   The location of all commercial property within Butler County, in
which the filer, his spouse or any member of the filer's immediate family had
an interest of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or more during the preceding
calendar year.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of every individual required to file a
financial disclosure statement to secure the proper form for the disclosure
statement from the office of the county court clerk. The county court clerk is
under no duty to distribute the financial disclosure statement forms to any
individual who may be required to file same.
   (D)   Each financial disclosure statement shall be signed and dated by the
individual filing the same.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.301 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS
   (A)   Pursuant to the Memorandum of Agreement between the city and the
Barren River Area Development District, the individual financial disclosure
statements required by §
26.300 shall be filed with the Barren River Regional Board of Ethics, c/
o Barren River Area Development District Records Administrator no later than 3:
00 p.m. March 1, 1995. All subsequent statements of financial interest shall be
filed no later than 3:00 p.m. on March 1 of each year thereafter, provided
that:
      (1)   An individual newly elected to a position for which a financial
disclosure statement is required under §
26.300 shall file his initial financial disclosure statement no later than
thirty (30) days after the date of assuming the position.
      (2)   A candidate for city government office shall file his initial
financial statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the
person becomes a candidate.
   (B)   The Barren River Regional Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable
extension of time for filing a financial disclosure statement for good cause
shown.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.302 FORM OF FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
   The financial disclosure statement shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Barren River Regional Board of Ethics. The Board shall deliver to the
county court clerk a copy of the form for each officer required to file the
statement, no later than February 15 of each year. The failure to deliver the
form shall not relieve an individual of the obligation to file the financial
disclosure statement.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.303 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENT
   (A)   The Barren River Regional Board of Ethics shall be the "official
custodian" of the financial disclosure statements. The financial disclosure
statement shall be maintained by the Board, or the Records Administrator
designated by the Board as "custodian" of public documents, and shall be
available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A financial disclosure statement shall be retained by the Board, or
the "custodian", for a period of five (5) years after filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after an individual ceases
to hold a position with the city government for which a financial disclosure
statement is required under §
26.300, the Board shall cause to be destroyed any financial disclosure
statements or copies of those statements filed by the individual.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after any election at which
a candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board
shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of
those statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
______________
Cross reference:
   Public records, see
Chapter 24
§ 26.304 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT
   (A)   The Barren River Board of Ethics, or the Records Administrator, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a financial disclosure
statement who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement or files a statement in a form other than prescribed by the Board.
The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall establish a
date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied and shall advise the
person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the financial disclosure
statement or who fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing
identified in the notice under subsection (A) within the time period
established in the notice shall be guilty of a civil offense and shall be
subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in an amount not to exceed twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) per day, up to a maximum total civil fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00). Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may
be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the
offender fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time. All pay
and benefits of a city government officer shall be withheld until a non-
complying individual is in compliance with the filing requirements. All fines
imposed and collected may be used to offset the costs of any related
proceedings.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he knows to contain false information or intentionally omits required
information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
26.999
ARTICLE V. ENFORCEMENT
§ 26.400 BOARD OF ETHICS
   (A)   Pursuant to the Memorandum of Agreement between the city and the
Barren River Area Development District establishing the Barren River Regional
Board of Ethics, the Barren River Regional Board of Ethics shall have all
responsibility, power and authority to enforce this Code of Ethics including
but not limited to receiving complaints alleging possible violations of the
Code of Ethics, issuing opinions in response to inquiries relating to the Code
of Ethics, investigating possible violations of the Code of Ethics, and
imposing penalties provided for in the Code of Ethics, and all authority for
the establishment of procedures for formation and maintenance of the Barren
River Board of Ethics appropriate thereto are hereby delegated provided:
      (1)   The Board shall comply with all terms and conditions as set forth
in the act establishing a Code of Ethics for cities;
      (2)   Any hearings or related procedures shall comply with the Kentucky
Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of Evidence;
      (3)   Any regulations adopted by the Board for governing its procedures
shall be consistent with the Kentucky Open Records Law;
      (4)   The city shall bear its proportionate share of any costs for
investigations, hearings, preparation of findings and the issuance of any
advisory opinions by the Boards and;
      (5)   No member of the Regional Board of Ethics shall hold a position in
any local government or be subject to the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
§ 26.401 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED
   (A)   No individual shall be subject to reprisal for filing report of a
violation of the Code of Ethics. No city government officer shall directly or
indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official authority or influence in any
manner whatsoever which tends to discourage, restrain, deter, prevent,
interfere with, coerce, punish or discriminate against any person who in good
faith reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise brings to the attention of any
person or entity, any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if a city government officer discloses information which he
knows:
      (1)   To be false or which is disclosed with reckless disregard for its
truth or falsity.
      (2)   Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
______________
Cross reference:
   Records protected from disclosure, see §
24.107
   Penalty for violation, see §
26.999
§ 26.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any individual who is found by the Barren River Board of Ethics to have
violated any provision of the standards of conduct shall be deemed guilty of a
civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board of Ethics
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), which may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the
penalty within a prescribed period of time. All fines imposed and collected may
be used to offset the costs of any related proceedings.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any individual who is found by the Board of Ethics to have violated
any provisions of the standards of conduct shall forfeit to the applicable city
agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain which the individual is
determined by the Board to have realized as a result of the violation. The
amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture
within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In the event that the Board of Ethics finds that any elected official
is guilty of a violation of the standards of conduct of this chapter, the
violation may be used as evidence in any action or procedure for removal from
office instituted pursuant to applicable state law.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 12-8-94)
CHAPTER 27: TAXATION
   
27.001   Taxation schedule
   
27.002   Purpose
   
27.003   Discount for early payment
 
   
27.999   Penalty
§ 27.001 TAXATION SCHEDULE
   The city levies ad valorem taxes. A schedule of ordinances by passage date
is included in the Tables of Special Ordinances, Taxation,
Table 7, of this code.
§ 27.002 PURPOSE
   Taxes levied by the city shall be paid into the General Fund for the
operating expenses of the city.
(Ord. 92-13, passed 10-1-92)
§ 27.003 DISCOUNT FOR EARLY PAYMENT
   Payments received on or before December 1 will be allowed a two percent (2%)
discount of the total tax bill.
(Ord. 92-13, passed 10-1-92; Am. Ord. 2000-07, passed 9-15-00)
§ 27.999 PENALTY
   All taxes not paid by January 1 shall be subject to a penalty of two percent
(2%). If the tax bill is paid after March 31, a penalty of six percent (6%)
will be added.
(Ord. 92-13, passed 10-1-92; Am. Ord. 96-06, passed 9-19-96)
CHAPTER 28: HUMAN RESOURCES
   
28.001   Adoption of certain employment plans
   
28.002   Participation in C.E.R.S. authorized
   
28.003   Blood borne pathogen exposure control plan
   
28.004   Training incentive program
§ 28.001 ADOPTION OF CERTAIN EMPLOYMENT PLANS
   (A)   The classification plan, compensation plan and policies and procedures
attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter are hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set forth in this code and shall be maintained on file in
the office of the City Clerk. The classification plan, compensation plan and
policies and procedures adopted by reference in this section shall be the
system of employment administration for the city.
   (B)   The classification plan, compensation plan and policies and procedures
may be waived, altered or suspended only by a change of ordinance.
(Ord. 91-01 §§ 1, 2, 1991; Amended during 1993 codification; Am. Ord. 2000-03,
passed 4-13-00)
______________
Cross reference:
   Employment Policy Amendments, See Tables of Special Ordinances,
Table 5
§ 28.002 PARTICIPATION IN C.E.R.S. AUTHORIZED
   (A)   The city is authorized to participate in the County Employees
Retirement System effective July 1, 1991, and all eligible regular full-time
officers and employees of the city are hereby authorized and directed to comply
with the statutory requirements of this retirement system.
   (B)   All city employees whose duties require an average of one hundred
(100) hours during each working month are considered as regular full-time
employees for county retirement purposes, including Council members and utility
commissioners. Excluded are employees who are classified as temporary, part-
time and seasonal workers, as defined in KRS 78.510(21) of the County Employees
Retirement Laws.
(Ord. 91-05 (part), 1991)
§ 28.003 BLOOD BORNE PATHOGEN EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN
   The Occupational Health and Safety Act administered under 29 C.F.R. 653,
655, 657 has amended and expanded protection of employees potentially exposed
to blood borne pathogens and 29 C.F.R. § 1910.1030 is being added under
authority of 29 C.F.R. 653 which requires employers to protect potentially
exposed employees from infection with pathogens that may be transmitted by
contact with blood or other body secretions.
(Ord. 93-03, passed 4-1-93)
§ 28.004 TRAINING INCENTIVE PROGRAM
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, the terms below shall have the
following meanings:
      “ADMINISTRATOR.” The Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training
Center.
      “EXCESS HOURS.” Credit hours earned beyond fifteen (15) during a single
calendar year.
      “QUALIFYING COURSE.” Any training, seminar, educational or learning event
that provides instruction or information that is relevant to the duties and
functions of city government and city officials and that has been approved by
the administrator.
      “TRAINING UNIT.” Fifteen (15) clock hours of attendance or participation
in qualifying course during a calendar year.
   (B)   Adoption of a City Officials Training Program; Application. In
accordance with House Bill 119 of the 2011 General Assembly, as codified in KRS
Chapter 64, the city hereby adopts and establishes a City Officials Training
Program to make available incentive payments as specified by this section to
the elected city officials, including the Mayor and all members of the City
Council for obtaining education and training as required under the provisions
of this section.
   (C)   Incentive Payment Amount Required Training Participation.
      (1)   Each city official eligible for participation in the City Officials
Training Program shall receive training incentive payments of five hundred
fifty dollars ($550.00) for completion of each training unit during his or her
continuous service as a city official within the city. The city official shall
only receive training incentive payments for a maximum of four (4) training
units. The city official shall not be awarded more than one (1) training unit
per calendar year.
      (2)   The city official may continue to receive training incentive
payments for four (4) training units in each calendar year following the fourth
year, provided that the officer continues to earn a training unit each
subsequent calendar year.
      (3)   The failure of a city official to obtain a training unit during any
calendar year shall disqualify the officer from receiving any training
incentive payments for the calendar year and the city official shall lose any
previously accumulated training units earned during previous calendar years.
      (4)   Any city official earning excess hours during a calendar year shall
be permitted to carry forward a maximum of ten (10) hours to apply to the
earning of a training unit in the following calendar year.
      (5)   Training incentive payments shall be made to a city official
presenting proof of completion of a training unit for a calendar year within
sixty (60) days of the conclusion of the calendar year.
   (D)   Policy Regarding Payment or Reimbursement for Training Courses.
Subject to the constraints and the appropriations established by the city’s
annual budget, the city shall consider paying the cost of attendance or
participation in advance of a city official’s attendance or participation in
the qualifying course if property application is made to the City
Administrator. Alternatively, and subject the constraints and appropriations
established by the city’s annual budget, the city shall consider reimbursing a
city official for the cost of attendance or participation in a qualifying
course upon presentation of proof to the City Administrator that the official
has received credit for the course.
   (E)   Administration of City Officials Training Program.
      (1)   The City Officials Training Program for the city shall be
administered by the Kentucky League of Cities City Officials Training Center,
which shall be responsible for approving courses as a qualifying under the
terms of this section, shall maintain records of attendance and participation,
and shall notify the city when a city official earns a training unit and the
number of training units earned by a city official during his or her continuous
service as a city official within the city.
      (2)   The administrator shall evaluate and approve courses as qualifying
for credit based on the relation of the course to the operation of city
government. In addition to other courses which may be approved as qualifying
courses by the administrator, courses that provide instruction or the statutory
duties of cities and city officials; intergovernmental relationship, municipal
finance and budgeting, municipal taxation, ethics, open records, open meetings,
economic development, or municipal police powers shall be approved as
qualifying courses under this section. The administrator shall require the
submission of the course or conference agenda, curriculum, name of the
providers, and other course materials to determine a course should be approved
as a qualifying course.
      (3)   A city official shall submit proof of attendance or participation
in a qualifying course to the administrator. A city official shall submit the
course name, date, location, name of the instructor or provider, and sufficient
proof of attendance or participation in the qualifying course before the
administrator shall award credit. The administrator shall not award credit to a
city officials for attendance or participation in a qualifying course that is
not, in the administrator’s opinion, substantially different from another
course the city official attended or participated in during the same calendar
year.
      (4)   The administrator shall maintain records that reflect each of the
courses and hours completed by the city official and shall provide it to each
city official upon request. The administrator shall, within thirty (30) days of
the close of the calendar year, provide written or electronic certification to
each participating city official of completed courses and hours, and shall, if
applicable, certify the completion of a training unit and total number of
accumulated training units. Upon receipt, a city official shall present a copy
of the certification of the completion of the training unit and the total
accumulated training units to the city to receive his or her training incentive
payments.
   (F)   Status of Incentive Payment.
      (1)   Training incentive payments do not constitute wages under KRS
Chapter 337, creditable compensation under the County Employees Retirement
System under KRS Chapter 78, or compensation for the purposes of setting
maximum compensation or modification of compensation under KRS Chapter 83A, and
may be repealed or modified by the city at any time.
      (2)   The training incentive payment amount established in this section
shall not be adjusted by any index reporting changes to consumer prices or any
other method to account for inflation.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-9-17)
TITLE 3: PUBLIC WORKS/UTILITIES
   
CHAPTER 30   SEWER
   
CHAPTER 31   CROSS CONNECTION PREVENTION
   
CHAPTER 32    SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 30: SEWER
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
30.001   Purpose; policy
   
30.002   Definitions
   
30.003   Abbreviations
   
30.004   Administration
ARTICLE II.   Use of Public Sewers
   
30.100   Mandatory sewer connection
   
30.101   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
30.102   Compliance with local, state and federal laws
   
30.103   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer
   
30.104   Substances which interfere
ARTICLE III.   Private Wastewater Disposal
   
30.200   Public sewer not available
   
30.201   Requirements for installation
ARTICLE IV.   Building Sewers and Connections
   
30.300   Permits
   
30.301   Prohibited connections
   
30.302   Design and installation
   
30.303   Inspection
   
30.304   Maintenance
ARTICLE V.   (RESERVED)
ARTICLE VI.   Pretreatment Program Administration
   
30.500   General sewer use requirements
   
30.501   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
30.502   Individual wastewater discharge
   
30.503   Individual wastewater discharge permit issuance
   
30.504   Reporting requirements
   
30.505   Compliance monitoring
   
30.506   Confidential information
   
30.507   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
30.508   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
30.509   Judicial enforcement remedies
   
30.510   Supplemental enforcement action
   
30.511   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
   
30.512   Wastewater treatment rates
   
30.513   Miscellaneous provisions
ARTICLE VII.   FEES
   
30.600   Purpose
   
30.601   Types of fees
   
30.602   Charges
ARTICLE VIII.   Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
30.700   Right to enter premises
   
30.701   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
30.702   Access to easement
   
30.703   Safety
ARTICLE IX.   Enforcement
   
30.800   General
   
30.801   Enforcement actions
 
   
30.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 PURPOSE; POLICY
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission and
enables the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403).
The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publicly owned
treatment works that will pass through the publicly owned treatment works,
inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be incompatible with
the publicly owned treatment works;
      (3)   To protect both publicly owned treatment works personnel who may be
affected by wastewater and sludge in the course of their employment and the
general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the publicly owned treatment works;
      (5)   To enable the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission to comply
with its National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit conditions,
sludge use and disposal requirements, and any other federal or state laws to
which the publicly owned treatment works is subject.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the publicly owned treatment
works. The chapter authorizes the issuance of individual wastewater discharge
permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement activities;
establishes administrative review procedures; requires user reporting; and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs
resulting from the program established herein.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. I § A, 1991; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.002 DEFINITIONS
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated:
   “ACT” or “THE ACT.” The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.
   “APPROVAL AUTHORITY.”  The Kentucky Department for Environmental Protection,
Energy and Environmental Protection Cabinet and/or authorized representative
thereof.
   “AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.”
   (A)   If the user is a corporation:
      (1)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
      (2)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operating
facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions
that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the
explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations,
and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure long-term
environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure
that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete
and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
   (B)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship; a general partner
or proprietor, respectively.
   (C)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility; a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
   (D)   The individuals described in subsections (A) through (C), above, may
designate a duly authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to The City of Morgantown Commission Board.
   “BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES” or “BMPs.” Schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to
implement the prohibitions listed in § 30.500(A)(1) and (2) (40 C.F.R. 403.5(a)
(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and
practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste
disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
   “BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).” The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five (5) days at 20o C. usually expressed as a concentration (e.g. mg/l).
   “BUILDING SEWER.”  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal, also called “house extension.”
   “BUILDING SEWER PERMIT.”  As set forth in “Building Sewers and Connections”
(§§
30.300 through
30.304).
   “BYPASS.”  The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
   “CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD” or “CATEGORICAL STANDARD.” Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that
apply to a specific category of users and that appear in 40 C.F.R. Chapter I,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   “CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER.” An industrial user subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   “CITY.” The city of Morgantown, its City Council or commission, or the
commission board or the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission or the
superintendent or his/her representative.
   “CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND” or “COD.” A measure of the oxygen required to
oxidize all compounds, both organic and inorganic, in water.
   “COMBINED SEWER.” Any conduit carrying both sanitary sewage and storm water
or surface water.
   “COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.” Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and
fecal coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants that the POTW is
designed to treat and, in fact, does treat to the degree required by the POTW’s
NPDES/KPDES permit.
   “COMPOSITE WASTEWATER SAMPLE.”  A combination of individual samples of water
or wastewater taken at selected intervals, or based on quantity of flow for
some specified period, to minimize the effect of variability of the individual
sample. Individual samples may have equal volume or may be proportioned to the
flow at the time of the sampling.
   “CONTROL AUTHORITY.”  The City of Morgantown Commission Board or the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
   “COOLING WATER.” The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   “COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.”  The health department for Butler County.
   “DAILY MAXIMUM.” The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
   “DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT.” The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of a concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   “DILUTION STREAM.”  Any wastewater not generated by a process regulated for
the specific pollutant by a categorical standard under 40 C.F.R., Subchapter N.
   “DIRECT DISCHARGE.” The discharge of treated or untreated wastewaters
directly to the waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   “EASEMENT.” An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   “ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY” or “EPA.” The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division
Director, the Regional Administrator, or other duly authorized official of said
agency.
   “EQUIPMENT.”  All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   “EXISTING SOURCE.” Any source of discharge that is not a "New Source."
   “FEDERAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.”  Federal regulations for pretreatment of
industrial wastewater under 40 C.F.R., Subchapter N and any applicable
regulations, as amended.
   “GARBAGE.” The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   “GRAB SAMPLE.” A sample which is taken from a waste stream without regard to
the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed fifteen
(15) minutes.
   “HOLDING TANK WASTE.”  Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   “INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.” All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined in this section.
   “INDIRECT DISCHARGE” or “DISCHARGE.” The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source.
   “INDUSTRIAL USER.” A source of indirect discharge.
   “INDUSTRIAL WASTES.” The wastewaters from industrial or commercial processes
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   “INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT.” The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to
be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
   “INTERCEPTOR.” A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous and undesirable matter from domestic wastes to discharge
into the sewer system or drainage system by gravity. “INTERCEPTOR” as defined
herein is commonly referred to as a grease, oil or sand trap.
   “INTERFERENCE.”  A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
therefore, is a cause of a violation of the City of Morgantown Utilities
Commission NPDES permit or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal
in compliance with any of the following statutory/regulatory provisions or
permits issued thereunder, or any more stringent state or local regulations: §
405 of the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, including Title II commonly
referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic
Substances Control Act; and the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries
Act.
   “LOCAL LIMIT.” Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the City
of Morgantown Utilities Commission upon industrial or commercial facilities to
implement the general and specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R.
403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   “MAXIMUM DAILY CONCENTRATION.” The maximum concentration per day of a
pollutant based on the analytical results obtained from a twenty-four (24) hour
composite sample.
   “MAXIMUM MONTHLY AVERAGE CONCENTRATION.” The maximum monthly average
concentration is the arithmetic mean of all samples tested during the month.
   “MAY.” Is permissive.
   “MEDICAL WASTE.” Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   “MONTHLY AVERAGE.” The sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that
month.
   “MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT.” The highest allowable average of "daily discharges"
over a calendar month, calculated, as the sum of all "daily discharges"
measured during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges"
measured during that month.
   “NATIONAL (or KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM” or “NPDES/
KPDES PERMIT.” A permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. §
1332), or a permit issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under this authority
and referred to as KPDES.
   “NATURAL OUTLET.”  Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   “NEW SOURCE.”
   (A)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is
(or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act that will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
      (1)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed,
at a site at which no other source is located; or
      (2)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
   (B)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection (A)(2) or (3) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
   (C)   Construction of a new source as defined under this subsection has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
      (1)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program;
         (a)   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
         (b)   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
      (2)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
subsection.
   “NONCONTACT COOLING WATER.” Water used for cooling that does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   “OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES.”  All annual operation and maintenance
expenses including replacement cost related directly to operating and
maintaining the sewage works as shown by annual audit.
   “PASS THROUGH.” A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
   “PERSON.” Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local government
entities.
   “pH.”  A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   “POLLUTANT.”  Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical
wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   “POLLUTION.”  The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and/or radiological integrity of water.
   “POTW TREATMENT PLANT.”  The portion of the publicly owned treatment works
(POTW) designed to provide treatment to wastewater.
   “PRETREATMENT.” The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   “PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.”  Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   “PRETREATMENT STANDARDS” or “STANDARDS.” Pretreatment standards shall mean
prohibited discharge standards, categorical pretreatment standards, and local
limits.
   “PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS” or “PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.” Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
30.500(A).
   “PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.” The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half (½) inch in any dimension.
   “PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).” A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by of the City of Morgantown
Utilities Commission. This definition includes any devices or systems used in
the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or
industrial wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey
wastewater to a treatment plant.
   “PUBLIC SEWERS.”  A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or
public utility. In general, the public sewer shall include the main sewer in
the street and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer
on private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority.
   “REPLACEMENT.”  Expenditure for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   “SANITARY SEWER.” A sewer that carries liquid and waterborne wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
   “SEPTIC TANK WASTE.” Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   “SEWAGE.”  Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, etc.).
   “SEWAGE SYSTEM” or “WORKS.”  All facilities for collecting, transporting,
pumping, treating and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage
system and POTW.
   “SEWER.” A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   “SEWER USER CHARGES.”  A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement, or such works.
   “SHALL.”  Is mandatory.
   “SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).” Except as provided in divisions (C) and
(D) of this section, a significant industrial user is:
   (A)   An industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
   (B)   An industrial user that:
      (1)   Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or more
of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
      (2)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent (5%)
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant; or
      (3)   Is designated as such by of the City of Morgantown Utilities
Commission on the basis that it has a reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard, or
requirement.
   (C)   The City of Morgantown Utilities Commission may determine that an
industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards is a non-
significant categorical industrial user rather than a significant industrial
user on a finding that the industrial user never discharges more than one
hundred (100) gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical wastewater (excluding
sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless
specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The industrial user, prior to the City of Morgantown Utilities
Commission finding, has consistently complied with all applicable categorical
pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (2)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required in §
30.504(N)(2) (see 40 C.F.R. 403.12(q)), together with any additional
information necessary to support the certification statement; and
      (3)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
   (D)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection (B) of
this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, The City
of Morgantown Utilities Commission may at any time, on its own initiative or in
response to a petition received from an industrial user, and in accordance with
procedures in 40 C.F.R. 403.8(f)(6), determine that such user should not be
considered a significant industrial user.
   “SIGNIFICANT VIOLATION.” A violation that meets one (1) or more of the
following criteria:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharged limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements taken
during a six (6)-month period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit
or the average limit for the same pollutant parameter;
   (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty- three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements of each
pollutant parameter taken during a six (6)-month period equal or exceed the
product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the
applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all
other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum or
longer- term average) that the superintendent determines has caused, alone or
in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through (including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
other order issued hereunder for starting construction, completing
construction, or attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide, within thirty (30) days after the due date,
required reports such as baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90)-day
compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance
with compliance schedule.
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
   (H)   Any other violation or group of violations which the superintendent
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
   “SLUG LOAD” or “SLUG DISCHARGE.” Any discharge at a flow rate or
concentration, which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge
standards in § 30.500(A). A slug discharge is any discharge of a non-routine,
episodic nature, including but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-
customary batch discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause
interference or pass through, or in any other way violate the POTW's
regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
   “STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC).” A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, U.S. Bureau of the Budget, 1972.
   “STATE.”  The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   “STORM DRAIN” or “STORM SEWER.” A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, surface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   “STORM WATER.”  Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   “SUPERINTENDENT.” The person designated by the City of Morgantown Utilities
Commission to supervise the operation of the POTW, and who is charged with
certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter. The term also means a duly
authorized representative of the superintendent.
   “SURCHARGE.” A charge for service in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charge, for those users whose contribution contains Biochemical
Oxygen Demand (BOD). Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), suspended solids (SS) or
ammonia-nitrogen (N-NH) in concentrations which exceed limits specified herein
for such pollutants.
   “SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS).” Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in “Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater” and referred to as non-filterable
residue.
   “TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS” or “SUSPENDED SOLIDS.” The total suspended matter
that floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   “TOXIC POLLUTANT.”  Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency under the provisions of CWA Section 307(a) or other Acts.
   “UNPOLLUTED WATER.”  Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effects or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   “USER” or “INDUSTRIAL USER.”  A source of indirect discharge.
   “USER CHARGE.”  The charge levied on all users, including but not limited
to, persons, firms, corporations, or governmental entities that discharge,
cause, or permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   “WASTEWATER.”  Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   “WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT.” As set forth in Article VI of this
chapter.
   “WASTEWATER FACILITIES.”  The structures, equipment, and processes required
to collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   “WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.” An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating domestic wastewater and sludges. Sometimes used synonymously as “waste
treatment plant” or “sewage treatment plant”.
   “WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT” or “TREATMENT PLANT.” That portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
   “WATERCOURSE.” A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water
either continuously or intermittently.
   “WATERS OF THE COMMONWEALTH.”  All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water
courses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation system,
drainage system and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the Commonwealth or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. I § B, 1991; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.003 ABBREVIATIONS
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
   ADMI    -    American Dye Manufacturers Institute
   BOD    -       Biochemical Oxygen Demand
   BMP      -   Best Management Practice
   BMR      -   Baseline Monitoring Report
   CFR       -    Code of Federal Regulations
   CIU      -   Categorical Industrial User
   COD      -   Chemical Oxygen Demand
   CWA      -   Clean Water Act of 1979
   EPA      -   Environmental Protection Agency
   gpd      -   Gallons per day
   IU      -   Industrial User
   KPDES   -   Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   l      -   Liter
   mg      -   Milligram
   mg/l      -   Milligrams per liter
   NPDES    -   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   NSCIU   -   Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User
   POTW   -      Publicly Owned Treatment Works
   RCRA   -      Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
   SIC      -   Standard Industrial Classification
   SIU      -   Significant Industrial User
   SNC      -   Significant Noncompliance
   SWDA   -      Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. § 6901, et seq.)
   TSS       -   Total Suspended Solids
   USC      -   United States Code
(Ord. 91-11 Art. I § C, 1991; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.004 ADMINISTRATION
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the Superintendent may be delegated by the Superintendent
to a duly authorized City of Morgantown Utilities Commission employee.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
ARTICLE II. USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 30.100 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby
required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within thirty (30) days after
date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within one
hundred (100) feet of the property line.
   (B)   It is unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in
Subsection (A), except as provided for in “Private Wastewater Disposal”
(Article III). The existence within the city, wherever the services of the city
sanitary sewage collection, treatment, and disposal facilities are available,
or may hereafter be made available, of septic tanks, seepage laterals, privies,
earth pits, cesspools, sanitary waste vaults, sewage drainage fields, private
sewage disposal systems, or any other such facilities or works for the
disposition of sanitary sewage wastes other than the facilities of the city, is
hereby declared to be a menace to the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens and inhabitants of the city and is hereby determined and
declared to constitute a public nuisance. The existence of such facilities as
toilets, sinks, wash basins, showerbaths, bathtubs, any commercial or
industrial machinery or device producing a liquid waste product, etc., in or
upon any improved property or premises in the city where the facilities of the
city's sewage collection, treatment and disposal system are available or may
hereafter be made available is similarly declared to be a menace to the public
health and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants, unless the
facilities are connected to the sewage collection, treatment and disposal
system. The superintendent may prescribe the type and manner of connection to
the facilities and may require that each connection be supervised and inspected
by an authorized and qualified agent of the city sewer department.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer system in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and removed.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. II § A, 1991)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
30.999
§ 30.101 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city or into any sewer which
connects to the storm sewer system of the city any objectionable wastewater or
industrial wastes.
   (B)   It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter. No provision of this
chapter shall be construed to relieve the owner of a discharge to any natural
outlet of the responsibility for complying with applicable state and federal
regulations governing such discharge.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. II § B, 1991)
_______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
30.999
§ 30.102 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977 and
subsequent amendments.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. II § C, 1991)
_________________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
30.999
§ 30.103 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged through any
leak, defect, or connection any unpolluted waters such as stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sanitary
sewer, building drain, or building plumbing. The superintendent or his
representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or
outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks, or defects to
building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying such
water to the building sewer. Such waters shall not be removed through the dual
use of a sanitary drain sump or a sump pump to building sanitary sewer.
Discharge of such waters by a manual switch-over from sanitary sewer to storm
drainage will not be an acceptable method of separation. In case both storm and
sanitary sewage are present, separate drainage or pumping systems shall be
included.
   (B)   Stormwater, groundwater and all other unpolluted drainage may be
discharged to such sewers as are used as storm sewers approved by the
superintendent. Under no circumstances shall sanitary sewage be discharged to a
storm sewer.
   (C)   The owner(s) of any building sewers having such connections, leaks, or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. II § D, 1991)
§ 30.104 SUBSTANCES WHICH INTERFERE
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation or
performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users of
a POTW whether or not the user is subject to Federal Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or any other federal, state or local pretreatment standards or
requirements. A user shall not contribute the following substances to any POTW:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall a waste stream exhibit a
closed cup flashpoint of less than one hundred forty (140) degrees Fahrenheit
(sixty (60) degrees Centigrade) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. §
261.21. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited, gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and any other
substances which have a closed cup flashpoint of one hundred forty (140)
degrees Fahrenheit (sixty (60) degrees Centigrade) or less, and any substance
which the city, state or EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard
to the sanitary sewer system;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5 or higher than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property(s) capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the POTW;
   (C)   Any slug load or pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants,
released at a flow or concentration that will cause interference with the
POTW's operation;
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities;
   (E)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds one hundred four
(104) degrees Fahrenheit (forty (40) degrees Centigrade);
   (F)   Any pollutant(s) which, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, produce toxic gases, vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity
that may cause acute worker health and safety problems;
   (G)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scum to be unsuitable for reclamation
and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the POTW is
pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under Section 405 of the
Act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used;
   (H)   Any substance which causes the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES permit,
sludge disposal permit or the water quality standards of the receiving stream;
   (I)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through at the POTW;
   (J)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the superintendent.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. II § E, 1991)
_______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
30.999
ARTICLE III. PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 30.200 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
Article II of the chapter, the building sewer shall be connected, until the
public sewer system is available, to a private wastewater disposal system
complying with the provisions of applicable local and state regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city. When
it becomes necessary, the sludge may be disposed of only as approved by the
city, by operators licensed by the city for such purposes.
   (C)   No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable local, state
or federal regulations.
   (D)   Industries with current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted
discharge points provided they are in compliance with the conditions of the
permit.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. III § A, 1991)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
30.999
§ 30.201 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or state regulations. Before commencement of
construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain
a written permit issued by the county health department after approval of the
system by the local and state authorities, if required. The application for the
permit shall be made on a form furnished by the county health department which
the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the county health department.
   (B)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local
and state authorities, if required. These authorities shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. III § B, 1991)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
30.999
ARTICLE IV. BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 30.300 PERMITS
   (A)   There are two (2) classes of building sewer permits required: (1) for
residential and (2) for service to commercial, industrial and other non-
domestic establishments. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city.
   (B)   Applicants for service to commercial and industrial establishments
shall be required to furnish information about all waste producing activities,
wastewater characteristics and constituents. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent or his agent. Details regarding
commercial and industrial permits include, but are not limited to, those
required by this chapter. Permit and inspection fees shall be paid to the city
at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   Users shall notify the superintendent of the POTW of any proposed new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any proposed change in the volume or
character of the wastewater being discharged to the POTW a minimum of thirty
(30) days prior to the change. The superintendent may deny or condition this
new introduction or change based upon the information submitted in the
notification.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. IV § A, 1991)
________________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
30.999
§ 30.301 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS
   No person shall make connections of roof downspouts, basement wall seepage
or floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources
of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such
connections which already exist on the effective date of this article shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within sixty (60) days of the effective
date of this article. The owner(s) of any building sewers having such
connections, leaks or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of
such sources. Pipes, sumps and pumps for such sources of water without presence
of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to the public sanitary
sewer.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. IV § B, 1991)
_______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
30.999
§ 30.302 DESIGN AND INSTALLATION
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining written permit from the superintendent as required by
Article IV of this chapter.
   (B)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and
inspection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (C)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
sewer from the building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer.
   (D)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and tested by the superintendent, to meet
all requirements of this chapter. All others must be sealed to the
specifications of the superintendent.
   (E)   Building sewers shall conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   The minimum size of a building sewer shall be four (4) inches;
      (2)   The minimum depth of a building sewer shall be eighteen (18)
inches;
      (3)   Four (4) inch building sewers shall be laid on a grade greater than
one-eighth (1/8) inch per foot. Larger building sewers shall be laid on a grade
that will produce a velocity when flowing full of at least two (2.0) feet per
second;
      (4)   Slope and alignment of all building sewers shall be neat and
regular;
      (5)   Building sewers shall be constructed only of (a) cast iron soil
pipe with compression joints; (b) Schedule 40 polyvinyl chloride pipe with
solvent welded or with rubber compression joints; or (c) such other materials
of equal or superior quality as may be approved by the superintendent. Under no
circumstances will cement mortar joints be acceptable;
      (6)   A cleanout shall be located five (5) feet outside of the building
and one (1) at each change of direction of the building sewer which is greater
than forty-five (45) degrees. Additional cleanouts shall be placed not more
than seventy-five (75) feet apart in horizontal building sewers of four (4)-
inch nominal diameter and not more than one hundred (100) feet apart for larger
pipes. Cleanouts shall be extended to or above the finished grade level
directly above the place where the cleanout is installed. A “T” (tee) or “Y”
(wye) and one-eighth (1/8) bend shall be used for the cleanout base. Cleanouts
shall not be smaller than four (4) inches on a four (4)-inch pipe;
      (7)   Connections of building sewers to the public sewer system shall be
made the appropriate existing wye or tee branch using compression type
couplings or collar type rubber joint with corrosion resisting or stainless
steel bands. Where existing wye or tee branches are not available, connections
of building services shall be made by either removing a length of pipe and
replacing it with a wye or tee fitting or cutting a clean opening in the
existing public sewer and installing a tee-saddle or tee-insert of a type
approved by the superintendent. Where connections are made with pipe of
different inside or outside diameter, proper watertight gasketed or sleeved
transition connections shall be used. All such connections shall be made
gastight and watertight;
      (8)   The building sewer may be brought into the building below the
basement floor when gravity flow from the building to the sanitary sewer is at
a grade of one-eighth (1/8) per foot or more if possible. In cases where
basement or floor levels are lower than the ground elevation at the point of
connection to the sewer, adequate precautions by installation of check valves
or the backflow prevention devices to protect against flooding shall be
provided by the owner. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low
to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such
building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the
building sewer at the expense of the owner;
      (9)   The methods to be used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing,
testing, backfilling the trench or other activities in the construction of a
building sewer that have not been described above shall conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city or to the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and Water Pollution Control Federal Manual of
Practice No. 9. Any deviation from the described procedures and materials must
be approved by the superintendent before installation;
      (10)   An installed building sewer shall be gastight and watertight.
   (F)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (G)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, basement drains or other sources of surface
or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. IV § C, 1991)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
30.999
§ 30.303 INSPECTION
   (A)   The sewer connection and all building sewers from the building to the
public sewer main line shall be inspected and subject to testing before the
underground portion is covered by the superintendent or his authorized
representative.
   (B)   The applicant for discharge shall notify the superintendent when the
building sewer and connection are ready for inspection.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. IV § D, 1991)
________________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
30.999
§ 30.304 MAINTENANCE
   Each individual property owner or user of the POTW shall be entirely
responsible for the maintenance of the building sewer located on private
property. The maintenance will include repair or replacement of the service
line as deemed necessary by the superintendent to meet specifications of the
city.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. IV § E, 1991)
ARTICLE V. (RESERVED)
ARTICLE VI. PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
§ 30.500 GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
   (A)   Prohibited Discharge Standards.
      (1)   General Prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
      (2)   Specific Prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
         (a)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140 degrees F (60 degrees C) using the test methods specified in 40
C.F.R. 261.21.
         (b)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.5, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment.
         (c)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case
solids greater than 0.25 inch (0.635 cm) in any dimension.
         (d)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW.
         (e)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65°C) or
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104 degrees F (40 degrees C).
         (f)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
         (g)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
         (h)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Superintendent in accordance with §
30.501(D).
         (i)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance or repair.
         (j)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission NPDES
permit.
         (k)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
         (l)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the Superintendent.
         (m)   Sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes.
         (n)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized, by the
Superintendent in an individual wastewater discharge.
         (o)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail toxicity test.
         (p)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which
that might cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
         (q)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100mg/l.
         (r)   Wastewater causing two readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, of more than
ten percent (10%) or any single reading over twenty percent (20%) of the lower
explosive limit of the meter.
      (3)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
   (B)   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards. Users must comply with
the categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter
N, Parts 405-471.
      (1)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard, is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e).
      (2)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated, by the same standard, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e).
   (C)   State Pretreatment Standards. Users must comply with all State of
Kentucky pretreatment standards codified 401 K.A.R. 5:057 KPDES.
   (D)   Local Limits.
      (1)   The Superintendent is authorized to establish local limits pursuant
to 40 C.F.R. 403.5(c).
      (2)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against
pass through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing
in excess of the following daily maximum limit.
2.40  mg/1 arsenic
0.02  mg/1 cadmium
2.77  mg/1 chromium, Total
1.23  mg/1 chromium, Hexavalent
1.86  mg/1 copper
0.15  mg/1 cyanide
0.27  mg/1 lead
0.003 mg/1 mercury
2.79  mg/1 nickel
0.24  mg/1 selenium
0.63  mg/1 silver
8.00  mg/1 zinc
1400  mg/1 BOD*
1400  mg/l TSS*
100   mg/1 Total Oil & Grease*
 
* Higher limits may be allowed upon written authorization from the
superintendent. Concentrations above 250 mg/1 for BOD and/or TSS may be
surcharged. Total oil and grease concentrations above 25 mg/1 may be
surcharged.
      (3)   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
total metal unless indicated otherwise. The Superintendent may impose mass
limitations in addition to the concentration-based limitations above.
      (4)   The Superintendent may develop Best Management Practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits to implement local
limits and. the requirements of §
30.500(A).
   (E)   City of Morgantown Utilities Commission Right of Revision. The City of
Morgantown Utilities Commission reserves the right to establish, by ordinance
or in individual wastewater discharge permits more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this
article.
   (F)   Dilution. No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in
any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless
expressly authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement. The
Superintendent may impose mass limitations on users who are using dilution to
meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases when
the imposition, of mass limitations is appropriate.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.501 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
   (A)   Pretreatment Facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this article and shall achieve compliance with all
categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out
in §
30.500(A) within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state, or the
Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for
compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense.
Detailed plans describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to the
Superintendent before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans
and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from The City of
Morgantown Utilities Commission responsibility of modifying such facilities as
necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to The City of Morgantown Utilities
Commission under the provisions of this article.
   (B)   Additional Pretreatment Measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Superintendent may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user's compliance with the requirements of this article.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. An individual
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall
be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, and cleaned by the user at their expense.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
      (5)   In the maintenance of grease, oil and sand interceptors, the owner
(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate
means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates,
quantity and the means of disposal. The city may require reporting of such
information for their review. Any removal and hauling of the collected
materials not performed by the owner(s) personnel must be performed by
currently licensed waste disposal firms. Interceptors shall also comply with
applicable regulations of the Butler County Health Department.
   (C)   Accidental Discharge/Slug Discharge Control Plans. The Superintendent
shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan or other action to control slug discharges. The Superintendent may
require any user to develop, submit for approval, and implement such a plan or
take such other action that may be necessary to control slug discharges.
Alternatively, the Superintendent may develop such a plan for any user. An
accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine hatch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Superintendent of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
30.304(F); and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
   (D)   Hauled Wastewater.
      (1)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the Superintendent, and at such times as are established by the
Superintendent. Such waste shall not violate §
30.500 or any other requirements established by the City of Morgantown
Utilities Commission. The Superintendent may require septic tank waste haulers
to obtain individual wastewater discharge.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain individual wastewater discharge permits. The Superintendent may require
generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain individual wastewater
discharge. The Superintendent also may prohibit the disposal of hauled
industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject, to all
other requirements of this article.
      (3)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the Superintendent. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the Superintendent. The Superintendent may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The Superintendent
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
      (4)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste tracking form for
every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and. volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.502 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE
   (A)   Wastewater Analysis. When requested by the Superintendent, a user must
submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within
ten (10) days of the request. The Superintendent is authorized to prepare a
form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update this
information.
   (B)   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirement.
      (1)   No significant industrial user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW without first obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit from the
Superintendent, except that a significant industrial user that has filed a
timely application pursuant to §
30.502(C) may continue to discharge for the time period, specified therein.
      (2)   The Superintendent may require other users to obtain individual
wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
article.
      (3)   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual
wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this article and
subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
30.508 through
30.510. Obtaining an individual wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a
permittee of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment
standards or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state, and
local law.
   (C)   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permitting: Existing Connections. Any
user required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who was
discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the effective date of this
article and who wishes to continue such discharges in the future, shall, within
thirty (30) days after said date, apply to the Superintendent for an individual
wastewater discharge in accordance with §
30.502(E), and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue
after ninety (90) days of the effective date of this article except in
accordance with an individual wastewater discharge permit issued by the
Superintendent.
   (D)   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permitting: New Connections. Any user
required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit who proposes to
begin or recommence discharging into the POTW must obtain such permit prior to
the begriming or recommencing of such discharge. An application for this
individual wastewater discharge permit in accordance with §
30.502(E), must be filed at least thirty (30) days prior to the date upon which
any discharge will begin or recommence.
   (E)   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Application Contents.
      (1)   All users required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge
permit must submit a. permit application. The Superintendent may require users
to submit all or some of the following information as part of a permit
application:
         (a)   Identifying Information.
            1.   The name and address of the facility, including the name of
the operator and owner.
            2.   Contact information, description of activities, facilities,
and plant production processes on the premises.
         (b)   Environmental Permits. A list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
         (c)   Description of Operations.
            1.   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes;
            2.   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
            3.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
            4.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and
maximum per day);
            5.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge;
         (d)   Time and duration of discharges;
         (e)   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit;
         (f)   Flow Measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in §
30.500(B)(2) (40 C.F.R. 403.6(e)).
         (g)   Measurement of Pollutants.
            1.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources.
            2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
Superintendent, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated
process.
            3.   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
            4.   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and
shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
30.504(J). Where the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution
prevention alternative, the user shall submit documentation as required by the
Superintendent or the applicable standards to determine compliance with the
standard.
            5.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out in § 50.504(K).
         (h)   Any requests for a monitoring waiver (or a renewal of an
approved monitoring waiver) for a pollutant neither present nor expected to be
present in the discharge based on §
30.504(D)(2) (40 C.F.R. 403.12(e)(2)).
         (I)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the
Superintendent to evaluate the permit application.
      (2)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and
will be returned to the user for revision.
   (F)   Application Signatories and Certifications.
      (1)   All wastewater discharge permit applications, user reports and
certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of the
user and contain the certification statement in §
30.504(N)(1).
      (2)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to the Superintendent prior to
or together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
      (3)   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical
industrial user by the Superintendent pursuant to the definition of Publicly
Owned Treatment Works in §
30.002 must annually submit the signed certification statement in §
30.504(N)(2).
   (G)   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions. The Superintendent
will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional
information. Within sixty (60) days of receipt of a complete permit
application, the Superintendent will determine whether to issue an individual
wastewater discharge permit. The Superintendent may deny any application for an
individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.503 INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE
   (A)   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration. An individual
wastewater discharge permit shall be issued for a specified time period, not to
exceed five (5) years from the effective date of the permit. An individual
wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five (5)
years, at the discretion of the Superintendent. Each individual wastewater
discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
   (B)   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents. An individual
wastewater discharge permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Superintendent to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
      (1)   Individual wastewater discharge permits must contain:
         (a)   A statement that indicates the wastewater discharge permit
issuance date, expiration date and effective date; see §
30.503(A).
         (b)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable without prior notification to the City of Morgantown Utilities
Commission in accordance with §
30.503, and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of
the existing wastewater discharge permit.
         (c)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards.
         (d)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants (or best management practice) to be monitored, sampling location,
sampling frequency, and sample type based on federal, state, and local law.
         (e)   The process for seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant
neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge in accordance with
§
30.504(D)(2).
         (f)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance
beyond that required by applicable federal, state, or local law.
         (g)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary.
         (h)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Superintendent (§
30.504(D)(2)) must be included as a condition in the user's permit.
      (2)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not
be limited to, the following conditions:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
         (c)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill
control plans or other special conditions including management practices
necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or nonroutine
discharges;
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         (e)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
         (f)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
         (g)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater
discharge permit, does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for
compliance with all applicable federal and state pretreatment standards,
including those which become effective during the term of the individual
wastewater discharge permit; and
         (h)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent to
ensure compliance with this article, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (C)   (1)   Permit Modification.
      (2)   The Superintendent may modify an individual wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
         (a)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
         (b)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user's
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
         (c)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or
permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
         (d)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a
threat to The City of Morgantown Utilities Commission POTW, The City of
Morgantown Utilities Commission personnel, or the receiving waters;
         (e)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual
wastewater discharge permit;
         (f)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required
reporting;
         (g)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. 403.13;
         (h)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
         (I)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to
a new owner or operator where requested in accordance with §
30.503(E).
   (D)   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer.
      (1)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new
owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least ninety (90) days advance
notice to the Superintendent and the Superintendent approves the individual
wastewater discharge permit transfer. The notice to the Superintendent must
include a written certification by the new owner or operator which:
         (a)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate
intent to change the facility's operations and processes;
         (b)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
and
         (c)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
      (2)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the
individual wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility
transfer.
   (E)   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation.
      (1)   The Superintendent may revoke an individual wastewater discharge
permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to notify the Superintendent of significant changes to
the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
         (b)   Failure to provide prior notification to the Superintendent of
changed conditions pursuant to §
30.504(E);
         (c)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts in the wastewater discharge permit application;
         (d)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
         (e)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
         (f)   Refusing to allow the Superintendent timely access to the
facility premises and records;
         (g)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
         (h)   Failure to pay fines;
         (I)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
         (j)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
         (k)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
         (l)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
         (m)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this article.
      (2)   Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon
cessation of operations or' transfer of business ownership. All individual
wastewater discharge permits issued to a user are void upon the issuance of a
new individual wastewater discharge permit to that user.
   (F)   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit Reissuance. A user with an
expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply for individual
wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit
application, in accordance with §
30.502(E), a minimum of ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the user's
existing individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (G)   Regulation of Waste Received from Other Jurisdictions.
      (1)   If another municipality, or user located within another
municipality, contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Superintendent shall
enter into an intermunicipal agreement with the contributing municipality.
      (2)   Prior to entering into an agreement required by subsection (G)(1),
above, the Superintendent shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality:
         (a)   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharged
to the POTW by the contributing municipality;
         (b)   An inventory of all users located within the contributing
municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
         (c)   Such other information as the Superintendent may deem necessary.
      (3)   An intermunicipal agreement, as required by subsection (G)(1),
above, shall contain the following conditions:
         (a)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer
use ordinance which is at least as stringent as this article and local limits,
including required Baseline Monitoring Reports (BMRs) which are at least as
stringent as those, set out in §
30.500(D). The requirement shall specify that such ordinance and limits must be
revised as necessary to reflect changes made to The City of Morgantown
Utilities Commission ordinance or local limits;
         (b)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a
revised user inventory on at least an annual basis;
         (c)   A provision specifying which pretreatment implementation
activities, including individual wastewater discharge permit issuance,
inspection and sampling, and enforcement, will be conducted by the contributing
municipality; which of these activities will be conducted by the
Superintendent; and which of these activities will be conducted jointly by the
contributing municipality and the Superintendent;
         (d)   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Superintendent with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
         (e)   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
         (f)   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality's
discharge;
         (g)   A provision ensuring the Superintendent access to the facilities
of users located within the contributing municipality's jurisdictional
boundaries for the purpose of inspection, sampling, and any other duties deemed
necessary by the Superintendent; and
         (h)   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the
terms of the intermunicipal agreement.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.504 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
   (A)   Baseline Monitoring Reports.
      (1)   Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective
date of a categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative
decision on a category determination under 40 C.F.R. 403.6(a)(4), whichever is
later, existing categorical industrial users currently discharging to or
scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit to the Superintendent a report
which contains the information listed in division (2), below. At least ninety
(90) days prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources, and sources
that become categorical industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the Superintendent a report
which contains the information listed in division (2), below. A new source
shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable
categorical standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its
anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
      (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
         (a)   All information required in §§
30.502(E)(1)(a)1., (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c)1., and (E)(1)(f).
         (b)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The user shall provide the information required in §
30.502(E)(1)(g)1. through 4;
            2.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this subsection;
            3.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the
flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula in 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting
data shall be submitted to the control authority;
            4.   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
30.504(J);
            5.   The Superintendent may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures;
            6.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
         (c)   Compliance Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative as defined in §
30.002 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a. consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
         (d)   Compliance Schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided.
The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance
date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance
schedule pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in §
30.504(B).
         (e)   Signature and Report Certification. All baseline monitoring
reports must be certified in accordance with §
30.504(N)(1) and signed by an authorized representative as defined in §
30.002.
   (B)   Compliance Schedule Progress Reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by §
30.504(A)(2)(d):
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable Pretreatment Standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no
later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final
date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports to the Superintendent.
   (C)   Reports on Compliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline.
Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Superintendent a report containing the information described in §§
30.502(E)(1)(f) and (g) and
30.504(A)(2)(b). For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with tire-procedures in §
30.500(B), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
30.504(N)(1). All sampling will be done in conformance with §
30.504(K).
   (D)   Periodic Compliance Reports.
      (1)   Except as specified in §
30.504(D)(3), all significant industrial users must, at a frequency determined
by the Superintendent submit no less man twice per year (June and December or
on dates specified) reports indicating the nature, concentration of pollutants
in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the measured
or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period. In cases
where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a Best Management
Practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit
documentation required by the Superintendent or the pretreatment standard
necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
      (2)   The City of Morgantown Commission Board may authorize, an
industrial user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard to forego
sampling of a pollutant regulated by a categorical pretreatment standard if the
industrial user has demonstrated through sampling and other technical factors
that the pollutant is neither present nor expected to be present in the
discharge, or is present only at background levels from intake water and
without any increase in the pollutant due to activities of the industrial user,
(see 40 C.F.R. 403.12(e)(2)). This authorization is subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to
be present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility
provided, that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable
categorical standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
         (b)   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual wastewater discharge permit, but in no case
longer than five (5) years. The user must submit a new request for the waiver
before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual wastewater
discharge permit. See §
30.502(E)(1)(h).
         (c)   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
industrial user must provide data from at least one (1) sampling of the
facility's process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility
that is representative of all wastewater from all processes.
         (d)   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with §
30.002, and include the certification statement in §
30.504(N)(1) (40 C.F.R. 403.6(a)(2)(H)).
         (e)   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a
demonstration that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from
40 C.F.R. Part 136 with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant
was used in the analysis.
         (f)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Superintendent must be
included as a condition in the user's permit. The reasons supporting the waiver
and any information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the Superintendent for three (3) years after expiration of the
waiver.
         (g)   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the
user's permit by the Superintendent, the industrial user must certify on each
report with, the statement in §
30.504(N)(3) below, that there has been no increase in the pollutant in its
wastestream due to activities of the industrial user.
         (h)   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or
is expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user's
operations, the user must immediately: Comply with the monitoring requirements
of §
30.504(D)(1), or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by the
Superintendent, and notify the Superintendent.
         (I)   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical pretreatment standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical pretreatment standard.
      (3)   All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
30.504(N)(1).
      (4)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
      (5)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the Superintendent, using the procedures prescribed
in §
30.504(K), the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
   (E)   Reports of Changed Conditions. Each user must notify the
Superintendent of any significant changes to the user's operations or system
which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least
ninety (90) days before the change.
      (1)   The Superintendent may require the user to submit such information
as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
30.502(E).
      (2)   The Superintendent may issue an individual wastewater discharge
under §
30.503(G) or modify air existing wastewater discharge permit under §
30.503(D) in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (F)   Reports of Potential Problems.
      (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, a slug discharge or slug load, mat might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and
notify the Superintendent of the incident. This notification shall include the
location of the discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the user.
      (2)   Within five (5) days following such discharge, the user shall,
unless waived by the Superintendent, submit a detailed written report
describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the
user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve
the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which might be
incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of
any fines, penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this
article.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in subsection (F)(1), above. Employers shall ensure that
all employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
      (4)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the
Superintendent immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the
potential for a slug discharge.
   (G)   Reports from Unpermitted Users. All users not required to obtain an
individual wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the
Superintendent as the Superintendent may require.
   (H)   Notice of Violation/Repeat Sampling and Reporting. If sampling
performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the
Superintendent within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Superintendent within thirty (30) days
after becoming aware of the violation. Resampling by the industrial user is not
required if the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission performs sampling at
the user's facility at least once a month, or if the City of Morgantown
Utilities Commission performs sampling at the user between the time when the
initial sampling was conducted and the time when the user or the City of
Morgantown Utilities Commission receives the results of this sampling, or if
the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission has performed the sampling and
analysis in lieu of the industrial user.
   (I)   Notification of the Discharge of Hazardous Waste.
      (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. Part 261. Such notification must, include the name of the hazardous
waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and
the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges
more than one hundred (100) kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the
POTW, the notification also shall contain the following information to the
extent such information is known and readily available to the user: an
identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an
estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
wastestream discharged during that calendar month, and an estimation of the
mass of constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the
following twelve (12) months. All notifications must take place no later than
one hundred and eighty (180) days after the discharge commences. Any
notification under this subsection need be submitted only once for each
hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions must
be submitted under §
30.504(E). The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
30.504(A), (C), and (D).
      (2)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of subsection (I)(1),
above, during a calendar" month in which they discharge no more than fifteen
(15) kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more
than fifteen (15) kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month,
or of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. 261.30
(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during
which the user discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do
not require additional notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the Superintendent, the
EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous
waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within ninety (90) days of
the effective date of such regulations.
      (4)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
      (5)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance
not otherwise permitted to be discharged by this article, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
      (6)   The Superintendent may deny or condition the discharge of hazardous
waste to the POTW at any time.
   (J)   Analytical Requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed in accordance with the techniques
prescribed in 40 C.F.R. Part 136 and amendments thereto, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40 C.F.R. Part
136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in
question, or where the EPA determines that the Part 136 sampling and analytical
techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analyses shall be performed by using validated analytical methods or any other
applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested
by the Superintendent or other parties approved by EPA.
   (K)   Sample Collection. Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements
must be based on data obtained, through appropriate sampling and analysis
performed during the period covered by the report, based on data that is
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period.
      (1)   Except as indicated in subsections (K)(2) and (3) below, the user
must collect wastewater samples using twenty four (24)-hour flow-proportional
composite sampling techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the city, the samples must
be representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 C.F.R. Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a twenty four (24)-hour period may be
composited, prior to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and
sulfides the samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for
volatile organics and oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the
laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the
compositing procedures as documented, in approved EPA methodologies may be
authorized by the city, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with instantaneous limits.
      (2)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total
phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab
collection techniques.
      (3)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and ninety
(90)-day compliance reports required in §§
30.504(A) and
30.504(C) (40 C.F.R. 403.12(b) and (d)), a minimum of four (4) grab samples
must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and
volatile organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do
not exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the
Superintendent may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by §
30.504(D) (40 C.F.R. 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the industrial user is required
to collect the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance
by with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (L)   Date of Receipt of Reports. Written reports will be deemed to have
been submitted on the date postmarked. For reports, which are not mailed,
postage prepaid, into a mail facility serviced by the United States Postal
sendee, the date of receipt of the report shall govern.
   (M)   Recordkeeping. Users subject, to the reporting requirements of this
article shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this article, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements,
and documentation associated with Best Management Practices established under §
30.500(D)(3). Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three (3) years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the Superintendent.
   (N)   Certification Statements.
      (1)   Certification of Permit Applications, User Reports and Initial
Monitoring Waiver - The following certification statement is required to be
signed and submitted by users submitting permit applications in accordance with
§
30.502(G); users submitting baseline monitoring reports under §
30.504(A)(2)(e). Users submitting reports on compliance with the categorical
pretreatment standard deadlines under §
30.504(C). Users submitting periodic compliance reports required by §
30.504(A)(1) through (4) and users submitting an initial request to forego
sampling of a pollutant on the basis of §
30.504(D)(2)(d). The following certification statement must be signed by an
authorized representative as defined in §
30.002:
I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
      (2)   Annual Certification for Non-Significant Categorical Industrial
Users. A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by the Superintendent pursuant to §§
30.002 and
30.502(G)(3) must annually submit the following certification statement signed
in accordance with the signatory requirements in §
30.002. This certification must accompany an alternative report required by the
Superintendent:
Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40
C.F.R. _________, I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that
during the period from                     ,                     to
                   ,                    [months, days, year]:
(a)   The facility described as
                                                 [facility name] met the
definition of a Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User as described in 1.4
GG (3); [See 40 C.F.R. 403.3(v)(2)].
(b)   The facility complied with all applicable Pretreatment Standards and
requirements during this reporting period; and (c) the facility never
discharged more than 100 gallons of total categorical wastewater on any given
day during this reporting period.
This compliance certification is based on the following information.
______________________________________________________
______________________________________________________
      (3)   Certification of Pollutants Not Present. Users that have an
approved monitoring waiver based on §
30.504(D)(2) must certify on each report with the following statement that
there has been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream due to
activities of the user.
Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 C.F.R.            [specify
applicable National Pretreatment Standard part(s)], I certify that, to the best
of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of
                                            
______________________________________________ [list pollutant(s)] in the
wastewaters due to the activities at the facility since filing of the last
periodic report under §
30.504(D)(1).
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.505 COMPLIANCE MONITORING
   (A)   Right of Entry: Inspection and Sampling. The Superintendent shall have
the right to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the user is
complying with all requirements of this ordinance and any individual wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder. Users shall allow the
Superintendent ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of
any additional duties.
      (1)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Superintendent shall be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
      (2)   The Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the user's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
      (3)   The Superintendent may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated as the Superintendent deems necessary to ensure their
accuracy.
      (4)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the Superintendent and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Superintendent access to the
user's premises shall be a violation of this article.
   (B)   Search Warrants. If the Superintendent has been refused access to a
building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission
designed to verify compliance with this article or any permit or order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the
community, the Superintendent may seek issuance of a search warrant from the
appropriate state or local authorities.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.506 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, wastewater
discharge permit applications, individual wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from the Superintendent's inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent, that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets under applicable state law. Any such request must be asserted at
the time of submission of the information or data. When requested and
demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that such information should be
held confidential, the portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets
or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the public,
but shall be made available immediately upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics and other effluent data, as defined at 40
C.F.R. 2.302 shall not be recognized as confidential information and shall be
available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.507 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
   The Superintendent shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous
twelve (12) months, were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements. The term significant noncompliance
shall be applicable to all significant industrial users (or any other
industrial user that violates divisions (C), (D) or (H) of this section) and
shall mean:
   (A)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter taken during a six- (6-) month period exceed
(by any magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including
instantaneous limits as defined in §
30.500;
   (B)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six- (6-) month period equals or exceeds the
product of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by §
30.500 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   (C)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by §
30.500 (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative
standard) that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges. Interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Superintendent's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (E)   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge
permit or enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction,
or attaining final compliance;
   (F)   Failure to provide within forty-five (45) days after the due date, any
required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance
with categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring
reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   (G)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   (H)   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of Best
Management Practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely affect
the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.508 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
   (A)   Notification of Violation. When the Superintendent finds that a user
has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, an
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent may serve upon that
user a written Notice of Violation. Within ten (10) days of the receipt of such
notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted by the user to the Superintendent. Submission of such a plan in no
way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the Notice of Violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the Superintendent to take any action, including emergency actions
or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a Notice of Violation.
   (B)   Consent Orders. The Superintendent may enter into Consent Orders,
assurances of compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement
with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such documents shall include
specific action to be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a
time period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force
and effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
30.508(D) and (E) and shall be judicially enforceable.
   (C)   Show Cause Hearing. The Superintendent may order a user which has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the Superintendent and
show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the
proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that
the user show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user
as defined in §
30.002 and required by §
30.502(G)(1). A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the user.
   (D)   Compliance Orders. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent may issue an order to
the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into
compliance within a specified time. If the user does not come into compliance
within the time provided, sewer service may be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are installed and
properly operated. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to
address the noncompliance, including additional self monitoring and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the
sewer. A compliance order may not extend the deadline for compliance
established for a pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance
order relieve the user of liability for any violation, including any continuing
violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Cease and Desist Orders. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the user's past violations are
likely to recur, the Superintendent may issue an order to the user directing it
to cease and desist all such violations and directing the user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and
desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
   (F)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this article, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the Superintendent may fine such user in an amount not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000). Such fines shall be assessed on a per-
violation, per-day basis. In the case of monthly or other long-term average
discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of
violation.
      (2)   Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall, after thirty (30)
calendar days, be assessed an additional penalty of twenty percent (20%) of the
unpaid balance, and interest shall accrue thereafter at a rate of one percent
(1%) per month. A lien against the user's property shall be sought for unpaid
charges, lines, and penalties.
      (3)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request
for the Superintendent to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the
fine amount within seven (7) days of being notified of the fine. Where a
request has merit, the Superintendent may convene a hearing on the matter. In
the event the user's appeal is successful, the payment, together with any
interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to the user. The Superintendent
may add the costs of preparing administrative enforcement actions, such as
notices and orders, to the fine.
      (4)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (G)   Emergency Suspensions. The Superintendent may immediately suspend a
user's discharge, after informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension
is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge, which reasonably
appears to present, or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons. The Superintendent may also immediately suspend a
user's discharge, after notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an
endangerment to the environment.
      (1)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall
immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
Superintendent may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Superintendent
may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent that the period of endangerment has
passed, unless the termination proceedings in §
30.508(H) are initiated against the user.
      (2)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Superintendent prior to the date of any
show cause or termination hearing under §
30.508(C) or (H).
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   (H)   Termination of Discharge. In addition to the provisions in §
30.504(F), any user who violates the following conditions is subject to
discharge termination:
      (1)   Violation of individual wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §
30.500.
   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and
be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
30.508(C) why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option
by the Superintendent shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.509 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
   (A)   Injunctive Relief. When the Superintendent finds that a user has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this article, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Superintendent may petition through
the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission Attorney for the issuance of a
temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order,
or other requirement imposed by this article on activities of the user. The
Superintendent may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/
or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (B)   Civil Penalties.
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this article, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard, or requirement shall be liable
to the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission for a maximum civil penalty of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per day. In the case of a
monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for
each day during the period of the violation.
      (2)   The Superintendent may recover reasonable attorneys fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages Incurred
by the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (C)   Criminal Prosecution.
      (1)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
article, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder,
or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than
one (1) year, or both.
      (2)   A user who willfully or negligently introduces any substance into
the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a fine to exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per day per violation, or be subject to
imprisonment for not more than one (1) year, or both. This penalty shall be in
addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage
available under state law.
      (3)   A user who knowingly makes any false statements, representations,
or certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other
documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this article,
individual wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who
falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device
or method required under this article shall, upon conviction, be punished by a
fine of not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per violation, per
clay, or imprisonment for not more than twelve (12) months, or both.
      (4)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per day per violation,
or imprisonment for not more than three (3) years, or both.
   (D)   Remedies Nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this article are
not. exclusive. The Superintendent may take any, all, or any combination of
these actions against a noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment
violations will generally be in accordance with to the City of Morgantown
Utilities Commission enforcement response plan. However, the Superintendent may
take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
Superintendent is empowered to take more than one (1) enforcement action
against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.510 SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
   (A)   Penalties for Late Reports. A penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) may be
assessed to any user for each day that a report required by this article, a
permit or order issued hereunder is late, beginning five (5) days after the
date the report is due. Actions taken by the Superintendent to collect late
reporting penalties shall not limit the Superintendent's authority to initiate
other enforcement actions that may include penalties for late reporting
violations.
   (B)   Performance Bonds. The Superintendent may decline to issue or reissue
an individual wastewater discharge permit to any user who has failed to comply
with any provision of this article, a previous individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, unless such user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the
City of Morgantown Utilities Commission, in a sum not to exceed a value
determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
   (C)   Liability Insurance. The Superintendent may decline to issue or
reissue an individual wastewater discharge to any user who has failed to comply
with any provision of this article, a previous individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, unless the user first submits proof that it has obtained financial
assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its
discharge.
   (D)   Payment of Outstanding Fees and Penalties. The Superintendent may
decline to issue or reissue an individual wastewater discharge permit to any
user who has failed to pay any outstanding fees, fines or penalties incurred as
a result of any provision of this article, a previous individual wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder.
   (E)   Water Supply Severance. Whenever a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this article, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, water service to the user may be severed. Service will recommence,
at the user's expense, only after the user has satisfactorily demonstrated its
ability to comply.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.511 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, upset means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or
improper operation.
      (2)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (C), below, are met.
      (3)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the
Superintendent within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset if
this information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided
within five (5) days.
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (4)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (5)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on
any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (6)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited Discharge Standards. A user shall have an affirmative
defense to an enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the
general prohibitions in §
30.500(A)(1) or the specific prohibitions in §
30.500(A)(2)(c) through (r), excluding §
30.500(A)(2)(h) if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know,
that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
would cause pass through or interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission was regularly in compliance with
its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference, was in compliance with
applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section,
         (a)   Bypass means the intentional diversion of wastestrearns from any
portion of a user's treatment facility.
         (b)   Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to
property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      (2)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (C) and (D) of this section.
      (3)   Bypass Notifications.
         (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Superintendent, at least ten (10) days before the
date of the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within
twenty-four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of the time the user
becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description
of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates
and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it
is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The Superintendent may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within
twenty-four (24) hours.
      (4)   Bypass.
         (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Superintendent may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) of
this section.
         (b)   The Superintendent may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the Superintendent determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1) of this section.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.512 WASTEWATER TREATMENT RATES
   Reserved.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
§ 30.513 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
   Pretreatment charges and fees. The City of Morgantown Utilities Commission
may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and
operating the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission Pretreatment Program,
which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and. reviewing
monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (E)   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included in
division (B)) associated with the enforcement activity taken by the
Superintendent to address IU noncompliance; and
   (F)   Other fees as the City of Morgantown Utilities Commission may deem
necessary to carry out the requirements contained herein. These fees relate
solely to the matters covered by this article and are separate from all other
fees, fines, and penalties chargeable by the City of Morgantown Utilities
Commission.
   (G)   The City of Morgantown Utilities Commission may institute a surcharge
on waste streams that contain more the 250 mg/1 BOD and/or 250 mg/1 TSS. The
surcharge may be based on the pounds of BOD and/or TSS discharged. A surcharge
may also be placed on Total Oil and Grease discharge that exceed 25 mg/1. This
surcharge may also be based on the pounds of Total Oil and Grease discharged.
(Ord. 2014-01, passed 2-13-14)
ARTICLE VII. FEES
§ 30.600 PURPOSE
   This article provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW for
the implementation and conduct of the pretreatment program established herein.
The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in the city's schedule of
charges and fees.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. VII § A, 1991)
§ 30.601 TYPES OF FEES
   The city may adopt fees which may include the following:
   (A)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the city's
pretreatment program;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
   (D)   Fees for permit application;
   (E)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (F)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of excessive strength
conventional pollutants;
   (G)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained in this chapter;
   (H)   Fees for the connection of a discharger (residential or other). These
fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and are separate from
all other fees chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. VII § B, 1991)
§ 30.602 CHARGES
   Charges shall be comprised of a system of excessive strength surcharges and
a system of charges for debt services, operation and maintenance costs
including normal replacement costs.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. VII § C, 1991)
ARTICLE VIII. POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 30.700 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES
   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees and representatives
of the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state
regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties at any reasonable time for purposes of, but
not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing of
discharges to the public sewer system and inspection and copying of all records
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. VIII § A, 1991; Amended during 1993 codification)
§ 30.701 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city are authorized to
obtain information concerning character, strength and quantity of industrial
wastes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. VIII § B, 1991)
§ 30.702 ACCESS TO EASEMENT
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement and
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within such easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. VIII § C,1991)
§ 30.703 SAFETY
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
30.700, all duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the facility, and the company
shall be held blameless for any injury or death to the city employee. The city
shall secure the company against loss or damage to its property by city
employees and liability claims and demands for personal injury or property
damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. VIII § D, 1991)
ARTICLE IX. ENFORCEMENT
§ 30.800 GENERAL
   (A)   The city through the superintendent or his designee, to insure
compliance with this chapter, and as permitted through 40 C.F.R. Subchapter N,
§§ 401 through 471 and 401 KAR 5:055, Section 9 may take the following
enforcement steps against users in noncompliance with this chapter. The
remedies available to the superintendent include injunctive relief, civil and
criminal penalties, immediate discontinuance of discharges and/or water service
and the publishing of the list of significant violators annually. The
enforcement authority shall be vested in the superintendent of the POTW or his/
her designee.
   (B)   All violations of requirements of this chapter must be reviewed and
responded to by the superintendent or his representative. In general, the
superintendent shall notify the industrial user when a violation occurs. For
all violations, the superintendent shall receive an explanation and, as
appropriate, a plan from the industrial user to correct the violation within a
specific time period. If the violation(s) persist or the explanation and/or
plan are not adequate, the superintendent's response shall be more formal and
commitments or schedules, as appropriate, for compliance will be established in
an enforceable document. The enforcement response selected will be related to
the seriousness of the violation. Enforcement responses will be escalated if
compliance is not achieved expeditiously after the initial action. A
significant violation will require a formal enforcement action. The full scale
of enforcement actions will be detailed in the city's Pretreatment Program
Enforcement Response Plan.
§ 30.801 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS
   (A)   Informal notice. These actions include statements made to the
industrial user during sampling and/or inspection visits, telephone calls to
the appropriate company official, informal meetings, warning or reminder
letters. These informal notices shall be used for minor violations.
   (B)   Formal notice. These actions include the following:
      (1)   Notice of violation. Any person found to be violating any provision
of this chapter, wastewater discharge permit or any order issued hereunder
shall be served by the POTW superintendent with a written notice stating the
nature of the violation. The offender must permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Administrative orders/fines.
         (a)   Any person who, after receiving a notice of violation, shall
continue to discharge in violation of this chapter or is determined to be a
chronic or persistent violator, shall be ordered to appear before the
superintendent. At said appearance, a compliance schedule will be given to the
violating user and a civil fine assessed. The fine shall be determined on a
case-by-case basis which shall consider the type, severity, duration and number
of violations, severity of impact on the POTW, impact on human health, user's
economic benefit from the violation, past history of the user and good-faith
efforts made by the user. The fine shall be a non-arbitrary but appropriate
amount.
         (b)   Users desiring to dispute such fines shall file with the
superintendent a request for the city to reconsider the fine within ten (10)
days of being notified of the fine. The city shall convene a hearing on the
matter within fifteen (15) days of receiving such a request from the user.
         (c)   The administrative order may take any of the following four (4)
forms:
            (i)   Consent order. The superintendent is hereby empowered to
enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar
documents establishing an agreement with the industrial user responsible for
the noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the
industrial user to correct the noncompliance within a time period also
specified in the order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as
all other administrative orders.
            (ii)   Compliance order. When the superintendent finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or permit or
order issued hereunder, he may issue an order to the industrial user
responsible for the violation directing that following a specified time period,
sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices or other related appurtenances have been installed and are properly
operated. Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including
the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring and
management practices.
            (iii)   Cease and desist order. When the superintendent finds that
an industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any
permit or order issued hereunder, the superintendent may issue an order to
cease and desist all such violations to the user and direct those persons in
noncompliance to comply forthwith and to take such appropriate remedial or
preventative action as may be needed to properly address a continuing or
threatened violation, including halting operations and terminating the
discharge.
            (iv)   Show cause hearing. The superintendent may issue to any user
who causes or contributes to violations of this chapter, discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, an order to appear and show cause why more severe
enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place of the hearing to be held by the superintendent
regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the
proposed enforcement action and directing the user to show cause before the
superintendent why more severe enforcement action should not be taken. The
notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail (return receipt requested) at least ten (10) days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any agent or officer of the facility. Whether or not a
duly notified industrial user or its representative appears, immediate
enforcement action may be pursued. The city itself may conduct the hearing and
take evidence or may designate a representative to issue in the name of the
city notices of hearings requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses
and the production of evidence relevant to any matter involved in such
hearings; take the evidence; and/or transmit a report of the evidence and
hearing, including transcripts and other evidence, together with
recommendations to the city for action thereon. At any hearing held pursuant to
this chapter, testimony taken must be under oath and recorded stenographically.
The transcript, so recorded, will be made available to any member of the public
or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual charges thereof. After
the city has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to the user
responsible for the violation directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment
appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Further orders and
directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. IX § B, 1991; Amended during 1993 codification)
§ 30.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Written notice. Any user found to be violating any provision of this
chapter or a discharge permit or order issued hereunder shall be served by the
superintendent or his representative with written notice stating the nature of
the violation. The violator shall permanently cease all violations upon receipt
of this notice. As contained in Article IX, the notice may be of several forms.
Also as contained in Article IX, penalties of various forms may be levied
against users for violations of this chapter. The penalties shall range from
publication of violators to fines of at least one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
day per violation with no stipulated maximum per day for each violation.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. X § A, 1991)
   (B)   Continued violation. Any user who shall violate any provision of this
chapter, a discharge permit or other order issued hereunder shall be guilty of
a violation of this chapter and shall be liable to the superintendent for a
civil penalty of at least one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation for
each day on which the violation occurs with no stipulated maximum per day for
each violation. Each day in which such violation occurs shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. X § B, 1991)
   (C)   Revocation of permit. Any user violating any of the provisions of this
chapter or discharge permit or other order issued hereunder shall be subject to
termination of its authority to discharge sewage into the public sewer system.
Such termination shall be immediate if necessary for the protection of the
POTW. Said user may also have water service terminated. Any user who violates
any condition(s) of this chapter, discharge permit, order or applicable state
or federal regulations is subject to having its industrial user discharge
permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of this chapter. Violations
resulting in immediate permit revocation shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of its discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations,
processes, wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection and sampling; and
      (4)   Violation(s) of any condition of the industrial user discharge
permit.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. X § C, 1991)
   (D)   Liability. Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter,
discharge permit or other order issued hereunder shall become liable to the
city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such
violation. This civil liability is as provided by state and federal
regulations.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. X § D, 1991)
   (E)   Misrepresentation and/or falsifying of documents. Any user who
knowingly and/or negligently makes any false statements, representations or
certification of any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required pursuant to this chapter or industrial user discharge permit or who
falsifies, tampers with or knowingly and/or negligently renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of at least five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more
than twelve (12) months or by both.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. X § E, 1991; Amended during 1993 codification)
   (F)   Destruction of POTW and legal action. No person(s) shall maliciously,
willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the POTW. Any
person(s) violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under
charge of criminal mischief. It shall be noted that the Clean Water Act does
not require proof of specific intent to obtain conviction.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. X § F, 1991; Amended during 1993 codification)
   (G)   Judicial action. If any person(s) discharge sewage, industrial wastes
or other wastes into the city’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, discharge permit, any order of the superintendent
or the city, federal or state pretreatment requirements, the city may commence
an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the appropriate
court of this jurisdiction. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the
city may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, court reporter's fees
and other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person
(s) found to have violated this chapter or the orders, rules, regulations and
permits issued hereunder.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. X § G, 1991)
   (H)   Termination of service. The superintendent may suspend the wastewater
treatment service and/or wastewater discharge permit of an industrial user
whenever such suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual or threatened
discharge presenting or causing an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of the public, the POTW or the environment. Any user notified
of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or the discharge permit
shall immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
superintendent shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent to minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream or endangerment to any individuals. Any industrial user
which is responsible, in whole or in part, for imminent endangerment shall
submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
superintendent.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. X § H, 1991)
   (I)   Criminal prosecution. Any industrial user who willfully or negligently
violates any provisions of this chapter, any orders or permits issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirements shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one
(1) year or both.
(Ord. 91-11 Art. X § I, 1991; Amended during 1993 codification)
CHAPTER 31: CROSS CONNECTION PREVENTION
   
31.001   Purpose and authority
   
31.002   Definitions
   
31.003   Requirements
§ 31.001 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish a program to assure
that the public water supply is protected from any auxiliary water supply which
may cause contamination due to backflow or cross connections. The city
recognizes that contamination of the public water supply presents an imminent
health hazard to the residential and non-residential users of the public water
system; the threat of significant economic loss due to disrupted water service
to such residential and nonresidential water users and the potential liability
to the city.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
401 KAR 8:020 as enacted by the Kentucky Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Cabinet.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 2007-02 § 1, passed 2-12-07)
§ 31.002 DEFINITIONS
   As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning:
   "AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY." Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city's public water supply. These auxiliary waters may include
water from any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream or body of
water or any water or other substance of unknown or questionable quality that
may present a health or system hazard to the potable public water supply.
   "BACKFLOW." The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
   "BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY." An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. A listing of acceptable backflow prevention assemblies and degree of
hazard is available in the Kentucky State Plumbing Law, Regulations and Code.
   "CONTAMINATION." An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply by
any waste product, fluid, substance, compound or other material to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   "CROSS CONNECTION." Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two (2) otherwise separate piping systems one (1) of which
contains potable water and the other nonpotable water or substance of
questionable quality, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur
into the potable water system.
   "THERMAL EXPANSION TANK." A device installed on the cold water supply line
near a water heater to compensate for the expansion of water within a water
system when such water is heated.
(Ord. 2007-02 § 2, passed 2-12-07)
§ 31.003 REQUIREMENTS
   The city shall provide protection to the public water system against
backflow by implementing the following requirements.
   (A)   Residential. Buildings used for habitation or occupancy shall be
considered as residential buildings. No new water service connection to any
premises shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such
service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. Residential
service connections shall be considered as low hazard applications and all such
connections shall have at a minimum a dual check valve backflow preventer
installed between the water meter and the residence. The city may require
additional or alternate backflow prevention assemblies if the degree of hazard
constitutes a higher level of protection for the public water system.
   (B)   Non-Residential. No new water service connection to any non-
residential facility shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city
unless such water service connection is protected by a backflow prevention
assembly. The type of protective device required shall be determined at the
time of installation of the service connection and shall be commensurate with
the degree of hazard at the point of such service connection. At a minimum the
service connection shall be installed with a dual check valve backflow
preventer. In the event activities to occur within a non-residential facility
change and creates a higher degree of hazard, then the backflow prevention
assembly shall be replaced with an assembly which provides acceptable
protection.
   (C)   Inspections. The customer's water system shall be open for inspection
at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to determine
whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violation of this chapter, exist. When such a condition becomes known, the city
shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a
physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected the
condition in conformance with the state and city statutes relating to plumbing,
water supplies and the regulations adopted pursuantly thereto. Water service to
any premises shall be discontinued if it is found that a backflow prevention
assembly required by this chapter has been removed, bypassed, or if an
unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
   (D)   Existing Service Connections.  All existing water service connections
which do not have backflow prevention assemblies or existing water service
connections which have less than the minimum required backflow prevention
assemblies, shall, except for the inspection requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of this chapter so long as the city is assured that the public
water system is satisfactorily protected. However, if the city determines that
a hazard to health exists, then a backflow prevention assembly meeting the
requirements of this chapter may be installed on such existing service
connection. Backflow prevention assemblies shall not be installed on existing
service connections until after the property owner of such residential or
commercial property has been informed of the actual and potential hazards that
may be created as a result of such backflow assembly installation. Notices
provided to such property owners shall include the following language as
adopted in 815 KAR 20:120 Section 2. item (6): When cross connection control
devices are properly installed, they create a closed water system. A properly
sized thermal expansion tank shall be installed in the cold water supply
located as near the water heater as possible.
(Ord. 2007-02 § 3, passed 2-12-07)
CHAPTER 32: SOLID WASTE
   
32.001   Collection
   
32.002   Permitting of solid waste collection entities
§ 32.001 COLLECTION
   (A)   All residences within the city shall have solid waste collection
unless otherwise required by law, excepted in this or other city ordinance or
by written permission of the city.
   (B)   Each residence shall contract with a solid waste hauler which has been
permitted by the city to haul their garbage to a permitted landfill.
   (C)   Every solid waste hauler within the city must obtain a solid waste
permit/license from the city.
   (D)   Each solid waste hauler permit/license shall be twenty-five dollars
($25) annually.
   (E)   All residential property owners within the city shall collect and
store solid waste generated on their property in mobile containers.
   (F)   For purposes herein, “MOBILE CONTAINER” shall mean a plastic or metal
container with secured lid of not less than twenty (20) gallons nor more than
sixty (60) gallons capacity.
   (G)   Mobile containers will be serviced once a week pursuant to contract
with solid waste hauler entities which have been permitted by the city.
   (H)   Apartment complexes of ten (10) or more units shall be serviced by a
solid waste hauler entity hired by the apartment owner for the entire complex.
Apartment complex owners must provide an adequate number of bulk containers to
service the apartment residents.
   (I)   All solid waste shall be deposited in approved mobile containers.
   (J)   Construction contractors shall dispose of all their waste materials at
a solid waste facility permitted by the state.
   (K)   Any residence not in compliance with this chapter shall be cited for a
first offense and given one month to become compliant. If the residence is not
in compliance, a second offense shall be cited and the residence shall be fined
a sum of twenty dollars ($20) per month for so long as the residence is not in
compliance.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 12-11-08)
§ 32.002 PERMITTING OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTION ENTITIES
   (A)   Any solid waste hauler desiring to provide residential service within
the city must apply, on an application provided by the city, for a permit to
provide such service or provide a copy of an approved permit from the city.
   (B)   Each residential solid waste hauler desiring to provide residential
service must renew its permit each year.
   (C)   All permits shall be subject to city approval in its complete
discretion.
   (D)   Each residential solid waste hauler shall disclose during the permit
process and thereafter as changed, a list of employees working for them.
(Ord. 2008-07, passed 12-11-08)
TITLE 4: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
CHAPTER 40   MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATION
   
CHAPTER 41   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 40: MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATION
ARTICLE I.   SPEED REGULATIONS
   
40.001   Speed limits
ARTICLE II.   STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES
   
40.100   Definitions
   
40.101   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited
   
40.102   Parking
   
40.103   Off-street parking
   
40.104   Parking for persons with disabilities
   
40.105   Liability for violations
   
40.106   Appropriation of fines
ARTICLE III.   GOLF CARTS
   
40.200   Definitions
   
40.201   Adoption of KRS 189.286
   
40.202   Operation requirements
   
40.203   Application of traffic regulations
   
40.204   Motor vehicle requirement exemptions
   
40.205   Exempted golf carts
 
   
40.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 40.001 SPEED LIMITS
   (A)   A speed limit of thirty-five (35) miles per hour shall be imposed on
the entire length of Kentucky State Highways 231 and 70 within the city limits.
   (B)   No motor vehicle shall exceed a speed of twenty-five (25) miles per
hour through a school zone between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on days
on which school is in session.
   (C)   A speed limit of twenty-five (25) miles per hour shall be imposed upon
all streets within the city limits which are controlled and maintained by the
city.
   (D)   Temporary reductions may be imposed from time to time for maintenance,
accidents and other emergencies. Temporary increase shall not be allowed except
in the physical presence of an authorized patrolman or traffic control
individual.
(Ord. 93-02, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 2000-09, passed 3-8-93)
ARTICLE II. STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES
§ 40.100 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this article the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “HIGHWAY.” Any public road, street, avenue, alley, boulevard, bridge,
viaduct or trestle and the approaches to them.
   “PARKING.” Any vehicle left unattended (without an operator in a position
from which he can operate the vehicle) shall be considered parked, whether or
not the motor is running and whether or not the lights are on.
(Ord. 87-09 § 2, 1987)
§ 40.101 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED
   (A)   No person shall stop a vehicle, leave it standing or cause it to stop
or be left standing upon the main traveled portion of a highway, provided,
however, that this section shall not be construed to prevent parking off the
main traveled portion of a highway or a street in a city or suburban area where
such parking is otherwise permitted. This subsection shall not apply to:
      (1)   A vehicle that has been disabled on the main traveled portion of
such a highway in such a manner and to such extent that it is impossible to
avoid occupation of the main-traveled portion or impracticable to remove it
from the highway until repairs have been made or sufficient help obtained for
its removal and shall not apply to wreckers at the scene of an accident or
emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Motor vehicles, when required to stop in obedience to the
provisions of any section of state law; any traffic ordinance, regulation or
sign or the command of any peace officer;
      (3)   Vehicles operating as common carriers of passengers on such vehicle
or discharging passengers therefrom, provided that no such vehicle shall stop
for such purposes in a no passing area as described in KRS 189.340(5);
      (4)   Vehicles which are stopped for a period of not more than fifteen
(15) minutes at a time for the purpose of collecting and transporting solid
waste as defined in KRS 224.1-010(30)(a), and which are operated by a:
         (a)   Collection service registered in accordance with KRS 224.43-315;
or
         (b)   Person or organization actively participating in the Adopt-a-
Highway Program; or
      (5)   Any vehicle required to stop by reason of an obstacle to its
progress;
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon such a
highway in violation of this section, he may move the vehicle or require the
operator or other person in charge of the vehicle to move it to a position off
the paved or improved or main traveled part of the highway.
   (C)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in a tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, the officer may provide for the removal of the vehicle to the nearest
garage or other place of safety.
   (D)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping; or
      (5)   Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   (E)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
   (F)   The restrictions in subsection (D) above shall not apply to sheriffs,
their deputies or police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during performance of their official duties.
(KRS 189.450) (Ord. 87-09 § 1, 1987)
_______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.102 PARKING
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle such that any
wheel is closer than one (1) foot from the pavement on any highway which does
not have a curb.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle at the side of
any highway within two hundred (200) feet preceding a sign which prohibits
parking (No Parking) during a specified period of time. If no times are
specified, then parking is prohibited at any time. The City Council shall
authorize, by resolution, the installation or removal of such signs from time
to time as may be deemed to be in the public interest.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle:
      (1)   Beside any curb painted yellow;
      (2)   Within twenty (20) feet of any fire hydrant; or
      (3)   In any marked parking space for the purpose of maintenance or
repair.
(Ord. 87-09 § 3, 1987)
_______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.103 OFF-STREET PARKING
   (A)   Traffic Lanes and Parking Spaces. It shall be unlawful for any person
to operate or park a vehicle on any off-street parking facility offered for
public use, whether it is publicly or privately owned, in any manner contrary
to designated traffic lanes and parking places clearly marked.
   (B)   Improper Use of Parking Facilities.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether acting individually or
in concert with a group of persons, to gather on, park on or stop on any off-
street parking facility offered for public use, whether publicly or privately
owned, for any purpose or reason other than for the intended purpose and reason
for the existence of the off-street parking facility.
      (2)   The person or persons in possession and/or in control of the off-
street parking facility shall officially request by written correspondence to
the City Clerk requesting enforcement of the ordinance and declaring the hours
of prohibited parking. It shall be the responsibility of the facility to post a
sign in a conspicuous place and declare no parking. After the City Clerk has
received the request, it shall remain in force until requested otherwise.
(Ord. 87-09 § 4, 1987; Am. Ord. 94-12, passed 10-13-94)
_______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.104 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
   It shall be unlawful for anyone not lawfully possessing a parking permit for
persons with disabilities issued pursuant to KRS 189.456, to use a parking
space, whether publicly or privately owned, which has been marked with the
universal handicapped symbol.
(Ord. 87-09 § 5, 1987)
_______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.105 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS
   (A)   The registered owner of any licensed motor vehicle shall be
responsible for any violations of §§
40.101 through
40.105 of this chapter involving such vehicle.
   (B)   The owner or operator of any nonlicensed vehicle shall be responsible
for violations of §§
40.101,
40.102, 40.103(A) or 40.104 of this chapter.
   (C)   The operator of the vehicle shall be responsible for violations of §
40.103(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 87-09 § 6, 1987)
_______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
40.999
§ 40.106 APPROPRIATION OF FINES
   (A)   All revenues collected from parking fines in the city should be and
are hereby designated, ordered and directed to be deposited in the General
Funds for the city.
   (B)   Such funds shall be used in accordance with the usual rules and
restrictions of the General Fund and shall be under the control of the City
Council.
(Ord. 87-09 § 7, 1987)
ARTICLE III. GOLF CARTS
§ 40.200 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this article the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “GOLF CART.” Any self-propelled vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed for the transportation of players or maintaining
equipment on a golf course, while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising
the play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a golf course;
      (2)   Has a minimum of four (4) wheels;
      (3)   Is designed to operate at a speed of not more than thirty-five (35)
miles per hour;
      (4)   Is designed to carry not more than six (6) persons, including the
driver;
      (5)   Has a maximum gross vehicle weight of two thousand five hundred
(2,500) pounds;
      (6)   Has a maximum rated payload capacity of one thousand two hundred
(1,200) pounds; and
      (7)   Meets the federal motor vehicle safety standards as currently
enacted and as they may be changed from time to time for low-speed vehicles set
forth in 49 C.F.R. 571.500.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 11-12-15)
§ 40.201 ADOPTION OF KRS 189.286
   In compliance with the provisions of KRS 189.286 and this article, golf
carts may be operated on the following designated city streets, attached as
Appendix A to Ord. 2015-15, whose speed limits are thirty five (35) miles per
hour or less and do not cross a roadway with posted speed limits greater than
thirty five (35) miles per hour.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 11-12-15)
§ 40.202 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS
   In order to be operated on such designated city streets, a golf cart shall:
   (A)   Be issued a sticker or permit for the golf cart by the city at a
charge of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for first year and a charge of ten
dollars ($10.00) per year thereafter; provided, however, issuance of a permit
after revocation or suspension of a permit shall be at a charge of twenty-five
dollars ($25.00). Operator must show proof of inspection before permit will be
issued.
   (B)   Display a sticker or permit on the rear bumper that identifies that
the golf cart is allowed to be operated on specific roadways within the city;
   (C)   Be inspected by a certified inspector designated by the Butler County
Sheriffs Office and certified through the Department of Vehicle Registration to
ensure that the golf cart complies with the requirements of this section. The
inspection fee under this subsection shall be five dollars ($5.00), with an
additional fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per trip charged if it becomes necessary
for the certified inspector to travel to the site of the golf cart rather than
having the golf cart brought to the Sheriffs inspection area. Inspections shall
occur at the Butler County Sheriffs Office or at such other site as designated
by the certified inspector;
   (D)   Display a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance with KRS 189.820;
   (E)   Be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator,
and the proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times of
operation on a public roadway;
   (F)   Be operated only between sunrise and sunset;
   (G)   Be operated by a person with a valid operator's license in his or her
possession;
   (H)   Be outfitted with headlights, taillights and turn signals to be
operated at all times;
   (I)   Not be operated on any sidewalk.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 11-12-15)
§ 40.203 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   Any person operating a golf cart on a public roadway under the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the traffic regulations of KRS Chapter 189 and
any other applicable provisions of this Code of Ordinances pertaining to the
operation of vehicles upon city streets.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 11-12-15)
§ 40.204 MOTOR VEHICLE REQUIREMENT EXEMPTIONS
   A golf cart operating on a public roadway is not considered to be a motor
vehicle and is exempt from:
   (A)   Title requirements of KRS 182.020;
   (B)   Vehicle registration requirements of KRS 186.050; and
   (C)   Emissions compliance certificates pursuant to KRS 224.20-720.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 11-12-15)
§ 40.205 EXEMPTED GOLF CARTS
   The provisions of these sections shall not apply to a golf cart that is not
used on a public roadway except to cross a roadway while following a golf cart
path on a golf course.
(Ord. 2015-15, passed 11-12-15)
§ 40.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person violating §§
40.101 through
40.105 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for
each offense, and each day of violation shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this §§
40.200 through
40.205 shall, upon conviction of a first offense, be fined not less that fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). Any person
convicted of a subsequent violation of §§
40.200 through
40.205, within five (5) years of a prior conviction under §§
40.200 through
40.205, shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00). Upon an individual's third conviction of an
offense hereunder, the individual's permit shall be revoked for three (3) years
in addition to any fine. Failure to pay any fine on a first or second offense
within thirty (30) days due to a violation of §§
40.200 through
40.205 shall result in suspension of permit. Any golf cart found to be in
violation of KRS 189.820; KRS 304.39-080 or 49 CFR 571.500 shall be subject to
seizure and impoundment along with local impoundment fees until the golf cart
can be transported or the violations corrected and the golf cart can be driven.
(Ord. 87-09 § 7, 1987; Am. Ord. 94-12, passed 10-13-94; Am. Ord. 2015-15,
passed 11-12-15)
CHAPTER 41: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
ARTICLE I.   STREET CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
   
41.001   Mayor authorized to contract for street construction and maintenance
ARTICLE II.   SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
   
41.100   Sidewalk maintenance
   
41.101   Maintenance of sidewalk area
   
41.102   Sidewalk defined
   
41.103   Planting and parking strip defined
   
41.104   Owner defined
ARTICLE III.   EXCAVATIONS
   
41.200   Digging; notification required
ARTICLE IV.   STREET AND SIDEWALK USE REGULATIONS
   
41.300   Leaving items on sidewalk prohibited
   
41.301   Delivery boxes on right-of-way
 
   
41.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. STREET CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 41.001 MAYOR AUTHORIZED TO CONTRACT FOR STREET CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   Whenever the commissioner of highways of the Commonwealth of Kentucky by the
authority of KRS 177.020 and 177.047 designated any streets or portions
thereof, including viaducts and bridges, as connecting links of state or
federal maintained highways, or necessary feeder streets thereto and thereby
undertakes the future maintenance, repair, construction or reconstruction of
such streets, bridges or viaducts in the manner provided by the aforesaid
statutes, the Mayor is hereby expressly authorized, instructed and directed to
enter into any and all contracts and agreements with the Department of Highways
necessary to carry out the purposes and provisions of the statutes.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 11-10-16)
ARTICLE II. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 41.100 SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE
   All sidewalks shall be inspected by and approved for public use and
structural integrity annually by the designated city inspector. After the
inaugural inspection of all sidewalks and curbs the city will make the
necessary upgrades and repairs as needed to meet inspection standards, at which
point the sidewalks and curbs will become the owners’ responsibility to
maintain and meet inspection standards. After a sidewalk has passed inspection,
been improved or constructed, either alone or in combination with a curb, the
owner of land abutting the street area in which the sidewalk has been
constructed shall be responsible for maintaining such sidewalk and curb in good
repair. If the city inspector finds that any such sidewalk or curb needs
repair, he or she shall post a notice on the adjacent property headed “Notice
to Repair Sidewalk” (or curb) which shall in legible characters direct the
owner, agent, or occupant of the property immediately to repair the sidewalk or
curb, or both in a good and substantial manner in accordance with the plans,
specification and regulations of the city. The city inspector shall send by
mail a notice to repair the sidewalk or curb, or both, to the owner, if known,
of such property, or to the agent (if known) of the owner, directed to the post
office address of the owner or agent when known, or if the post office address
is unknown, the notice shall be directed to the owner or agent at the address
where the notice was posted. A mistake in the name of the owner or agent, or a
name other than that of the true owner or agent of the property, or mistake in
address shall not invalidate said notice, but in such case the posed notice
shall be sufficient.
   (A)   Responsibility of Owner.  The abutting property owner of any damaged,
defective, or unsafe sidewalk should report it immediately to the proper city
authorities. It shall be the abutting property owners’ responsibility to also
report any sidewalk that has been damaged due to negligence or unauthorized
activity and may present a hazard or safety issue for pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Notice to Repair. Upon inspection by the designated city inspector
and/or if it is determined that any section or portion of any sidewalk is not
in a reasonably safe condition for pedestrian traffic, due to negligence,
vandalism or unauthorized use upon notice thereof by the city, the abutting
property owner or responsible party causing the defective sidewalk shall repair
or reconstruct the sidewalk within thirty (30) days from notice thereof in a
manner so directed by the city.
   (C)   Failure to Comply.  If and when any portion of any sidewalk in the
corporate limits is deemed by the city to be unsafe for pedestrian traffic and
so notifies the responsible party for damage and the responsible party fails or
refuses to comply with the orders of the board then in that event the city may
cause or contract for the repair and reconstruction of the sidewalk. In the
event the owner or responsible party causing the damage to property abutting
the sidewalk fails, upon notice, to make the necessary repairs and the repairs
are made by the city, the owner of the abutting property shall be personally
liable for the cost of the repairs, including penalties, interest and other
charges, and the city may bring a civil action against the responsible party
and shall have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
   (D)   Failure to Pay; Penalty.  If the owner or responsible party fails to
pay for the improvement within sixty (60) days from completion of the work, or
to have negotiated a payment arrangement, they will be responsible for all
charges incurred including interest on the amount due until paid.
(Ord. 54-5 (part), 1954; Amended during 1993 codification; Am. Ord. 2016-04,
passed 11-10- 16)
§ 41.101 MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALK AREA
   (A)   Construction Standards.  It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
abutting property owner to lay or construct any sidewalk on the public streets
or ways without laying or constructing same on the alignment, grade, width and
thickness authorized by the city in each particular case, which authorization
shall be made upon application filed with the city and meeting all state and
federal standards. With the abutting property owners consent if applicable, and
a permit issued by the designated city inspector for the improvement upon the
alignment and grade, etc., authorized by it therein.
   (B)   Planting and Dumping Prohibited.  It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or abutting property owner to plant trees, shrubs or rank growing woody
vegetation upon any unimproved sidewalk area or ditches or shoulders of the
public streets or ways of the city in undesignated areas; or to dump or place
rock, brush, ashes, cinders, earth, waste paper, litter or other material or
obstruction on the aforesaid improved or unimproved sidewalk area, ditches or
shoulders of the public streets or ways of the city; or to empty or release
polluted water, fluid or liquid garbage on the above said area or in the
ditches of the public streets or rights-of-way owned and maintained by the
city.
   (C)   Compliance with Removal Notice.  No person or firm shall suffer or
permit any of the materials described in (B) above and placed thereon by him or
them, to remain on the area described in (B) after thirty (30) days notice to
remove same from the city or its authorized representative.
   (D)   Property Owner Responsible for Snow and Ice on Sidewalks. The owner(s)
and/or occupant(s) of land adjacent to any street in the city will be
responsible for snow and ice removal if desired, from sidewalks abutting or
immediately adjacent to such land, notwithstanding any time limitations at
their discretion.
   (E)   Sewer Construction. Upon application to and under the direction of the
city, sewer tile or pipes may be laid in the ditch lines of the streets,
provided that grating or water vents shall be installed connected to the sewer
tile, etc. to catch surface water; alignment, depth and size of the drain tile
to be authorized by the Morgantown Utilities Commission Board.
   (F)   (1)   Driveway Construction. Upon appropriate application and payment
or fees, for a driveway the City Zoning Administrator may issue a permit to
construct a driveway in the street area subject to the following conditions:
      (2)   All driveways shall be constructed according to plans,
specifications, regulations and any special conditions fixed by the city and
the Kentucky Department of Transportation.
   (G)   After Construction Driveways Deemed Part of Sidewalk. After a driveway
has been constructed, it shall be deemed a part of the sidewalk whether or not
there is a sidewalk improvement extending along the balance of the frontage
property, for all purposes of repair or reconstruction. Requirements relating
to construction or reconstruction of a sidewalk as provided in this chapter
shall be applicable to reconstruction of a driveway, except that the property
owner shall have no option to petition for a local improvement solely for such
purpose.
(Ord. 54-10 §§ 1-4, 1954; Amended during 1993 codification; Am. Ord. 2016-04,
passed 11-10-16)
_______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
41.999(A)
§ 41.102 SIDEWALK DEFINED
   A “SIDEWALK” means the portion of the street intended for the use of
pedestrians, unless the street area has been designated as a pedestrian mall,
or unless the entire street has been designated primarily for pedestrian use,
for the purpose of this chapter, “SIDEWALK” is that part of a street on the
side there of intended for the use of pedestrians, improved by surfacing.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 11-10-16)
§ 41.103 PLANTING AND PARKING STRIP DEFINED
   “PLANTING STRIP” and “PARKING STRIP” means the area between the curb, or in
the case where there is no curb the edge of the roadway and the abutting
property line not improved by surfacing that is intended for the use of
pedestrians. Any openings made in a surfaced area between the roadway and the
abutting property line for the purpose of planting trees or other vegetation
shall be considered part of the pre-approved planting or parking strip. Gates
or other coverings of said areas shall not be considered as surfacing intended
for the use of pedestrians.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 11-10-16)
§ 41.104 OWNER DEFINED
   “OWNER” means the owner of the real property or the contract purchaser of
real property of records as shown on the last available assessment roll in the
office of the County Assessor.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 11-10-16)
ARTICLE III. EXCAVATIONS
§ 41.200 DIGGING; NOTIFICATION REQUIRED
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig on any of the rights-of-way and
roadways within the city be they state, county or city roads or to dig upon
private property wherein the city utilities commission, namely, water and gas,
have rights-of-way over and under roadways, rights-of-way and private property
without first notifying the appropriate management officer of the utilities
commission at city offices and to notify the utilities commission of the exact
location of where such construction or dig work shall be and to acquire from
the utilities commission representative written consent to perform the work in
conjunction with KRS 367.4901 to 367.4917.
(Ord. 81-2 (part), 1981; Am. Ord. 2016-04, passed 11-10-16)
_______________
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
41.999(B)
ARTICLE IV. STREET AND SIDEWALK USE REGULATIONS
§ 41.300 LEAVING ITEMS ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation doing business within the city limits
shall place, display or leave any unapproved merchandise, hardware, appliances,
fixtures or other items acquired or used in his or its business upon the
sidewalk, street or alley within the city limits.
   (B)   Exception. Businesses or approved special events may request an
exemption or waiver from the city for use of the sidewalk as described in
subsection (A) above, and it does not present a hazard or safety issue for
pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 66-1 §§ 1, 2, 1966; Am. Ord. 2016-04, passed 11-10-16)
_______________
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
41.999(C)
§ 41.301 DELIVERY BOXES ON RIGHT-OF-WAY
   (A)   Prohibited. No person, persons, corporations, governments or
businesses shall place, drive, establish or post any sign boxes for the purpose
of any delivery of any nature or any kind: paper boxes, rural mailboxes or any
signs of any advertisement within twenty-five (25) feet of the right-of-way on
either side of the road, street, highway or alley within the city limits.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to any signs or notices
pertaining to the operation of motor vehicles on the various streets, highways,
roads and alleyways or parking meters, parking violations or to any preexisting
signs in and on the rights-of-way, area set backs as established heretofore and
now in existence.
(Ord. 74-6, 1974; Amended during 1993 codification)
_______________
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
41.999(D)
§ 41.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any person, firm or abutting owner violating provisions of §
41.101 shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be
fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00),
and each day in violation shall constitute a separate offense, provided that
the offense set forth in §
41.101(C) shall not apply until after the elapse of thirty (30) days notice
from the city or its authorized representative.
(Ord. 54-10 § 5, 1954; Amended during 1993 codification)
   (B)   Any person or corporation violating §
41.200, including officers of the corporation, shall be deemed guilty of a
violation and shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) per day and they shall be individually liable for any damages caused
to roadways, rights-of-way or utilities commission's equipment, lines, pipes,
meters and liable to any private person for damages caused by the failure to
acquire the dig permit. There shall be a service charge of two dollars ($2.00)
for the permit to be paid to the utilities commission.
(Ord. 81-2 (part), 1981; Amended during 1993 codification)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who is found guilty of violating §
41.300 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00), and each day
of violation shall constitute a separate offense and in addition thereto shall
lose their occupational license and the right to continue the business while in
violation.
(Ord. 66-1 §§ 1, 2, 1966)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate the regulations
established in §
41.301 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than
ten dollars ($10.00) and no more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), and each
day that any violation occurs will be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 74-6, 1974; Amended during 1993 codification)
TITLE 5: PUBLIC REGULATIONS
   
CHAPTER 50   NUISANCES
   
CHAPTER 51   ANIMALS
   
CHAPTER 52   OFFENSES
   
CHAPTER 53    FIREWORKS
   
CHAPTER 54   BURN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: NUISANCES
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
50.001   Public nuisance defined and prohibited
   
50.002   Nuisances
   
50.003   Initiation of legal proceedings
   
50.004   Hearing procedure for citations
   
50.005   Minimum standards
   
50.006   Abatement; costs
   
50.007   Public nuisances; emergency abatement; costs
ARTICLE II.   WEEDS, BRUSH AND GRASS
   
50.100   Maintenance of property
   
50.101   Abatement by city
ARTICLE III.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
   
50.200   Garbage must be covered during transport
ARTICLE IV.   NOISE
   
50.300   Unlawful noises prohibited
 
   
50.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED AND PROHIBITED
   The term "PUBLIC NUISANCE" shall be defined as whatever annoys, injures, or
endangers the safety, health, welfare, comfort, or repose of the public;
decency or aesthetic sensibilities; interferes with, obstructs, or renders
dangerous any street, highway, navigable lake, or stream; or in any way renders
the public insecure in life or property, and is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. Public nuisances shall include, but shall not be limited to, whatever
is forbidden by any provision of this article. No person shall commit, create
or maintain any public nuisance. No person owning, leasing, occupying or having
charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall
any person keep or maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial
reduction in the value of the other property or public safety hazard inside the
city limits or neighborhood in which such premises are located.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-22-14)
§ 50.002 NUISANCES
   Public nuisances: The following acts, apparatus, accumulations, violations,
and activities within the City of Morgantown are hereby declared to be public
nuisances.
   (A)   Noise Nuisances.
      (1)   It is the finding of the City of Morgantown that excessive noise
adversely affects the community in general and individual citizens in
particular, and may specifically result in hearing loss, speech interference,
both indoors and outdoors, and annoyance, so as to constitute a menace to the
public health, welfare and quality of life.
      (2)   It is the purpose of this article to protect, preserve and promote
the health, safety, peace and quiet for the citizens of the City of Morgantown
through the reduction, control and prevention of excessive noise. Further, it
is the intent of this article to establish standards that will eliminate and
reduce unnecessary and excessive noise, which is physically harmful and
otherwise detrimental to individuals and the community in the enjoyment of
life, property and conduct of business.
      (3)   No person shall emit beyond the boundaries of his property or from
any moving vehicle any noise that unreasonably interferes with the enjoyment of
life or with any lawful business or activity in contravention of any rale or
regulation adopted by the cabinet.
         (a)   General regulation. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
premises within the City of Morgantown, or for the occupant cr person in
possession of any premises within the City of Morgantown, or for any person to
knowingly make, allow to be made, or to permit to be made upon the premises so
owned, occupied, or possessed, any excessive, unnecessary, unnatural, repeated,
prolonged, unusually loud noise, which is clearly audible from nearby
properties, within the limits of the City of Morgantown.
         (b)   Specific Noise Violations. The following recurring noise
disturbances are hereby declared to be violation of this article provided,
however, that the specification of the same is not to be construed to exclude
other violations of this article not specifically enumerated below;
            1.   The playing of any radio, phonograph, television, or other
electronic or mechanical sound-producing device, including any musical
instrument loud enough as to be a considered nuisance to the neighborhood or
community.
            2.   Yelling, shouting, discharging fireworks, singing or other
noise making at any time or place loud enough to be disruptive to residents of
the neighborhood.
            3.   The operation of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle
so out of repair or so loaded or constructed as to cause loud and unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling, or other unreasonable noise including the noise
resulting from exhaust which is clearly audible from nearby properties. The
modification of any noise abatement device on any motor vehicle or engine, or
the failure to maintain same so that the noise emitted by such vehicle or
engine is increased above that emitted by such vehicle as originally
manufactured shall be in violation of this section. The sounding of any
unreasonably disturbing horn unless necessary to operate said vehicle safely
pursuant to KRS.189.020.
            4.   The construction, excavation, demolition, alteration or repair
of any building or premises in any part of the city, including the streets and
highways, other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and sundown on any day,
except in cases of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and
safety, Urgent necessity would include snow plowing, utility repairs, and
similar situations.
            5.   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, sale, display
or other commercial purpose.
            6.   The operation of any machinery, equipment or mechanical
device, so as to emit unreasonably loud noise or frequent noise.
            7.   The operation of any race track, proving ground, testing area
or obstacle course for vehicles of any kind or nature in any area of the city.
         (c)   Exceptions. None of the prohibitions enumerated above shall
apply to the following:
            1.   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine or emergency
vehicle while engaged in necessary emergency activities.
            2.   Excavation or repair of bridges, streets or highways or other
property by or on behalf of the State of Kentucky, City of Morgantown, or the
County of Butler, between sundown and 7:00 a.m. when the public welfare, safety
and convenience render it impossible to perform such work during other hours.
            3.   Warning devices emitting sound for warning purposes as
authorized by law.
            4.   Activities permitted by city actions.
   (B)   Dogs Running at Large - Control of Dogs by Owners; Care and Control of
(Pursuant to KRS 258.265).
      (1)   All dogs within the city limits of the City of Morgantown shall be
kept under control at all times by the owner or supervisor of the dog. The
county license and rabies vaccination tags shall be attached to the collars of
all dogs if applicable. The Butler County Dog Warden/Animal Control Officer,
Humane Officer or any duly sworn officer having jurisdiction in Butler County,
are hereby authorized to seize dogs not under control or do not have a county
license and rabies vaccination tags if applicable attached to the collars of
the dogs, and are to deliver such dogs to the Butler County Animal Shelter. In
the event an animal bites an individual the enforcing officer will report this
to the proper Health Department authorities.
      (2)   Dogs engaged in legal hunting activities, lawful training
activities, lawful herding or other farm related activities not in residential
areas shall not be subject to this section.
      (3)   The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl that emanates frequent or
extended noise such as allowing or permitting any dog to bark repeatedly.
   (C)   Abatement of Nuisance by Owners. The owner, owners, tenants, lessees,
and/or occupants at any lot within the corporate limits of this city upon which
such storage as herein set out is made, and also the owner, owners, and/or
lessees or said personally involved in such storage (all of whom are
hereinafter referred to collectively as "owners"), shall jointly and severally
abate said nuisance by the prompt removal of said personally into completely
enclosed buildings used for storage purposed, or otherwise to remove it to a
location without said corporate limits.
   (D)   Penalty for Failure of Owners to Abate such Nuisance. If said owners
allow said nuisance to exist or fail to abate said nuisance, they, and each of
the, upon conviction thereof shall be fined no less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which such nuisance
is permitted to exist.
   (E)   Abatement by the City.
      (1)   Whenever said owners fail to abate said nuisance then the city
shall remove the said personally to a location of its selection, the expenses
therefore to be billed to titled owners, jointly and severely, said bill to be
recoverable in a suit at law.
      (2)   When said personally has been removed and placed in storage by the
city, as provided for herein, said personally shall be sold by the city
following a hearing as set out in this article and a conviction of the owner.
If the proceeds of sale are insufficient to pay the cost of abatement said
owners shall be liable to the city for the balance of the costs, jointly and
severally, to be recoverable in a suit at law. If the proceeds are in excess of
cost, the balance shall be paid to said owners, or deposited in the city
treasury for their use.
   (F)   Enforcement of Ordinance. Any owner, as defined herein, deemed to be
in violation of this article, shall be so notified in writing by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer or City Clerk, by certified mail. From the data of receipt
of such letter of violation, the owner shall have fourteen (14) days in which
to abate said nuisance is not abated at the expiration of the fourteen (14) day
period, a hearing shall be conducted by one of the Commissioners for the City
Council designated by the Mayor and the Building Inspector at the expense of
the city, to determine whether or not a nuisance does exist, and whether or not
the owner is in violation of this article. Thereafter, the City Clerk or
Building Inspector or Zoning Enforcement Officer shall have issued a summons
for the violator to appear for a hearing before the District Court of Kentucky
and upon conviction fined as set out in this article, plus cost, and costs to
the city to remove such nuisance.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-22-14)
§ 50.003 INITIATION OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
   In addition to the citation process described herein, the Director of Health
is authorized to initiate legal proceedings in the Superior Court for the
immediate correction of the violation(s), collection of any penalties, and the
recovery of all costs including cost of remedial action(s) authorized by the
court and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the City of Morgantown to
enforce this article.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-22-14)
§ 50.004 HEARING PROCEDURE FOR CITATIONS
   (A)   The city hereby specifically adopts the provisions of KRS 6.691 for
the establishment of a citation hearing process for alleged violations of this
article.
   (B)   There shall be a Blight Appeals Committee consisting of three (3)
residents of the City of Morgantown, appointed by Mayor and approved by the
City Council, who shall act by majority vote as citation hearing officers in
all hearings for alleged violations of this article.
   (C)   The Director of Health or City Clerk at any time within twelve (12)
months from the expiration of the final period for the uncontested payment of
fines, penalties, costs or fees for any citation issued for an alleged
violation of this article, shall send notice to the person cited. Such notice
shall inform the person cited:
   Of the allegations against him or her and the amount of the fines,
penalties, costs or fees due; that he may contest his liability before the
Blight Appeals Committee by delivering in person or by mail written notice
within ten days of the date thereof; that if he does not demand such a hearing,
an assessment and judgment shall be entered against him; and that such judgment
may issue without further notice.
   (D)   If the person who is sent notice pursuant to this article wishes to
admit liability for any alleged violation, he may, without requesting a
hearing, pay the full amount of the fines, penalties, costs or fees admitted to
in person or by mail to the City Clerk. Such payment shall be inadmissible in
any proceeding, civil or criminal, to establish the conduct of such person or
other person making the payment. Any person who does not deliver or mail
written demand for a hearing within ten (10) days of the date of the first
notice provided for in this ordinance shall be deemed to have admitted
liability, end the Zoning Enforcement Officer or the Director of Health shall
certify such person's failure to respond to the Blight Appeals Committee. The
Blight Appeals Committee shall thereupon enter and assess the fines, penalties,
costs or fees provided for by the applicable ordinances and snail follow the
procedures set forth in state law.
   (E)   Any person who requests a hearing shall be given written notice of the
date, time and place for the hearing. Such hearing shall be held not less than
fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty (30) days from the date of the mailing
of notice, provided the Blight Appeals Committee shall grant upon good cause
shown any reasonable request by any interested party for postponement or
continuance. The procedures and conduct of such hearing, the assessment of
fines, penalties, costs or fees and the entry of judgment in Superior Court
upon such assessment shall be as provided in KRS 227.550.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-22-14)
§ 50.005 MINIMUM STANDARDS
   Nothing in this article shall limit the power and authority of the City
Building Inspector, the Zoning Enforcement Officer, the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the Fire Marshall or the Director of Health to enforce their
respective regulations.
   (A)   In any case where a provision of this article is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health
ordinance, regulation or other code of the city or state, if such provision of
this article establishes a higher standard for the promotion and protection of
the health and safety and property values of the people such provision shall be
enforceable pursuant to the procedures established herein.
   (B)   This article shall not be intended to affect violations of any other
ordinances; codes or regulations whether existing prior to or subsequent to the
effective date of this article. Such violations shall be governed by and shall
continue to be subject to enforcement under the provisions of such ordinances,
codes or regulations in effect at the time the violation occurred, and/or by
enforcement of this article, as may be appropriate.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-22-14)
§ 50.006 ABATEMENT; COSTS
   All expenses incurred by the City Ordinance Enforcement Officer or his/her
agent in repairing, tearing down, abating, or otherwise removing a public
nuisance under this article shall be charged to the person responsible thereof,
the occupant of the land in question, or the person who appears as titled owner
or party in interest upon the last local tax assessment .records of the city.
If such person fails to pay the charge within thirty (30) days after a
statement thereof is mailed to him or her, the amount of expenses incurred by
the city in repairing, tearing down, abating, or otherwise removing the public
nuisance may be paid from the City General Fund and the amount thereof assessed
against the lands on which the expenditures were made on the next general
assessment roll of the city and shall be collected in the same manner as other
taxes are collected. The city may assess a lien upon such lands for such
expense, such lien to be enforced in the manner prescribed by the general laws
of the state providing for the enforcement of tax liens.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-22-14)
§ 50.007 PUBLIC NUISANCES; EMERGENCY ABATEMENT; COSTS
   The City Ordinance Enforcement Officer may act to abate a public nuisance
without giving notice as specified, if the public health, safety, or welfare
requires immediate action. The cost of abating such nuisance shall be charged
as specified in this article.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 12-22-14)
ARTICLE II. WEEDS, BRUSH AND GRASS
§ 50.100 MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY
   All property owners within the city limits shall cut all weeds, brush, grass
and other unsuitable vegetation before same reaches eighteen (18) inches in
height and keep same cut below eighteen (18) inches in height.
(Ord. 57-2 § 1, 1957)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
50.999(B)
§ 50.101 ABATEMENT BY CITY
   If any property owner fails to comply with this chapter, the City Council
shall have the authority to cause such weeds, brush, grass and other unsuitable
vegetation to be cut and removed from the property, and the cost of same shall
be charged to the property owner, which shall have the force and effect of a
lien and be collectable immediately, with interest at the rate of six percent
(6%) per annum after thirty (30) days after date of collectability.
(Ord. 57-2 § 3, 1957)
ARTICLE III. GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
§ 50.200 GARBAGE MUST BE COVERED DURING TRANSPORT
   (A)   Established. All automobiles, trucks, trailers, carts or other open
conveyances or vehicles carrying garbage, trash, scrap or other loose materials
shall cover such garbage, trash, scrap or other loose materials on and/or in
such truck, trailer, cart or other conveyance or vehicle.
   (B)   Areas Subject to Provisions. Vehicles regularly carrying garbage,
scrap, trash or other loose materials from within city limits to the city dump,
and when such vehicles are in process of carrying the materials to and from the
city to the dump, shall be subject to this article during the entire trip to
and from the dump and any dropping of garbage, trash, scrap or other loose
materials along Highway No. 403 by any such vehicle shall be in violation of
this article though outside the city limits, the city being responsible for its
own city dump and operation thereof.
   (C)   Evidence of Improper Covering. Any garbage, trash, scrap or other
loose materials falling from one such vehicle shall be prima facia evidence of
improper covering by owner and or driver of such vehicle.
(Ord. 64-2 §§ 1--4, 1964)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
50.999(C)
ARTICLE IV. NOISE
§ 50.300 UNLAWFUL NOISES PROHIBITED
   (A)   Unlawful Noises Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
make, cause to be made, continue or permit any excessive or unreasonably loud
noise or any other raucous sound, that annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers,
the comfort, health, peace, safety, or repose of other persons of ordinary
sensibilities, in any residential zone within the city.
   (B)   Unlawful Noises Emanating from Motor Vehicles on Public Right-of-Way.
No person operating or occupying a motor vehicle on any publicly owned
property, park, right-of- way, easement, alley, off-street parking lot, or any
other area to which the public has access, shall play, use, operate, or permit
to be played, used, or operated, any radio, tape player, cassette player,
compact disk player, loud speaker, sound amplification system, or other device
designed to generate, amplify, and/or reproduce sound, from within the motor
vehicle.
   (C)   Measurement. For purposes of subsections (A) and (B), sounds will be
in violation of this section if the complained of sound is plainly audible by
another human being at a distance of one hundred (100) feet from the device
producing the sound. For the purpose of this prohibition, PLAINLY AUDIBLE means
any sound which exceeds the noise sound pressure level of sixty (60) dB as
measured by a sound level meter of standard design or, in the absence of such a
device, can clearly be heard, by unimpaired auditory senses based on a direct
line of sight of one hundred (100) or more feet; however, words or phrases need
not be discernible and said sound shall include bass reverberation.
   (D)   Exceptions. The prohibitions set forth herein shall not apply, and it
shall be a defense to any prosecution hereunder, if an otherwise unlawful noise
was emitted from:
      (1)   Any siren, whistle, horn, or bell lawfully used by emergency
vehicles or any other alarm systems, including properly operating vehicle
alarms, used as a warning of danger or the presence of public safety officials
acting within the course and scope of their authority.
      (2)   Sirens, whistles, horns, bells or other ambient noises emanating
from persons or sound devices in association with community wide festivals,
parades, church activities, organized school related programs, activities, or
sporting events or other public events or activities sponsored and/or
authorized by the city.
      (3)   Any noise made, or caused to be made by any person that is
reasonable and necessary under the circumstances to prevent imminent risk of
death or injury to persons or property damage.
      (4)   Any domestic power equipment, including but not limited to, lawn
mowers, weed eaters, blowers, mulching equipment, or edgers, commonly used for
routine household and/or lawn care maintenance.
      (5)   Any commercial power equipment operated in the ordinary course of
business.
      (6)   The operation and maintenance of airplanes, aircraft, locomotives,
trains, brush chippers, vacuum leaf loaders, street sweepers, tractor-mowers,
sanitation removal and refuse collection vehicles, any city service vehicle or
equipment or the construction and maintenance of city streets, sidewalks,
alleys, power lines, utility lines or infrastructure of the city by third
parties.
   (E)   Special Variance.
      (1)   The City Council shall have the authority, consistent with this
subsection, to grant special variances relative to noise disturbances that
would otherwise violate the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Any person seeking a special variance pursuant to this subsection
shall file an application with the City Council on a form supplied by the City
Council, no less than forty-five (45) calendar days prior to the date on which
the special variance is sought to be effective. The application shall contain
information which demonstrates that bringing the source of sound or activity
for which the special variance is sought into compliance with this subsection
would constitute an unreasonable hardship on the applicant, on the community,
or on other persons; that the activity, operation, or noise source will be of a
temporary duration and cannot be done in a manner that would comply with the
provisions of this section; that no reasonable alternative is available to the
applicant; and that the applicant will comply with all time, manner, and place
restrictions deemed reasonable and necessary by the City Council, under the
circumstances.
      (3)   In determining whether to grant or deny the application, the City
Council shall consider the duration, manner, and location of the proposed noise
source; shall balance the hardship to the applicant, the community, and other
persons of not granting the special variance against the adverse impact on the
health, safety, and welfare of persons affected; the adverse impact of the
proposed noise source on property affected and any other adverse impact of
granting the special variance; and whether or not a reasonable alternative with
less adverse impact on surrounding people and properties is available to the
applicant. Applicants for special variances may be required to submit
additional information to the City Council. No application for a special
variance shall be denied on the basis of the content of any noise source
proposed by the applicant. In granting or denying an application, the City
Council shall place on public file with the City Clerk and the Police
Department, a copy of the decision and reasons for denying or granting the
special variance.
      (4)   Special variances shall be granted by notice to the applicant
containing all necessary terms and conditions upon which the permit has been
granted, including but not limited to, the effective date, time of day,
location, and equipment limitation, if any. The special variance shall not
become effective until all conditions are agreed to by the applicant.
Noncompliance with any conditions of the special variance shall terminate it
and subject the person holding it to those provisions of this section
regulating the source of sound or activity for which the special variance was
granted. Any application for extension of the time limit specified in a special
variance or for modification of other substantial conditions shall be treated
like a new application for a special variance.
(Ord. 2007-05 § 1, passed 6-14-07)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
50.999(D)
§ 50.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Regarding § 50.004, if said owners allow said nuisance to exist or
fail to abate said nuisance, they, and each of them, upon conviction thereof
shall be fined no less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which such nuisance is permitted to
exist.
(Ord. 83-1 § 5, 1983; Am. Ord. 06-02 § 5, 2006)
   (B)   Any property owner who shall violate § 50.100 shall be deemed guilty
of a violation and shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than fifty dollars ($50.00) and each day shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 57-2 § 2, 1957)
   (C)   Any persons or persons found guilty of the violation of §
50.200 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined not more than
fifty dollars ($50.00) but not less than ten dollars ($10.00).
(Ord. 64-2 §§ 1 - 4, 1964)
   (D)   Any person convicted of violating § 50.300 shall be fined for the
first conviction not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00), and for all subsequent convictions, not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00). Violation of this section at separate or different times shall
constitute separate offenses.
(Ord. 2007-05 § 2, passed 6-14-07)
CHAPTER 51: ANIMALS
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
51.001   Keeping of livestock in city
   
51.002   Fairs and exhibitions
ARTICLE II.   DOGS
   
51.100   Definitions
   
51.101   Appointment of enforcing officer
   
51.102   Provision for shelter or pound
   
51.103   Interference with enforcing officer prohibited
   
51.104   Regulations for collar or harness
   
51.105   Running at large prohibited
   
51.106   Stray animals
   
51.107   Regulations for impoundment
   
51.108   Vicious animals
   
51.109   Barking, howling and mischievous dogs
   
51.110   Poisoning animals
 
   
51.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK IN CITY
   It is unlawful for any person to keep livestock or poultry or animals of any
kind within one hundred (100) feet of a residence, church or school in the
city. It is unlawful for any person to keep more than two (2) head of livestock
on any city lot within the city even though the lot was more than one hundred
(100) feet from any residence, church, school or business establishment.
(Ord. 63-1 (part), 1962)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
51.999
§ 51.002 FAIRS AND EXHIBITIONS
   This chapter shall not prohibit the operation of county fair or other
showing, exhibiting or keeping of any livestock and/or poultry animals for such
showing and/or exhibiting is carried out or sponsored by the city, county or
any non-profit organization within the city or county with the permission of
the city.
(Ord. 63-1 (part), 1962)
ARTICLE II. DOGS
§ 51.100 DEFINITIONS
   Whenever used in this chapter, unless otherwise clearly indicated, the
following words and phrases shall have the following meanings:
   "ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER." The person(s) designated by the City Council who
shall be primarily responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
   "ANIMAL(s)." Dog(s).
   "AT LARGE." Unrestrained and not under the control of the owner or other
person acting for the owner.
   "DOG." All members of the domesticated canine (Caninis familiaris) family
three months of age or older.
   "HIS." Either male or female.
   "OWNER." Any person having a right of property in the animal, or who keeps
or harbors the animal, or who has it in his care, or acts as its custodian or
who permits the animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by him. In
the event that the owner of the animal is a minor, the custodian, parent or
guardian, legally responsible for such minor shall liable for all penalties,
injuries and damages caused by said animal.
   "PERSON." Individuals, firms, partnerships, and associations.
   "POUND." A place for the impoundment of dogs found to be in violation of the
provisions of this chapter.
   "STRAY ANIMAL." An animal having no means of identification as to the owner.
(Ord. 2003-04 § 1, 2003)
§ 51.101 APPOINTMENT OF ENFORCING OFFICER
   The City Council shall appoint one or more enforcement officers, and said
enforcement officers shall be designated as the Animal Control Officers or
other names as determined by the council. Said Animal Control Officers shall
enforce provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-04 § 2 (part), 2003)
§ 51.102 PROVISION FOR SHELTER OR POUND
   The Council may employ, hire, or contract with an individual or concern to
maintain and keep a shelter or pound for animals picked up and/or impounded
hereunder.
(Ord. 2003-04 § 2 (part), 2003)
§ 51.103 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCING OFFICER PROHIBITED
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or resist an Animal
Control Officer or other person charged with the enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter in the discharge of any act required or permitted hereby.
(Ord. 2003-04 § 2 (part), 2003)
§ 51.104 REGULATIONS FOR COLLAR OR HARNESS
   Each dog over the age of three months shall wear a substantial, durable
collar or harness, to which the inoculation tag, provided for by state law,
shall be attached. It shall be unlawful to attach such tag by wire, rope, or
other inhumane means. No person shall remove the collar or inoculation tag, or
either, from any dog without the consent of its owner. The owner or any dog
found not wearing the evidence of current immunization as provided herein or
for which no certificate or current immunization can be produced, and which is
apprehended by an officer or other person charged with the enforcement of this
chapter, shall be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-04 § 3, 2003)
§ 51.105 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping, possession or
harboring a dog to cause, permit or allow such animal to be at large on or
about any place, lot or premises or portion of same within the city and such
animal shall be taken up and impounded.
   (B)   When a dog is in a public place and off the premises of the owner the
animal shall be restrained by a leash, cord, or chain not more than six (6)
feet in length and secured to a collar, with swivel connections, in such a
manner as to effectively prevent the escape of the animal. It is provided
further that no animal shall be restrained in an inhumane manner.
   (C)   If any animal is found upon the premises of any person other than its
owner, the owner or occupant of such premises shall have the right to confine
the animal and shall immediately notify the Animal Control Officer to impound
the animal.
   (D)   It shall be no defense in the prosecution for a violation of any
provisions of this chapter that such animal was at large without the knowledge,
consent, or permission of the owner of such animal.
   (E)   No person, owning or having custody or control of any dog, whether or
not restrained by a substantial chain or leash, shall permit the dog to
unlawfully assault, threaten or menace any human being or other animal upon any
public street, sidewalk, park or other public property, or in or upon the
premises or private property of another.
   (F)   No person, owning or having custody or control of any dog, or any
other animal known by such person to be vicious or dangerous, shall permit it
to run loose on or within the premises of such person in such a manner as to
endanger the life or limb of any person lawfully entering such premises.
(Ord. 2003-04 § 4, 2003)
§ 51.106 STRAY ANIMALS
   Any stray animal found at large within the city limits shall be taken up and
impounded.
(Ord. 2003-04 § 5, 2003)
§ 51.107 REGULATIONS FOR IMPOUNDMENT
   (A)   When animals are impounded and if the owner thereof is known, such
owner shall immediately be given written notice of the impoundment of said
animal or animals belonging to him. If the owner of an impounded animal is not
know, notice shall be given by posting for five (5) days a brief description of
such animal at the city hall.
   (B)   In case the owner of an impounded animal desires to make a redemption
thereof, he or she may do so on the following condition: If certificate of
current immunization cannot be produced, he or she shall pay for the
immunization of the animal and, all costs of impoundment as described herein,
including, but not limited to board, advertisement, and notification. Any such
animal so impounded may be retaken or redeemed by the owner or his or her duly
authorized representative within seven (7) days from the impoundment thereof,
or at any time thereafter before sale or destruction thereof, by paying the
city a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for the first offense, thirty dollars
($30.00) for the second offense, and sixty dollars ($60.00) for each additional
offense plus the cost of keeping such dog in the pound at the rate of two
dollars ($2.00) per day.
   (C)   All dogs which have been impounded for lack of rabies immunization,
due notice of which shall have been given to the owner as herein above
provided, may be humanely destroyed and disposed of when not redeemed by the
owner within seven (7) days of impoundment.
   (D)   After a period of not less than seven (7) days after impoundment, the
said impounding officer may sell any animal not redeemed or claimed or
otherwise disposed of, to any purchaser desiring the said animal. No animal
shall be sold at a price less than the costs of immunization, and all costs of
impoundment, including, but not limited to, board, advertisement, and
notification.
   (E)   After seven (7) days of impoundment, animal dog taken up and impounded
which is neither redeemed nor sold may be humanely destroyed.
   (F)   All monies received from the sale of such animals shall be paid to the
City Clerk and shall be used in the operation, maintenance and enforcement of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-04 § 6, 2003)
§ 51.108 VICIOUS ANIMALS
   (A)   Definition.
      (1)   An animal which has aggressively bitten, attacked, or endangered or
has inflicted severe injury on a person on public or private property. However,
the fact that an animal has bitten or attempted to bite some person when that
person was teasing or mistreating the animal or its owner shall not be deemed a
vicious animal within the sense of this section;
      (2)   An animal which has more than once severely injured or killed a
domestic animal while off of its owner's property;
      (3)   An animal which has been used or trained for dog fighting; or
      (4)   An animal, which when unprovoked, chased or approached a person on
public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, if the
actions are attested to in a sworn statement and investigated by the
appropriate authority.
   (B)   Investigation. An animal control authority must investigate reported
incidents involving any dog that may be dangerous. He or she must, if possible,
interview the owner and the person who wants to have a dog classified as
dangerous. The owner of any dog that is the subject of this investigation that
is not impounded with the animal control authority must confine it in a
securely fenced or enclosed area pending the outcome of the investigation and
resolution of any subsequent hearings. The address of where the animal resides
must be provided to the animal control authority. The dog cannot be relocated
or sold pending the outcome of the investigation and hearings.
   (C)   Hearings. After the investigation, the authority must determine
whether there is sufficient cause to classify the dog as dangerous. It must
give the owner notice and an opportunity for hearing before making its final
determination. The owner may request a hearing within seven days after
receiving the notice. If requested, the hearing must be held as soon as
possible, but not more than twenty-one (21) days and no sooner than five (5)
days after receiving the owner's request. The owner can appeal to the court a
determination that the dog is dangerous. Within fourteen (14) days of a final
determination that a dog is dangerous, its owner must register it with the City
Clerk. The person obtaining the registration must be at least eighteen (18)
years old and the registration must be renewed annually at a fee of twenty-five
dollars ($25.00). The owner must keep the dog securely confined indoors or in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or structure, designed to prevent young
children from entering and to prevent the dog from escaping.
   (D)   Confinement. It shall be unlawful for the owner or other person in
charge thereof to keep in the city any vicious animal unless same is confined
in a pen or restrained in such a manner that it cannot bite mail carriers,
delivery men, sanitation workers, or other licensees or invitees coming onto
the premises where such animal is kept.
   (E)   Biting. Whenever any person has been bitten by an animal of another,
an Animal Control Officer shall have authority to take possession of such
animal and keep it securely confined at a place designated by the City Council
for observation for such length of time as the law requires to determine
whether or not such animal is suffering with rabies. The costs of such
confinement shall by assessed to the owner of such animal and shall be in
addition to any other penalties assessed to the owner.
   (F)   Remedies. The remedies provided in this section are cumulative and
shall in no way affect any other remedies provide by law and shall be in
addition to the criminal or civil prosecution of the owner or keeper of any
vicious animal.
(Ord. 2003-04 § 7, 2003)
§ 51.109 BARKING, HOWLING AND MISCHIEVOUS DOGS
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or other person in charge of any dog to
permit the loud and frequent or continuous barking, howling, or yelping of such
dog as to annoy and disturb the neighbors. It shall be prima facie evidence
that an animal is mischievous if it shall destroy real or personal property of
a person other than its owner or shall scatter, tear up or place in disarray
any personal property of a person other than its owner kept on the property of
a person other than its owner.
(Ord. 2003-04 § 8, 2003)
§ 51.110 POISONING ANIMALS
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expose or put out upon his or her own
premises, or upon the premises or another, or upon property owned or held
through easement by the city, or substance which is poured over, wrapped in, or
otherwise combined with food and which is known to be poisonous to animals with
the apparent intent to entice such animals to eat the poisonous substance and
become poisoned thereby. The finding of such poisonous substance or poisoned
foods, together with proof as to the identity of the person exposing or putting
out same, shall be prima facie evidence of the intent to poison and destroy
animals.
(Ord. 2003-04 § 9, 2003)
§ 51.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Violation of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and every
person convicted of violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each separate offense. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to violate any of the terms and provisions of
Article II. Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the said terms
and provisions of Article II shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be punished by fines as follows:
      (1)   For the first offense, the fine shall be twenty-five dollars
($25.00) plus court costs.
      (2)   For the second offense within twelve (12) calendar months, the fine
shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00) plus court costs.
      (3)   For any subsequent offense within twelve (12) calendar months of
the next preceding offense, the fine shall be not less than two hundred and
fifty dollars ($250.00).
      (4)   The owner of any dog that causes severe injury to or death of any
person is subject to a fine of no less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
(Ord. 63-1 (part), 1962; Am. Ord. 2003-04 § 10, 2003)
CHAPTER 52: OFFENSES
   
52.001   Curfew for minors
   
52.002   Law enforcement disciplinary procedures for the Morgantown city park
   
52.999   Penalty
§ 52.001 CURFEW FOR MINORS
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   “MINOR.” Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, or, as
may be otherwise phrased, any person of the age of seventeen (17) years or
under.“
      (2)   “PARENT.” Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a) As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b) As a legal guardian;
         (c) As a person who stands “in loco parentis”; or
         (d) As a person to whom legal custody has been given by Order of
Court.
      (3)   “REMAIN.” To stay behind, to tarry or to stay unnecessarily upon or
in any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway.
      (4)   “ALLOW.” Either permit or neglect to prevent. It requires actual or
constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian, that is, the
parent or guardian must actually know about the child violating this section,
or the circumstances must be such that a reasonably prudent parent or guardian
should have known the child was violating this section.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years to be or remain in or upon any public assembly, building, place,
street, or highway within the city at night during the following periods:
      12:00 Midnight Friday to 6:00 a.m. Saturday
      12:00 Midnight Saturday to 6:00 a.m. Sunday
      11:00 p.m. Sunday to 6:00 a.m. Monday
      11:00 p.m. Monday to 6:00 a.m. Tuesday
      11:00 p.m. Tuesday to 6:00 a.m. Wednesday
      11:00 p.m. Wednesday to 6:00 a.m. Thursday
      11:00 p.m. Thursday to 6:00 a.m. Friday
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal
custody of a minor to allow such minor to be or remain in or upon a public
assembly, building, place, street, or highway in the city under circumstances
not constituting an exception as enumerated in subsection (C) during the time
periods contained in subsection (1) of this paragraph (B).
   (C)   In the following exceptional cases a minor in or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street, or highway in the city during the nocturnal
hours provided for in subsection (B) shall not be considered in violation of
this section:
      (1)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
such minor;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United
States Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech,
and the right of assembly, provided that written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by a parent is in the possession of such minor specifying when,
where, and in what manner said minor will be exercising such First Amendment
rights;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity but only after such minor's parent
has communicated to the Police Department the facts establishing such
reasonable necessity;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk or either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to a police officer or the police department;
      (6)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of a school activity, place of employment, or any activity of a
religious or other voluntary association, provided that justification
indicating the place and time of termination of said event can be given to any
investigating officer of the police department;
      (7)   When authorized by regulation issued by the City Council in cases
of reasonable necessity involving more minors than may reasonably be dealt with
on an individual basis. Such regulation should be issued sufficiently in
advance to permit publicity through news media and through other agencies such
as the schools. The regulations shall define the activity, the scope of the use
of the public assembly, building, place, street or highway permitted, and the
period of time involved not to extend more than one hour beyond the time for
termination of the activity, and the reason for finding that such regulation is
reasonably necessary. The City Council shall notify the police department of
said information.
      (8)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of Kentucky
authorize a person under eighteen (18) years of age to perform;
      (9)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle with a
lawfully authorized driver;
      (10)   When the minor, who is a duly authorized and licensed driver, is
operating a motor vehicle within the city for the purpose of passing through,
by direct route, from one location to another either within or without of the
city, including all minors that may also be within the vehicle.
   (D)   (1)   A police officer upon finding or being notified of any minor in
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway whose parent
is believed to be in violation of this section, may stop and question such
minor and request such information as his or her name and age and the name and
address of his or her parent, guardian, or person having legal custody.
      (2)   If the police officer determines or has reasonable cause to believe
that a curfew violation has occurred, the police officer may obtain from the
minor the information necessary to issue a citation to the minor's parent,
guardian, or person having legal custody and then either take the minor to his
or her home or direct the minor to proceed immediately to his or her home.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 2-12-98)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
52.999
§ 52.002 LAW ENFORCEMENT DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES FOR THE MORGANTOWN CITY PARK
   (A)   The City Council hereby grants express authority to the officers of
the Morgantown Police Department and the Butler County Sheriff Department to
remove any person or persons from the park and/or ban that person’s reentry
into the park for such period of time as the officer deems appropriate, subject
to the following conditions:
      (1)   Removal or ban of a person can only be for reasons of observed or
reasonably suspected criminal activities, activities which are hazardous to the
health and well being of any person in the park; including the person being
removed or banned or activities which substantively impact the expected family
atmosphere of the park.
      (2)   Prior to removal or ban for non-criminal activities as provided in
subsection (1) above, the officer shall give a verbal warning to the person to
cease those activities.
      (3)   Upon removal or ban, the officer shall submit a written report to
his department and to the Mayor stating the person’s name, address (if known),
date of removal or ban, length of removal or ban and detailed reasons
therefore.
      (4)   The person who has been removed or banned may appeal his removal or
ban to the Mayor by submitting a written statement explaining his or her
reasons for the appeal and his or her account of the facts involved.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an appeal, the Mayor may affirm or reverse the
decision or amend the length of time of the removal or ban and may also place
conditions, at his or her discretion, upon reentry.
   (C)   Any decision by the Mayor shall be documented with the original
report.
   (D)   A decision by the Mayor reversing or allowing reentry with conditions
of a person shall not prevent or prohibit subsequent removal or banning by
officers for subsequent activities.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 6-9-16)
§ 52.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any parent, guardian, or person having legal custody allowing a minor
to violate section B(1) shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment
for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or both.
(Ord. 98-01, passed 2-12-98)
CHAPTER 53: FIREWORKS
   
53.001   Title
   
53.002   Definitions
   
53.003   Use of fireworks
   
53.004   Fireworks in city limits
 
   
53.999   Criminal penalties
§ 53.001 TITLE
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Fireworks Enforcement
Code.”
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 6-6-17)
§ 53.002 DEFINITIONS
   The following words, terms and/or phrases, when used in this division, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   “AERIAL OR AUDIBLE CONSUMER FIREWORKS.” Those consumer fireworks described
in KRS 227.702 (2) and (3) only.
   “CONSUMER FIREWORKS.” Shall have the same meaning as in KRS 227.702.
   “FIREWORKS.” Shall have the same meaning as in KRS 227.700 except it shall
not include those described in KRS 227.702(1).
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 6-6-17)
§ 53.003 USE OF FIREWORKS
   The use of fireworks, including consumer fireworks, is prohibited except as
set forth herein. The use of any fireworks other than consumer fireworks,
including display fireworks as defined in KRS 227.706, are subject to the
applicable restrictions of state and Federal law and are further prohibited at
all times within the city without written approval of the city government
unless §
53.004 applies.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 6-6-17)
§ 53.004 FIREWORKS IN CITY LIMITS
   (A)   Fireworks and consumer fireworks shall not be used, ignited, fired, or
exploded in the city limits of the City of Morgantown, Kentucky, except as
follows:
   (B)   Fireworks and consumer fireworks must be handled, stored, used,
possessed, and sold in accordance with all applicable Federal, state, and local
law.
   (C)   Fireworks and consumer fireworks may only be used, ignited, fired, or
exploded between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 to midnight on January
1, and also between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and midnight on the following dates
or holidays: July 3 and 4.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, and regardless
of the day of the week on which July 4 falls, persons may use, ignite, fire, or
explode fireworks or consumer fireworks to celebrate Independence Day between
the hours of 10:00 a.m. and midnight.
   (E)   No person may use, ignite, fire, or explode any fireworks or consumer
fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702(2) and (3) if they are under the age of 18,
or within 200 feet of any structure, motor vehicle (whether operational or non-
operational), or any other person, or where the use of such places that person
in violation of any other law, regulation or ordinance.
   (F)   Fireworks and consumer fireworks may be used, ignited, fired, or
exploded with express permission of the City of Morgantown via a permit at no
cost to the individual applying. The permit will allow the use, ignition,
firing, or explosion of fireworks for a single day not listed in division (C)
and (D) of this section between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. No
person or entity shall apply for more than one single permit per calendar year.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 6-6-17)
§ 53.999 CRIMINAL PENALTIES
   Any person convicted of violating §
53.004 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
of not less than $50 nor more than $200.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 6-6-17)
CHAPTER 54: BURN REGULATIONS
   
54.001   General provisions
   
54.002   Purpose
   
54.003   Items permitted
   
54.004   Prohibited in city limits
   
54.005   Exemptions
   
54.006   Fines
§ 54.001 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Burn ordinance of the
City of Morgantown, Kentucky”.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-14-23)
§ 54.002 PURPOSE
   To protect the air quality and fire safety within the city limits and to
enhance the quality of life and to protect the environment.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-14-23)
§ 54.003 ITEMS PERMITTED
   (A)   Burning of leaves with controlled supervision is permitted. Must be
forty (40) feet away from buildings and between the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 6:00
a.m.
   (B)   Burning of small limbs and yard debris with limbs less than one and
one-half (1 1/2) inches in diameter.
   (C)   Campfires and recreational burn rings up to four (4) feet across.
   (D)   Wood heat systems.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-14-23)
§ 54.004 PROHIBITED IN THE CITY LIMITS
   (A)   Burn barrels. Commercial or converted steel drums.
   (B)   Trash piles of any kind.
   (C)   Garbage, kitchen scraps, cans, bottles, plastic, paper, and the like.
   (D)   Oil, grease products, household materials, tires, fabric or synthetic
coverings.
   (E)   Coal may not be used or burned in the city.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-14-23)
§ 54.005 EXEMPTIONS
   The City of Morgantown is exempt from this chapter to allow for limb and
leaf pickup and disposal.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-14-23)
§ 54.006 FINES
   (A)   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for each day of occurrence or violation.
   (B)   Citations or enforcement of this chapter may be conducted by the
Morgantown Code Enforcement Officer or the Morgantown City Police Department.
(Ord. 2023-12, passed 9-14-23)
TITLE 6: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   
CHAPTER 60   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
   
CHAPTER 61   INSURANCE LICENSES
   
CHAPTER 62   CATV FRANCHISES
   
CHAPTER 63   TAXICABS
   
CHAPTER 64   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
   
CHAPTER 65   VENDING
   
CHAPTER 66   SOLICITING
   
CHAPTER 67   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 60: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
   
60.001   Definitions
   
60.002   Occupational license application required
   
60.003   Occupational license tax payment required
   
60.004   Apportionment
   
60.005   Employers to withhold
   
60.006   Returns required
   
60.007   Extensions
   
60.008   Refunds
   
60.009   Federal audit provisions
   
60.010   Administrative provisions
   
60.011   Information to remain confidential
   
60.012   Use of occupational license tax
 
   
60.999   Penalty
§ 60.001 DEFINITIONS
   As used in this chapter, the following terms and their derivatives shall
have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates that a
different meaning is intended:
   “BUSINESS ENTITY.” Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted, regardless of whether said entity
is in “good” standing or not;
   “BUSINESS.” Any activity, trade, occupation, profession, rendering of
services or undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. “BUSINESS”
shall not include a board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade associations,
or unions, or other associations performing services usually performed by trade
associations or unions as recognized by the Internal Revenue Service.
“BUSINESS” shall not include hinds, foundations, corporations, or associations
organized and operated for the exclusive and sole purpose of religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, educational, civic or fraternal purposes,
where no part of the earnings, incomes or receipts of such unit, group, or
association, inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or other person
and where the Internal Revenue Service has designated the “BUSINESS” as such.
   “CITY.”The City of Morgantown, Kentucky.
   “COMPENSATION.” Any consideration, including wages, salaries, commissions,
or any other form of remuneration, paid or payable by an employer for services
performed by an employee, which are required to be reported for federal income
tax purposes and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Section 401
(a), 401 (k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to
Sections 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code;
   “CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT.” The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity's
federal income tax return become final and unappealable;
   “FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT.” The revenue agent's report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service;
   “FISCAL YEAR.” As defined by Section 7701 (a)(24) of the Internal Revenue
Code;
   “EMPLOYEE.” Any person who renders services to another person or any
business entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any
officer, employee, or elected official of die United States, a state, or any
political subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one
(1) or more of the above. A person classified as an independent contractor
under the Internal Revenue Code shall not be considered an employee.
   “EMPLOYER.” The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term “EMPLOYER” means the person having control of the payment of such
wages; and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United State, the term “employer” means such
person.
   “INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.” The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31
of the year in which the tax is due, exclusive of any amendments made
subsequent to that date, other than amendments that extend provisions in effect
of December 31 of the year in which the tax is due, that would otherwise
terminate.
   “MANUFACTURING OPERATION.” Any operation executing the manufacturing of
goods in an industrial type setting located on an industrial-zoned lot as
determined by the City of Morgantown Planning and Zoning regulations.
   “NET PROFIT.” Gross income as defined in Section 61 of the Internal Revenue
Code minus all the deductions from gross income allowed by Chapter 1 of the
Internal Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   “PERSON.” Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever the word “person” is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   “RETURN” or “REPORT.” Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   “SALES REVENUE.” Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods,
services, or property.
   “TAX DISTRICT.” Any county or city with the authority to levy net profits or
occupational license taxes.
   “TAXABLE NET PROFIT.” In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue only within the city means net profit as defined in this section.
   “TAXABLE NET PROFIT.” In case of business entity having payroll or sales
revenue both within and without the city means net profit as defined in this
section, and as apportioned under § 60.004.
   “TAXABLE YEAR.” The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed - -)
§ 60.002 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED
   Every person or business entity engaged in any trade, occupation, or
profession, or other activity for profit or anyone required to file a return
under this chapter to the city shall be required to complete and execute the
questionnaire prescribed by the city. Each person shall be required to complete
a separate questionnaire for each separate business before the commencement of
business or in the event of a status change, other than change of address.
Licensees are required to notify the Clerk of the city of changes of address,
or the cessation of business activity, and of other changes of which render
inaccurate the information supplied in the completed questionnaire.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08)
§ 60.003 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) and (A)(3) of this
section, every person or business entity engaged in any business for profit and
any person or business entity that is required to make a filing with the
Internal Revenue Service or the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to
file and pay to the city an occupational license tax for the privilege of
engaging in such activities within the city. The occupational license tax shall
be measured by two (2%) percent of:
         (a)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee;
         (b)   The net profits from business conducted in the city by a
resident or nonresident business entity.
      (2)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not
apply to the following person or business entities:
         (a)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company,
combined trust, banking and title business organized and doing business in this
state, any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
         (b)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National
Guard for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field
training;
         (c)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election
training or work at election booths in state, county and local primary,
regular, or special elections;
         (d)   Public Service Corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on
property valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to
the provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly
non-public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required
to pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the {'{'}county or city{'}'};
         (e)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license
under KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking of alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking of
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their net profits derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages;
         (f)   Insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky except as provided in KRS 91A.080;
         (g)   Multi-channel video programming services or communications
services as to the extent provided in KRS 92.300(3);
      (3)   Manufacturing operations employing in excess of fifty (50) full-
time, non-temporary employees shall be exempt from the payment of the net
profits license fee. Such business shall, however, be responsible for the
employer's duty to withhold, report and remit the occupational tax of its
employees as set forth hereafter.
   (B)   The legislative body of the city hereby finds that the following
occupations are of such a nature as to require a special regulation and
supervision and therefore the following minimum license fees are imposed on
every person, corporation, association, and the like, engaged in the business,
occupation, calling or profession, or using, holding or exhibiting articles
named in this section who shall pay in advance to the city for each calendar
year (or fraction thereof in the case of new business) the license fee or fees
herein set forth, which payment shall become a credit on the license fee as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   In the event that a licensee is engaged in more than one type of
activity in one business entity, the highest minimum license fee shall apply.
The initial fee must be paid before any business activity is begun. Annual fees
shall be due on or before the first day of January and shall be for the ensuing
year ending December 31. In no event shall any minimum fee set forth under this
section be reduced due to the business or activity having been commenced
subsequent to the first day of January of the tax year.
      (2)   Peddlers (produce grown or produced in Butler County) are exempt.
   (C)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (D)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08; Am. Ord. 2012-03, passed 3-8-12; Am. Ord. 2019-
13, passed --)
§ 60.004 APPORTIONMENT
   (A)   Net profit shall be apportioned consistent with and pursuant to KRS
67.753.
   (B)   Each business entity desiring apportionment shall file an
apportionment form provided by the City Clerk.
   (C)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer's reported percentages under this division,
the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08)
§ 60.005 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold upon the payment of the compensation any tax imposed
against the compensation by the city. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the
city in accordance with § 60.003.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this chapter shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid to one or
more employees of any business entity, and neither the corporate dissolution or
withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor the cessation of holding
any corporate office, shall discharge that liability of any person; provided
that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each or every person
holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became obligated.
No person shall be personally and individually liable under this division who
had no authority to collect, truthfully account for, or pay over any tax
imposed by this chapter at the time that the taxes imposed by this chapter
become or became due.
   (I)   Every employee receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax
imposed under § 60.003 shall be personally liable for the tax notwithstanding
the provisions of divisions (G) and (H). In all cases where the employer does
not withhold the tax levied under this chapter from the employee, such employee
or employees shall be responsible for filing with the city each quarter in the
same manner as if they were the employer. If an employer fails to or is not
required to withhold, report, or pay the license fee it shall become the duty
of the employee to file with the city. The only employer that is not required
to withhold, report, and pay the occupational license tax is the Federal
Government including the United States Postal Service. The payment required to
be made by an employee, can be made quarterly, for the periods ending March 31,
June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year, or at any time the
employee wishes to make an estimated payment for the year in which wages are
earned. All license fees must be received by February 28, for the preceding
calendar year, together with a copy of the employee's W-2 form. Employers not
required to withhold, report, or pay the license fee must annually during the
month of January of each year, make a return to the Occupational Tax
Administrator, in which is set forth the name and social security number of
each employee of the employer during the preceding calendar year, giving the
amount of salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation earned during such
preceding year by each such employee. This list shall include all current full
time employees, part time employees, temporary employees, and terminated
employees whether it be voluntary or involuntary.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08)
§ 60.006 RETURNS REQUIRED
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal year,
which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to a occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08)
§ 60.007 EXTENSIONS
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity any extension of not more than
six (6) months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal
Revenue Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing
its return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for
payment of the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the
amount properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business entity shall
pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to twelve percent (12%) per annum
simple interest on the tax shown due on the return, but not been previously
paid, from the time the tax was due until the return is actually filed and the
tax paid to the city. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08)
§ 60.008 REFUNDS
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under § 60.005, a refund or
credit shall be made to the employer only to the extent that the amount of the
overpayment was not deducted and withheld under § 60.005 by the employer;
   (B)   Unless written application for refund or credit is received by the
city from the employer within two (2) years from the date the overpayment was
made, no refund or credit shall be allowed;
   (C)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license lax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two (2) years of the date prescribed by law for the filing
of a return. The employee shall provide a schedule of and computation
sufficient to verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the
employer the percentage of time spend outside the city and the amount of
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to
approval of the refund.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08)
§ 60.009 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS
   (A)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city may
examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five (5) years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division.
      (1)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent return
the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
      (2)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly included in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of twenty-five percent (25%)
of the amount of net profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be
assessed at any time within six (6) years after the return was filed.
      (3)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly to
adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division, or six (6) months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
The times provided in this division may be extended by agreement between the
business entity and the city. For the purposes of this division, a return filed
before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall be considered
as filed on the last day. Any extension granted for filing the return shall
also be considered as extending the last day prescribed by law for filing the
return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the federal
audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the time prescribed in division (A).
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08)
§ 60.010 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be
refunded or credited within two (2) years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
      (1)   In any case where the assessment period contained in § 60.009 has
been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the city, the
limitation contained in this division shall be extended accordingly.
      (2)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to adjustments
resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a claim for
refund or credit within the time provided for in this division or six (6)
months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (3)   For the purposes of this division and division (C), a return filed
before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall be considered
as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08)
§ 60.011 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL
   (A)   No present or former employee of the city shall intentionally and
without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or her
of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the city or other proper officer,
or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as the
information may have to do with the affairs of the person's business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer's properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the city from testifying in any court, or from introducing as
evidence returns or reports filed with the city, in an action for violation of
the city tax laws or in any action challenging the city laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky grants to the city
the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and records of the
Kentucky Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the
information so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish
statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data
respecting net profits or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) with any other taxing entity, should
there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08)
§ 60.012 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
   All revenue derived from this annual tax shall be deposited in the General
Fund of the city for general municipal expenses and purposes.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08)
§ 60.999 PENALTY
   (A)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be subject to a
penalty equal to five percent (5%) of the tax due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof if the business entity:
      (1)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
      (2)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or before
the due date prescribed for payment.
      (3)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division shall not exceed
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not
be less than fifty dollars ($50).
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the date prescribed under §
60.005  may be subject to a penalty in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of
the tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty
levied pursuant to this division shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of
the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than fifty dollars
($50).
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to twelve
percent (12%) per annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not
previously paid, from the time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the
city. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
60.003 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (A)
through (D) by civil action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. To the
extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to recover all court costs
and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in enforcing any provision of this
chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any person,
business entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return, willfully
makes a false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected,
with the intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part
thereof shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, and
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, shall be
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
60.011 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500) or
imprisoned for not longer than six (6) months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
60.011 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000) or imprisoned for not more than one (1)
year, or both.
   (K)   Any person or business entity that does not complete the questionnaire
as prescribed in division (B) prior to the commencement of business shall be
fined one hundred dollars ($100).
(Ord. 2008-05, passed 6-12-08; Am. Ord. 2019-13, passed - - )
CHAPTER 61: INSURANCE LICENSES
   
61.001   Definitions
   
61.002   License fee imposed
   
61.003   Amount of tax
   
61.004   Tax due
   
61.005   Record of collections
§ 61.001 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “CATEGORY OF RISK RATE.”
      (1)   Life: two percent (2%) (of first year’s premiums only).
      (2)   Health: two percent (2%).
      (3)   Casualty: two percent (2%).
      (4)   Automobile: eight percent (8%).
      (5)   Inland marine: eight percent (8%).
      (6)   Fire: eight percent (8%).
      (7)   All other risks: eight percent (8%).
   “INSURANCE COMPANY.” Any company authorized to transact insurance business
in the state in accordance with KRS Chapter 304. “INSURANCE COMPANY” shall also
include a surplus lines broker licensed in accordance with KRS Chapter 304,
Subtitle 10.
   “LOCAL GOVERNMENT.” A city, county, charter county, consolidated local
government, urban-county government, or unified local government that, by this
chapter, imposes a license fee or tax upon insurance premium receipts.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 3-10-16; Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-3-23)
§ 61.002 LICENSE FEE IMPOSED
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee or tax for
the privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 3-10-16)
§ 61.003 AMOUNT OF TAX
   (A)   The license fee or tax imposed upon an insurance company with respect
to life insurance policies shall be two percent (2%) and based upon the first
year’s premiums only. The license fee or tax shall be applied to the amount of
the premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter upon the lives of
persons residing within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Except as provided in subsection (C) of this section, the license fee
or tax imposed upon each insurance company with respect to any insurance policy
which is not a life insurance policy shall be as follows:
      (1)   Category of risk rate.
         (a)   Life: two percent (2%) (of first year’s premiums only).
         (b)   Health: two percent (2%).
         (c)   Casualty: two percent (2%).
         (d)   Automobile: eight percent (8%).
         (e)   Inland marine: eight percent (8%).
         (f)   Fire: eight percent (8%).
         (g)   All other risks: eight percent (8%).
      (2)   And shall be applied to the premiums actually collected within each
calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies on risks located
within the corporate limits of the city. The license fee or tax shall apply
only to those classes of business which such insurance company is authorized to
transact, less all premiums returned to policyholders.
   (C)   No license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall apply to the
following:
      (1)   Policies of group health insurance provided for state employees
under KRS 18A.225;
      (2)   Health insurance policies issued to individuals including policies
issued through Kentucky Access;
      (3)   Workers compensation insurance;
      (4)   Annuities;
      (5)   Federal flood insurance;
      (6)   Municipal bonds, leases, or other debt instruments issued by or on
behalf of the city unless the bonds, leases, or other debt instruments are
issued for profit or on behalf of for-profit or private organization;
      (7)   Policies of high deductible health plans as defined in 26 U.S.C. §
223(c)(2), commonly referred to as Health Savings Accounts;
      (8)   Policies of insurance, insured or reinsured by the Federal Crop
Insurance Corporation, 7 C.F.R. 400.352(b)(2);
      (9)   Policies insuring or naming the state or one of its agencies or
political subdivisions as an insured and surety bonds where the state or one of
its agencies or political subdivisions is the obligee. For the purposes of
local government premium tax payments, school districts are considered agencies
of the state and policies insuring school districts and bonds with school
districts as the obligee are exempt from local government premium taxes;
      (10)   Policies issued to public service companies which pay ad valorem
taxes;
      (11)   Entities issued a certificate of authority to do business in the
state only as a health maintenance organization pursuant to KRS 304.38-060;
      (12)   Entities issued a certificate of authority to do business in
Kentucky as a captive insurer pursuant to KRS 304.49-010; or
      (13)   Domestic life insurance companies electing to be taxed under the
provisions of KRS 136.320.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 3-10-16; Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-3-23)
§ 61.004 TAX DUE
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than thirty
(30) days after the end of each calendar quarter. The payment shall be
submitted to the local government, together with Form LGT-141 on or before the
due date. Any license fee or tax not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest from the date due until paid at the interest rate established annually
by the Department of Revenue for unpaid or underpaid taxes. This interest shall
be paid to the local government together with the license fee or tax that is
due. In addition, the insurance company shall pay to the local government a
penalty in the amount of ten percent (10%) on a license tax or fee not paid
within thirty (30) days after the due date.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 3-10-16)
§ 61.005 RECORD OF COLLECTIONS
   In accordance with KRS 91A.080(8), each insurance company subject to the
license fee or tax imposed by this chapter shall annually, but March 31,
furnish the local government a written breakdown of all collections in the
preceding calendar year for the following categories of insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland Marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 3-10-16)
CHAPTER 62: CATV FRANCHISES
   
62.001   Franchise grant
   
62.002   Franchise territory
   
62.003   Bidding procedure
   
62.004   Utility poles; damage to city property
   
62.005   Regulation of construction and operation
   
62.006   Subject to city ordinances
   
62.007   City not liable for damages
   
62.008   Taxes
   
62.009   Term of franchise
   
62.010   Expiration of franchise; city right to take over
   
62.011   Compliance with Cable Communications Policy Act
   
62.012   Franchise nontransferable
   
62.013   Previous grants repealed
   
62.014   Forfeiture of franchise
   
62.015   Reimbursement of city
§ 62.001 FRANCHISE GRANT
   Upon the conditions herein set forth and in accordance with Sections 163 and
164 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the city shall grant
to one (1) or more grantees to be designated by one (1) or more ordinances of
the city (the "grantees") a nonexclusive franchise to erect, construct,
maintain and operate CATV transmission and service distribution facilities
including, but not limited to, the erection of poles, cables, wires and other
appurtenances and additions thereto in, over, under, along, across and upon the
streets, lanes, avenues, sidewalks, alleys, bridges, parking lots and other
public places in the city, and subsequent additions thereto, for the purpose of
transmission and distribution of television impulses and television energy in
all forms to the inhabitants of the city, in accordance with the laws and
regulations of the United States and the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and the
ordinances and regulations of the city (each of the foregoing being referred to
hereinafter as a "nonexclusive franchise").
(Ord. 86-2 § 1, 1986)
§ 62.002 FRANCHISE TERRITORY
   The franchise territory shall include the entire present territorial limits
of the city and also any additional territory which may be newly acquired or
annexed by the city from time to time during the period of the franchise.
(Ord. 86-2 § 2, 1986)
§ 62.003 BIDDING PROCEDURE
   (A)   Upon adoption of this chapter and in accordance with Section 164 of
the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the city shall: (1) duly
advertise for bids for a nonexclusive franchise, directing that all bids be
submitted to the council of the city no later than 4:00 p.m. June 24, 1986; (2)
publicly receive bids for a nonexclusive franchise; and (3) award a
nonexclusive franchise to the best bidder, taking into consideration all
factors held relevant thereto under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
recognizing that preference may be given to the number of channels and to
channel selection, maintenance practices, installation and subscriber rates,
experience in operating a system; provided, however, that the city expressly
reserves the right to: (a) award more than one (1) nonexclusive franchise; (b)
reject any or all bids for a nonexclusive franchise; (c) withhold the granting
of any nonexclusive franchise. The city reserves the right to grant at any time
such additional permits or franchises for additional cable communication
systems as it deems appropriate.
   (B)   The City Clerk is hereby ordered and directed to duly advertise in
accordance with the requirements of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky for
bids for a nonexclusive franchise. Such advertisement shall provide that all
bids shall contain the following information and provisions: (1) a schedule of
the rates to be initially charged for services offered, as well as policy as to
how and when the rates will be subject to change during the course of the
franchise: (2) a provision that the CATV system shall have a minimum channel
capacity of twelve (12) channels; (3) a schedule of such other services to be
provided in the form of local access channels and services to public buildings;
(4) the policy which will determine what areas of the city will be served; (5)
any procedures for resolving subscriber grievances; and (6) any provisions
regarding the establishment of a performance bond.
(Ord. 86-2 § 3, 1986)
§ 62.004 UTILITY POLES; DAMAGE TO CITY PROPERTY
   The poles used for the CATV transmission and distribution system shall be
those of utility companies which own or shall own poles located in the city (or
any successor to any of such entities), provided that mutually satisfactory
agreements can be entered into with the aforesaid companies. All streets and
sidewalks that may be disturbed or damaged in the construction of the CATV
system shall be properly repaired by any such grantee at its own expense and to
the satisfaction of the governing body of the city; provided, however, that if
such repairs are not made by such grantee, the city shall, after reasonable
notice to such grantee, make such repairs as it deems necessary and charge the
same to such grantee.
(Ord. 86-2 § 4, 1986)
§ 62.005 REGULATION OF CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION
   (A)   The CATV transmission and distribution system, poles, wires and
appurtenances shall be located, erected, set, constructed and maintained so as
not to endanger or interfere with the lives of any person, damage any property,
public or private, or to interfere with any improvements the city may deem
proper to make, or to hinder unnecessarily or obstruct the free use of the
streets, alleys, bridges or other public places or property.
   (B)   Construction, maintenance and operation of a CATV system, including
connections made to a CATV system to provide service to subscribers, shall be
in accordance with the provisions of the National Bureau of Standards, the
National Code of the National Board of Fire Underwriters and such applicable
ordinances and regulations of the city affecting electrical installations which
may be presently in effect or which may be enacted by the City Council. The
operation of the CATV system shall conform to all rules and regulations of the
Federal Communications Commission applicable thereto.
(Ord. 86-2 § 5, 1986)
§ 62.006 SUBJECT TO CITY ORDINANCES
   Each grantee shall be subject to all ordinances now in force or that may be
hereafter passed relative to the use of highways, streets, alleys, bridges and
public places of the city.
(Ord. 86-2 § 6, 1986)
§ 62.007 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGES
   Each grantee shall hold the city, its elected or appointed officials, its
agents, servants or employees, safe and harmless from all damages or claims for
damages arising out of the construction, maintenance, repair and operation of
the CATV system.
(Ord. 86-2 § 7, 1986)
§ 62.008 TAXES
   In consideration of the granting of a nonexclusive franchise, each grantee
shall pay to the city a franchise fee and as compensation for the rights and
privileges enjoyed hereunder an amount equal to three percent (3%) of each such
grantee's annual gross revenue from its CATV system located in the city. The
fee shall be in lieu of all other fees or taxes including occupation, license,
excise and special taxes or fees of any nature, whatsoever, except municipal ad
valorem taxes on each grantee's property located within the limits of the city.
Likewise, any employees of any grantee shall be subject to all taxes of the
city, including, but not limited to, the occupational license tax.
(Ord. 86-2 § 8, 1986; Amended during 1993 codification)
§ 62.009 TERM OF FRANCHISE
   Each nonexclusive franchise shall be for a term of nine (9) years from the
effective date of the granting of each such nonexclusive franchise and shall
cease and determine at the expiration of such term.
(Ord. 86-2 § 9, 1986)
§ 62.010 EXPIRATION OF FRANCHISE; CITY RIGHT TO TAKE OVER
   (A)   Upon expiration of the term of the franchise or upon any other
termination thereof, as provided for in this chapter or by law, or upon
application for transfer approval, the city, at its sole option, upon payment
to the grantee of a price equal to the fair market value of the system, in
accordance with generally accepted cable television appraisals and accounting
principles, shall have the right to purchase and take over the system. The
above price shall not include, and the grantee shall not receive, anything for
the valuation of "good will" or of any right or privilege under this franchise.
In determining the fair market value, salvage value, depreciated book value,
cash flow, replacement costs and other factors of the system, may be
considered, and further, in the event of dispute of the matter, at the option
of the city, the matter may be submitted to arbitration for determination in
accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association.
   (B)   Upon the exercise of this option by the city, and its service of an
official notice of such action upon the grantee and upon payment of the
purchase price, the grantee shall immediately transfer to the city the
possession and title to the CATV business, free from any and all liens and
encumbrances not agreed to be assumed by the city.
   (C)   It shall be the right of all consumers to receive all available
services insofar as the consumers meet their financial obligations to the
grantee. In the event that the grantee elects to sell the system or the city
gives notice of intent to terminate or fail to renew the franchise, the grantee
shall act so as to insure that all consumers receive continuous uninterrupted
service, regardless of the circumstances. During any such period, the grantee
shall be entitled to the revenues for any period during which it operates the
system.
(Ord. 86-2 § 10, 1986)
§ 62.011 COMPLIANCE WITH CABLE COMMUNICATIONS POLICY ACT
   The city and each grantee shall comply with the provisions of the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984. To the extent that any provision set forth
in this chapter or any ordinance regarding a nonexclusive franchise or in any
accepted bid regarding a nonexclusive franchise is inconsistent with the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, the provisions of the Cable Communications
Policy Act shall control.
(Ord. 86-2 § 11, 1986)
§ 62.012 FRANCHISE NONTRANSFERABLE
   A nonexclusive franchise may not be transferred or assigned by the grantee
thereof without the written consent of the city; provided, however, that this
section does not prohibit, and shall not be construed to prohibit, any
mortgage, pledge, encumbrances or grant of a security interest, for financing
purposes or otherwise, in any property or equipment of a CATV system.
(Ord. 86-2 § 12, 1986)
§ 62.013 PREVIOUS GRANTS REPEALED
   Upon the granting of a nonexclusive franchise to a particular grantee in
accordance with the terms of this chapter, all previous grants or purported
grants to such grantee of a franchise or privilege regarding the use or
occupancy of the surface or spaces above or below the streets for the purpose
of operating a CATV system in the city or providing CATV service to the
inhabitants of the city, whether by ordinance, resolution, license or other
agreement, shall be repealed.
(Ord. 86-2 § 13, 1986)
§ 62.014 FORFEITURE OF FRANCHISE
   (A)   In addition to all other rights and powers of the city, the city may
terminate and cancel the franchise and all rights and privileges of the grantee
thereunder in the event that the grantee either: (1) substantially violates any
material provision of the franchise chapter, the franchise contract, where such
violation shall remain uncured for a period of thirty (30) days subsequent to
receipt by the grantee of written notice of such violation, except where such
violation is not the fault of the grantee or is due to excusable neglect; (2)
attempt to evade any provisions of this franchise, chapter or the franchise
contract or practices any fraud of deceit upon the city.
   (B)   A breach by the grantee of the franchise chapter or the franchise
agreement, shall constitute a breach of contract. Any costs in relation to the
cancellation or termination of this franchise shall be reimbursed to the city
by the grantee. Such costs shall include, but not be limited to, expert
witnesses, all other expenses of suit and a reasonable attorney's fee.
(Ord. 86-2 § 14, 1986)
§ 62.015 REIMBURSEMENT OF CITY
   The grantees shall reimburse the city for the costs of preparation and
publishing the ordinance codified in this chapter and for the advertising
provided for in §
62.003.
(Ord. 86-2 § 15, 1986)
CHAPTER 63: TAXICABS
   
63.001   Business license required
   
63.002   Amount of tax
   
63.003   Lettering requirement
   
63.004   Regulation requirements
 
   
63.999   Penalty
§ 63.001 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED
   Any persons, partnerships or corporations, who have acquired authority to
operate a public taxi service in the city from the Kentucky Department of
Transportation, for the purpose of transporting individuals in the city or the
outlying areas hereof, before such operation shall commence, such taxicab
owners shall acquire a city business license as provided in the city
ordinances.
(Ord. 74-1 (part), 1974)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
63.999
§ 63.002 AMOUNT OF TAX
   There shall be a thirty dollar ($30.00) tax per year on each vehicle
licensed for the purpose of taxicab service.
(Ord. 74-1 (part), 1974)
§ 63.003 LETTERING REQUIREMENT
   Each taxicab licensed for taxicab service shall have a conspicuous sign or
lettering on each side of the cab of at least six (6) inches high with the word
"Taxicab" or "Taxi".
(Ord. 74-1 (part), 1974)
§ 63.004 REGULATION REQUIREMENTS
   Each operator and owner shall abide by the regulations established by the
Kentucky Department of Transportation regulations or any department of the
state regulations regulating the operations of taxicabs.
(Ord. 74-1 (part), 1974)
§ 63.999 PENALTY
   Any persons, partnerships or corporations violating any of the regulations
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be fined not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) and not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
and that for each day of failing to comply with the regulations shall be
considered a separate offense, plus costs or suspension of license to operate.
(Ord. 74-1 (part), 1974)
CHAPTER 64: FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
   
64.001   Imposition of tax
   
64.002   Tax due
   
64.003   Lien imposed
   
64.004   Use of tax
 
   
64.999   Penalty
§ 64.001 IMPOSITION OF TAX
   There is hereby imposed on all financial institutions located within the
corporate limits of the city a franchise tax on all deposits maintained by such
financial institutions, as authorized by KRS Chapter 136.
(Ord. 96-07, passed 9-19-96)
§ 64.002 TAX DUE
   (A)   The tax rate for 1996 is set at .025% and payment of the tax shall be
due June 30, 1997. Any of such tax paid on or before May 31, 1997, shall be
subject to a two percent (2%) discount.
   (B)   Subsequent taxes shall be due and payable by financial institutions at
the same time and in the same manner as all other property taxes, as set forth
each year by the City Council, with the exception of the tax year 1996, where,
because of transition purposes, the taxes shall be due by June 30, 1997.
(Ord. 96-07, passed 9-19-96)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
64.999
§ 64.003 LIEN IMPOSED
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by this chapter, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior and subsequent.
(Ord. 96-07, passed 9-19-96)
§ 64.004 USE OF TAX
   All funds collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid into the General
Fund of the city and shall be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council through the annual budget process.
(Ord. 96-07, passed 9-19-96)
§ 64.999 PENALTY
   All taxes due in accordance with this chapter which are not paid by the due
date established by the City Council shall be deemed delinquent and shall be
subject to the same penalty and interest charges as other unpaid city property
taxes.
(Ord. 96-07, passed 9-19-96)
CHAPTER 65: VENDING
   
65.001   Vending prohibited
   
65.002   Definition
   
65.003   Permit for vending
   
65.004   Farmers market exemption
 
   
65.999   Penalty
§ 65.001 VENDING PROHIBITED
   (A)   No person shall sell, convey, trade or otherwise offer to the public
goods or services from the side of roadways within the city without first
obtaining a permit from the city.
   (B)   No transient vendor shall sell, convey, trade or otherwise offer to
the public goods or services without first obtaining a permit from the city.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-14-07)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
65.999
§ 65.002 DEFINITION
   (A)   A transient vendor shall include any person who travels from place to
place and passes through the city temporarily for the purposes of buying,
selling or exchanging goods or merchandise.
   (B)   "Temporarily" shall mean not of a permanent nature or stay or
involving regular or routine visits to the city.
   (C)   Any person who regularly buys or exchanges goods or services to
retail, wholesale or other established resident businesses in the city and not
to the general public shall not constitute a transient vendor.
   (D)   Any person who operates from an established retail or wholesale
resident business in Butler County shall not constitute a transient vendor.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-14-07)
§ 65.003 PERMIT FOR VENDING
   (A)   Upon submission of an application supplied by the city and payment of
a processing fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) at least forty-five (45) days
prior to the intended beginning date of the vending activity and approval by
the city, the City Clerk shall issue a permit effective until December 31 of
the year of issuance for the vending of goods and services within the city
limits upon such terms and conditions as the city may impose in order to
protect the health and welfare of the public, including, but not limited to,
the number and age of persons conducting vending activities; the goods offered;
the hours of activity. Residents of Butler County who sell fresh produce on an
occasional basis will be exempted from the processing fee.
   (B)   Upon issuance of the permit, the vendor shall have clearly displayed
at all times when vending the issued permit.
   (C)   Each transient vendor shall be required to provide a permanent street
address and all persons working for or with the transient vendor shall submit
to being fingerprinted, photo taken and criminal background check made by the
city Police Department.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-14-07)
§ 65.004 FARMERS MARKET EXEMPTION
   The city may grant a general permit for a specified area, time of operation
and dates of operation for a farmers market. Any person selling produce,
agricultural foodstuffs or related items desiring to take part in an organized
farmers market shall submit their name, address and items to be offered prior
to taking part in the farmers market. The city may waive all fees required
hereunder for an organized farmers market.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-14-07)
§ 65.999 PENALTY
   Each transaction conducted without a permit shall be a violation of this
chapter. Any person convicted of vending without a permit shall be subject to a
fine of not less than twenty- five dollars ($25.00) nor more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) per transaction.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 6-14-07)
CHAPTER 66: SOLICITING
   
66.001   Soliciting from roadways prohibited
   
66.002   Permit to solicit
 
   
66.999   Penalty
§ 66.001 SOLICITING FROM ROADWAYS PROHIBITED
   No person shall stand, place containers, set up stands or otherwise solicit,
request, or ask for donations in or near the public roadways, nor shall they
attempt to sell, give away, or conduct any other activity in conjunction with a
request for donations in or near the public roadways without first obtaining a
permit from the city.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 6-14-07)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
66.999
§ 66.002 PERMIT TO SOLICIT
   (A)   Upon submission of an application supplied by the city at least ten
(10) days prior to the intended activity and approval by the city, the City
Clerk shall issue a permit to solicit in the public roadway upon such terms and
conditions as the city may impose in order to protect the health and welfare of
the public, including, but not limited to number and age of persons allowed on
the site; place of solicitation; hours of solicitation; and the presence or
placement of any signage, advertising, or other devices used in the
solicitation.
   (B)   Only the following persons or groups may apply for a permit:
      (1)   Non-profit organizations as designated by the Internal Revenue
Service;
      (2)   Schools;
      (3)   Charity causes which will directly benefit (in the discretion of
the city) a person or persons residing in Butler County or a person or persons
who resided in Butler County but have temporarily left the county for medical
treatment.
   (C)   All solicitors must be et least eighteen (18) years of age. All
persons present must wear a fluorescent orange visibility vest or shirt. If an
applicant desires persons under the age of eighteen (18) to solicit, the
persons can be no younger than sixteen (16) years of age and must have one (1)
adult for each person under the age of eighteen (18). The city reserves the
right to exempt out any group of solicitors from the age requirements herein.
   (D)   The place of solicitation must be clearly viewable from both streams
of traffic at least one hundred (100) yards in advance. The organization/
person/persons obtaining a permit shall provide a sign at least one hundred
(100) feet, but no more than two hundred (200) feet from the point of
solicitation which clearly and legibly states the name of the organization
soliciting and the name of the group or person benefitting from the
solicitation.
   (E)   The city will set the times which the group or organization may
solicit taking into account traffic patterns and daylight hours. No
solicitation will be allowed outside of the following hours: Friday 2:30 p.m.
to 5:00 p.m. and Saturday 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon.
   (F)   All solicitors who have received a permit must have said permit with
them during solicitation.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 6-14-07)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
66.999
§ 66.999 PENALTY
   Any person convicted of soliciting without a permit or soliciting without
having a granted permit with them, shall be subject to immediate seizure of all
monies collected and a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 6-14-07)
CHAPTER 67: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
67.001   General provisions
   
67.002   Purpose
   
67.003   Incorporation of state law; compliance required
   
67.004   Definitions
   
67.005   Scope
   
67.006   Licenses
   
67.007   ABC Administrator
   
67.008   Hours and sale and delivery
   
67.009   Conditions, prohibition and restrictions
   
67.010   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
   
67.011   Signs and advertising
   
67.012   Patio and outdoor sales allowed
   
67.013   Keg registration
   
67.014   Fees; application and usage
   
67.015   Refund of license fee
   
67.016   Lost or destroyed license
   
67.017   Revocation or suspension and hearing
   
67.018   Notice to licensee; surrender of license; hearing
   
67.019   Transfer of license
   
67.020   Refusal of license
   
67.021   Review of license
   
67.022   Regulatory license fee
   
67.023   Change of information
   
67.024   Dormancy
   
67.025   Approval of premises
   
67.026   Delinquent taxes or fees
   
67.027   Books, records reports
   
67.028   Cost of additional police protection for temporary event
   
67.029   Implementation
§ 67.001 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Alcoholic Beverage
Control ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.002 PURPOSE
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of alcoholic beverage sales
pursuant to KRS Chapter 241 - 244, as amended.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.003 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED
   (A)   The provisions of the Kentucky Alcoholic Beverage Control laws
contained in Kentucky Revised Statutes (KRS) Chapter 241, 242, 243, 244, 424
pertaining to licenses and regulations of the State Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board, and including definitions contained therein, as well as amendments and
supplements thereto, are hereby adopted as part of the Alcoholic Beverage
Control laws of the city, except as otherwise lawfully provided herein. As used
herein “state” means the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and “city” means the City of
Morgantown, Kentucky.
   (B)   Any violation of state law relating to the sale, production, storing
or otherwise trafficking in alcoholic beverages shall also constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall sell, deal to, barter or exchange or possess for sale
any alcoholic beverages without complying with all the provisions of this
chapter and all state statutes and regulations applicable thereto.
   (D)   Any prohibitions, restrictions and regulations pertaining to alcoholic
beverages contained to KRS Chapter 244 shall apply to alcoholic beverage use in
the city.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.004 DEFINITIONS
   The definitions of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the
context otherwise requires, shall have the same meaning as those set out in the
State Alcoholic Beverage Control laws (KRS Ch. 241, 242, 243 and 244) of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and all amendments and supplements thereto.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.005 SCOPE
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to the manufacture, traffic and/or sale of
malt beverages, wine and distilled spirits on any premises or establishment
with the city. The manufacture, traffic and/or sale of malt beverages, wine and
distilled spirits on any premises or establishments within the city pursuant to
a license issued by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control Board shall be
governed by the applicable state statutes; however, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply to all persons, licensees, premises and establishments
within the city to the fullest extent such application is delegated to the
city, or otherwise authorized, by the provisions of KRS Ch. 241 through 244.
Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the licensee, or the agent or
any employee of any licensee thereof, from the restrictions, requirements and
penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the city or of any statutes
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky relating to violations pertaining to alcoholic
beverages.
   (B)   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky (KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244) and all
amendments and supplements thereto, are adopted so far as applicable to this
chapter, except as otherwise lawfully provided herein.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.006 LICENSES
   Under this chapter, a license shall be issued by the city only to the owners
and/or operators of those establishments which qualify for licenses applicable
to the City of Morgantown pursuant to KRS Chapter 243. Whenever any person or
entity seeks a license from the Department of Alcoholic Beverages Control to
manufacture, sale or traffic in alcoholic beverages within the city pursuant to
some other provision of KRS Chapter 241 through 244, such state applicant shall
apply to the city for any applicable city license for the privilege of
manufacturing, sale and/or trafficking in alcoholic beverages with the city.
City license fees, whether primary or supplemental, shall be assessed in
accordance with KRS 243.070 and §
67.014. Regulatory license fees shall be assessed in accordance with KRS
243.075 and §
67.022.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.007 ABC ADMINISTRATOR
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Alcoholic Beverage Control
Administrator. The Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator official mandated
by KRS 241.170 is referred in KRS Chapters 241 through 244 as "ABC
administrator" and the definition of ABC administrator contained in KRS 242.010
(12) provides that this term "...means city alcoholic beverage control
administrator." The Mayor shall appoint the City ABC Administrator.
   (B)   The City ABC Administrator may from time to time appoint additional
personnel as is necessary to assist him or her in the administration of this
chapter and/or any state laws or regulations.
   (C)   The functions of the City ABC Administrator shall be the same with
respect to the city licenses and regulations as the functions of the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board of the Commonwealth (hereinafter referred to as ABC
Board) with respect to state licenses and regulations. Further, the City ABC
Administrator and city police officers are authorized to enforce this chapter
for violations. The City ABC Administrator and any investigator acting under
the authority of the City ABC Administrator, shall have the full police powers
of peace officers within the boundaries of the City of Morgantown and they
along with any authorized law enforcement officer, may inspect any premises
where alcoholic or malt beverages are manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise
trafficked without first obtaining a search warrant.
   (D)   No person shall be a City ABC Administrator, an Assistant ABC
Administrator, an investigator or an employee of the city under the supervision
of the City ABC Administrator, who would be disqualified to be a member of the
ABC Board under KRS 241.100.
   (E)   The City ABC Administrator or any assistant ABC Administrator(s) shall
have all authority as authorized under KRS Chapter 241 through 244 and any
other state statutes.
   (F)   Should the City ABC Administrator or any assistant ABC Administrator
(s) at any time have probable cause to believe that any applicant, licensee,
employee of a licensee or any stockholder, agent or employee of a licensed
corporation, of any member of any company has a criminal record, he or she
shall have the authority to require such person to appear in person at the City
Police Department for the purpose of having his or her fingerprints taken.
   (G)   The City ABC Administrator or any assistant ABC Administrator(s),
before entering upon his or her duties as such, shall take the oath of office
as prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution and shall execute a bond with a good
corporate surety in the penal sum of not less than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), the cost of which shall be paid by the city.
   (H)   (1)   Appeals from the Orders of the City ABC Administrator or
assistant ABC Administrator(s) may be taken to the State ABC Board by filing
with the Board within thirty (30) days a certified copy of the Orders of the
City ABC Administrator.
      (2)   Matters at issue shall be heard by the Board as upon an original
proceeding.
      (3)   Appeals from orders of the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC
Administrator(s) shall be governed by KRS Ch. 13B.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.008 HOURS AND SALE AND DELIVERY
   (A)   A licensee with a Quota Retail Drink License, NQ3 Retail Drink
License, NQ4 Retail Drink License, and/or a Special Sunday Retail Drink License
shall be permitted to sell or dispense distilled spirits, wine and/or malt
beverages Monday through Sunday between the hours of 12:00 noon (CT) and 2:00
a.m. (CT). All other licensees shall be permitted to sell or dispense distilled
spirits, wine, and/or malt beverages Monday through Sunday between the hours of
6:00 a.m. (CT) and 12:00 midnight (CT).
   (B)   All delivery of alcoholic beverages in the city shall be made between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. (CT) and 12:00 midnight (CT), Monday through Saturday.
No delivery shall occur on Sunday.
   (C)   The licensee may sell and dispense distilled spirits, wine and/or malt
beverages on New Year's Eve until 2:00 a.m. (CT) on January 1, regardless of
the day of the week on which New Year's Eve occurs; provided that, the
appropriate licenses have been obtained from both the City and the State ABC
Board/Administrator.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16; Am. Ord. 2019-02, passed 5-9-19)
§ 67.009 CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
   (A)   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
Commonwealth shall be permitted in any form on such licensed premises. Dice,
slot machines or any device of chance are prohibited and shall not be kept on
such premises.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed under this
chapter to have or maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises
which is intentionally adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from
any law enforcement agency in the county as it is now or may hereafter be
operated.
      (2)   In addition to other penalties provided for the violation of this
section, the Chief of Police or the City ABC Administrator, or any investigator
or officer designated by either of such persons, shall have the authority to
confiscate any and all such radio receiving apparatus.
   (C)   All licensees shall be required to take precautions and implement
measures reasonably necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the
licensed premises. Accordingly, the licensee shall be responsible for
maintaining security on the licensed premises including providing adequate
outside lighting to permit customers to utilize the parking area and to promote
the safety, health and welfare of the general public utilizing the licensed
premise.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the licensee under this chapter who sells
alcoholic beverages of any kind, to give away or offer to give away anything
tangible of value as a premium or prize or for any other purpose: (1) in direct
connection with the sale of malt beverages, or (2) except as otherwise allowed
by state law.
   (E)   No quota retail package licensee shall permit any alcoholic beverages
to be consumed on the licensed premises, unless it holds an additional license
authorizing same.
   (F)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to become drunk or intoxicated on the premises, nor shall any licensee
permit any drunk or intoxicated person to remain on the licensed premises.
   (G)   The licensee shall not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any
person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   (H)   The licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at
least eight (8) inches by eleven (11) inches in thirty (30) point or larger
type which states as follows:
   "Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up to One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00) if they:
      (1)   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
      (2)   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages,
      (3)   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages."
   (I)   (1)   The licensee, before commencing any business for which a license
has been issued, shall post and display the license at all times in a
conspicuous place in the room or principal room where the business is carried
on so that all persons visiting the place may readily see the license.
      (2)   The licensee shall not at any time post the license on premises
other than the licensed premises or upon premises where traffic in alcoholic
beverages is being carried on by any person other than the licensee, or
knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in any respect.
   (J)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least eleven (11) inches by fourteen (14) inches in size, with
letters at least one (1) inch high, supplied by the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Commission, and with gender-neutral language supplied by the Cabinet for Health
Services, which shall warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to
conception or during pregnancy can cause birth defects.
   (K)   No wholesaler or malt beverage distributor shall sell any malt
beverages to any person in the city for any consideration except cash or cash
equivalent paid at or before the time of delivery, except as permitted by KRS
244.040. Nor shall any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any
consideration except for cash or cash equivalent at time of purchase.
   (L)   (1)   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her
business any person who:
         (a)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two (2) years,
unless allowed by KRS 244.090(2);
         (b)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly
or indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last
two (2) years, unless allowed by KRS 244.090(2);
         (c)   Is under the age of eighteen (18) years who will be serving
alcoholic beverages or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale
of alcohol as defined under statute; and
         (d)   Within two (2) years prior to the date of his employment, has
had any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
      (2)   Violation of this subsection (L) shall, subject both employer and
employee to penalties provided in this chapter and shall be cause for
revocation of license.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.010 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall participate in and complete the Kentucky Department of Alcoholic Beverage
Server Program (S.T.A.R) or responsible beverage service training from a
program approved by the Kentucky Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under division (A) above
shall complete that training within sixty (60) days of the date on which the
person first becomes subject to the training requirement. All persons
completing the training required by this section shall be recertified in
responsible beverage service training from a program approved by the Kentucky
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, not less than once every three (3)
years thereafter.
   (C)   The manager of the restaurant shall be responsible for compliance with
the training requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the City ABC
Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s) a record on file on each
employee that shall contain the pertinent training information.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.011 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all requirements of
the City of Morgantown Zoning Ordinances and any other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license under this
chapter to sell alcoholic beverages of any kind, to give away or offer to give
away anything tangible of value as a premium or prize or for any other purpose
in connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130 and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.012 PATIO AND OUTDOOR SALES ALLOWED
   Restaurant and hotel licensees under this chapter are allowed to make
licensed sales of alcoholic beverages on patios and other outdoor locations so
long as such activities are conducted upon the licensed premises and under the
exclusive possession and control of the licensee.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.013 KEG REGISTRATION
   (A)   As used in this section, "keg" is defined as a container designed and
capable of holding six (6) or more gallons of malt beverage.
   (B)   All retail licensees selling malt beverages in kegs for consumption
off of the licensed premises shall attach a control label. The label must
display a control number and the name of the licensee, and must be affixed to
the keg at the time of sale. At the time of such sale, the licensee shall
require the purchaser to complete and sign a keg registration form for the keg
stating:
      (1)   The purchaser is of legal age to purchase, possess and use the malt
beverage;
      (2)   The purchaser is not purchasing the keg for resale and will not
allow any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to consume the malt beverage;
      (3)   The purchaser will not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or
obliterated the control label;
      (4)   The property address where the keg will be consumed and physically
located; and
      (5)   The purchaser is aware of his/her duty to maintain a copy of the
keg registration form visible and readily accessible from the location of the
keg.
   (C)   The licensee shall obtain the name, address and telephone number of
the purchaser and shall require the purchaser to produce a valid driver's
license number and, if that is not available, to produce at least one other
generally accepted and reliable form of identification.
   (D)   The licensee shall retain copies of the keg registration forms for a
period of one (1) year and shall make the keg registration form available for
inspection by state and local alcoholic beverage control officers and other law
enforcement officers.
   (E)   The keg registration form shall be forwarded to the City ABC
Administrator within five (5) working days in all situations when the keg is
not returned or is returned with the control label removed or obliterated.
   (F)   The City ABC Administrator is authorized to develop appropriate
registration forms and to develop and to make those forms available to
licensees.
   (G)   All licensees that sell or offer for sale kegs shall post on the
licensed premises a notice provided by the city concerning the provisions of
this section.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale kegs
without the control labels attached and the keg registration form completed. It
also shall be unlawful for any person to remove or to obliterate the control
label or to fail to have the required notice visible and readily accessible
from the location of the keg.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.014 FEES; APPLICATION AND USAGE
   (A)   (1)   Before an application for license shall be considered, the
applicant must publish a notice of its intent to apply for an alcohol beverage
license in a newspaper meeting the requirements of KRS Chapter 424.
         (a)   The advertisement shall state the name and addresses of the
individual applicant, or members of a partnership or limited liability company
if the applicant is either, as well as the name of the business and its
address, or if the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of the
principal office and directors of the corporation, as well as the name and
addresses of the corporation itself, the location of the premises for which the
license is sought, and the type of license for which application is made.
         (b)   The applicant shall attach to the application a newspaper
clipping of the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS
424.170, along with a nonrefundable application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, or dispense, or
have in his or her possession for sale, any alcoholic beverage(s) within the
City of Morgantown without having the appropriate license hereinafter provided
for, or in violation of the terms of such license. Each license issued shall be
applicable only to the specific premises shown thereon and shall not entitle
the holder of the license to sell from any other premises within the City of
Morgantown.
      (3)   All licenses granted under this chapter shall be approved by the
City ABC Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new licenses and for
renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing, signed by the applicant and
upon the forms provided by the Kentucky Department of ABC and the city, as
amended and supplemented from time to time. No license shall be issued until
completed in full and the appropriate fee therefore has been paid. Any license
issued to any person for any licensed premises shall not be transferable or
assignable to any other person or to any other premises or to any other part of
the building containing the licensed premises.
      (4)   (a)   The application shall be verified and shall set forth in
detail such information concerning the applicant and the premises for which the
license is sought as required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the Kentucky
Department of ABC and the city, including as follows:
            1.   All information required by KRS 243.390 to be contained in the
application for state license.
            2.   An executed consent by the applicant to the inspection of the
licensed premises, by the Administrator, where alcoholic beverages are sold,
stored or otherwise trafficked in, without first obtaining a search warrant.
Additionally, the Administrator may confiscate any contraband property or
items.
            3.   Documentary evidence of an application for a state license,
which corresponds to the city license for which the application is being made.
            4.   Original applications for any alcoholic beverage license must
be accompanied by a copy of notice of the applicant's intention to make
application, published once before such application is filed, in the regular
edition of the official newspaper of Butler County, which shall be, The Butler
County Banner.
         (b)   All applicants, all officers of any applicant corporation, all
persons holding five percent (5%) or more of the stock in an applicant
corporation or owners or partners of an applicant partnership shall each submit
fingerprints and a current color photograph of themselves with all other
documents as required in the application process or during any subsequent
renewal if not previously provided or otherwise deemed necessary by the City
ABC Administrator.
         (c)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified or
cashier's check, or a postal or express money order for all fees.
      (5)   All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a criminal background
check and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of this information to the
City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC Administrator(s), if any.
      (6)   All city licenses shall be on the form prescribed by the City
Commission, including though all information on any form used by the Kentucky
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, and shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the licensee;
         (b)   The number of the license;
         (c)   The type of licenses;
         (d)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the
licensed premises;
         (e)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
         (f)   The expiration date of the license; and
         (g)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a
property or vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to
law.
      (7)   All licenses approved by the City ABC Administrator or assistant
ABC Administrator(s), if any, and issued by the city shall begin on January 1
of any year and shall expire on December 31 of the following year.
      (8)   The renewal by the City ABC Administrator or assistant ABC
Administrator(s) of the license shall not be construed to be a waiver or
acceptance of any violation which occurred prior to such renewal and shall not
prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee. The renewal application
shall be accompanied by a renewal application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      (9)   The yearly license term is January 1 to December 31. Any licenses
issued after January 31 of any year shall be assessed a fee which is based on
the pro rata portion of the remainder of the license period. However, the cost
of any license shall not be less than that for a period of six (6) months.
      (10)   In the event a violation of this chapter occurs that requires the
revocation of the license, the city shall not be required to refund any portion
of the license fee.
   (B)   (1)   There hereby is imposed upon each holder of a license to
manufacture and/or traffic in alcoholic beverages, under any provision of KRS
Chapter 241 through 244, a license fee for the privilege of manufacturing and/
or trafficking in alcoholic beverages within the city as follows:
         (a)   Distilled spirit license as set forth in KRS 243.030:
            1.   Distiller’s license, per annum: five hundred dollars
($500.00);
            2.   Rectifier’s license, per annum: three thousand dollars
($3,000.00);
            3.   Wholesaler’s distilled spirits and wine license, per annum:
three thousand dollars ($3,000.00);
            4.   Quota retail package license, per annum: one thousand dollars
($1,000.00);
            5.   Quota retail drink license, per annum: one thousand dollars
($1,000.00);
         (b)   Special temporary license, per event: one hundred dollars
($100.00).
         (c)   Non-quota type 1 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits, wine, and mail beverages), per annum: two thousand dollars
($2,000.00).
         (d)   Non-quota type 2 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages), per annum: one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
         (e)   Non-quota type 3 retail drink license (includes distilled
spirits, wine, and malt beverages), per annum: three hundred dollars ($300.00).
         (f)   Distilled spirits and wine special temporary auction, license,
per event: two hundred dollars ($200.00).
         (g)   Extended hours supplemental license, per annum: two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00).
         (h)   Caterer's license, per annum: eight hundred dollars ($800.00).
Caterers may be issued a caterer's license as a supplementary license provided
that the caterer holds a retail package liquor license or a distilled spirits
and wine or a limited restaurant license. See KRS 243.033(1). Owners and/or
operators of a restaurant which is open to the public and which does not have a
retail package liquor license or a distilled spirits and wine by the drink
retail license or a malt beverage license or a limited restaurant license shall
not qualify for a caterer's license as a primary license or a limited
restaurant license shall not qualify for a caterer's license as a primary
license. See KRS 243.033(2). No publication is required for a supplemental
caterer's license. See KRS 243.033(1). However, an application must be filed
with and approved by the City ABC Administrator. All approved applicants must
also obtain a city business license.
         (i)   Bottling house or bottling house storage license, per annum: one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
         (j)   Malt beverage licenses as follows:
            1.   Brewer's license, per annum: five hundred dollars ($500.00).
            2.   Microbrewery license, per annum: five hundred dollars
($500.00).
            3.   Malt beverage distributor's license, per annum: four hundred
dollars ($400.00).
            4.   Non-quota retail malt beverage package license, per annum: two
hundred dollars ($200.00).
            5.   Non-quota type 4 retail malt beverage drink license per annum:
two hundred dollars ($200.00).
            6.   Malt beverage brew-on-premises, per annum: one hundred dollars
($100.00).
         (k)   Limited restaurant license (includes distilled spirits, wine,
and malt beverages), per annum: one thousand, two hundred dollars ($1,200.00).
         (l)   Limited golf course license (includes distilled spirits, wine,
and malt beverages), per annum: one thousand, two hundred dollars ($1,200.00).
         (m)   The holder of a non-quota retail malt beverage package license
may obtain a Non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license for a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00). The holder of a Non-quota type 4 malt beverage drink license
may obtain a non-quota retail malt beverage package license for a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00).
      (2)   The City ABC Administrator or Assistant ABC Administrator, if any,
shall transmit fees upon collection to the City Clerk to be deposited into the
appropriate designated account. City licenses shall be issued by the City ABC
Administrator or Assistant ABC Administrator, if any, upon receipt of notice
from the ABC Board Administrator of the finality of appeal or protest permitted
upon such license pursuant to the provisions of KRS 243.360, and the fact the
ABC Board Administrator has approved the applicant's state application.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.015 REFUND OF LICENSE FEE
   Should any licensee under this chapter be prohibited from conducting said
business, for the full period covered by the license because of any changes
that may hereafter be made in the laws of the Commonwealth with reference to
alcoholic beverages or other cause outside licensee's control then the city
shall refund to it the proportionate part of the license fee for the period
during which it is prevented from carrying on said business if the licensee
provides sufficient proof to the City ABC Administrator that such period of
inactivity was not the fault of the licensee or the result of a revocation,
suspension or other wrongdoing by licensee or agent or employee of the
licensee.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.016 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE
   When a license shall be lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the City ABC Administrator after he or she shall be
satisfied as to the facts; provided, however, that, the person applying for
said duplicate license shall pay a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for issuing said
duplicate.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.017 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION AND HEARING
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the City ABC Administrator,
or a licensee may in lieu of suspension on approval of the City ABC
Administrator in the alternative pay in part or all of the days of any
suspension period a sum in accordance with the schedule set forth in subsection
(E) of this section, if the licensee shall have violated any of the provisions
of KRS Chapter 241, 242, 243 or 244, or any rule or regulation of the ABC Board
or of the Department of Revenue relating to the regulation of the manufacture,
sale, traffic and/or transportation or taxation of alcoholic beverages or if
such licensee shall have violated or shall violate any act of Congress or any
rule or regulation of any federal board, agency or commission, or this chapter
now, heretofore or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation of the
manufacture, sale traffic and/or transportation or taxation of intoxicating
liquors of any rules or regulations of the city heretofore in existence or
authorized by the terms of KRS Chapter 241, 243 and 244 to be created,
irrespective of whether the licensee knew of or permitted the violation or
whether the violation was committed in disobedience of his or her instructions,
or any such license may be revoked or suspended for any cause which the City
ABC Administrator in the exercise of his or her sound discretion deems
sufficient.
   (B)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the City ABC
Administrator or Assistant ABC Administrator, if any, would have been required
to refuse a license if the facts had been known.
   (C)   Any license may be revoked or suspended for the additional following
causes:
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or his or her agent or employee for
selling any illegal beverages on the premises licensed;
      (2)   Making any false, material statements in an application for a
license;
      (3)   If, within a period of two (2) consecutive years, any licensee or
any of his or her clerks, servants, agents or employees of the licensee shall
have been convicted of two (2) violations of the terms and provisions of KRS
Chapter 241, 243 or 244 or any act heretofore or hereafter in effect relating
to the regulation of the manufacture, sale, traffic and/or transportation of
alcoholic beverages or if within such period, any licensee or any of the
clerks, servants, agents or employees of the license shall have twice been
convicted of any felony or of any misdemeanor directly or indirectly
attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages, or of one such felony and one
such misdemeanor;
      (4)   Willful and deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any penalties imposed by or under the
provisions of any statutes, this chapter or acts of congress relative to
taxation, or for a violation of any rules or regulations of the Department of
Revenue made in pursuance thereof; and/or
      (5)   Setting up, conducting, operating or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine or contrivance, or lottery or gift
enterprise, or handbook or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any such game, device, machine, contrivance, lottery,
gift enterprise, handbook or facility.
      (6)   Failure to pay when due any tax imposed by the City of Morgantown.
   (D)   In the event a citation for violation of any provision of this chapter
is issued, notification of the alleged violation shall be served in writing on
the licensee by delivering a copy to the licensee's place of business in
Morgantown and by mailing a copy by U. S. Mail, postage prepaid, to the
licensee's address as shown on the application for a license, giving notice
that licensee may, within seven (7) days of the date of the notification,
request an administrative hearing before the City ABC Administrator to
determine the existence of a violation. The hearing shall be a trial type
hearing with all parties having a right to counsel and all witnesses subject to
cross-examination.
      (1)   After the hearing is concluded within thirty (30) business days,
the City ABC Administrator shall issue findings of fact and decision.
      (2)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator or Assistant
ABC shall be to the State ABC Board within thirty (30) days from the date of
the City ABC Administrator's decision. See KRS 241.200.
   (E)   In the event of the payment of a monetary penalty in lieu of
suspension, the monetary penalties shall be:
      (1)   Distillers, rectifiers, wineries, and brewers: one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per day.
      (2)   Wholesale liquor licenses: four hundred dollars ($400.00) per day.
      (3)   Distributor beer licensees: four hundred dollars ($400.00) per day.
      (4)   Retail licensees authorized to sell distilled spirits, wine or beer
by the package or drink: fifty dollars ($50.00) per day.
      (5)   All remaining licensees: fifty dollars ($50.00) per day.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.018 NOTICE TO LICENSEE; SURRENDER OF LICENSE; HEARING
   (A)   (1)   Within three (3) days after any order of revocation of a license
becomes final; notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and to the
owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to the
owner of the licensed premises at the address shown on the last application for
a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section.
      (2)   The licensee shall at once surrender his or her license to the City
ABC Administrator.
      (3)   If the revoked license is not forthwith surrendered by the
licensee, the Chief of Police at the request of the City ABC Administrator or
any Assistant ABC Administrator shall immediately cause one of his or her
officers to take physical possession of license and return it to the City ABC
Administrator.
   (B)   When a license has been revoked, the former licensee may, with prior
approval of the City ABC Administrator, dispose of and transfer his or her
stock of alcoholic beverages to an appropriate entity.
   (C)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator shall be to the
State ABC Board.
   (D)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the City ABC
Administrator, the licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized
under his or her license.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.019 TRANSFER OF LICENSE
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned either
as to licensee or location, except with prior approval of the City ABC
Administrator and not then until a payment of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
shall be paid to the city.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.020 REFUSAL OF LICENSE
   The City ABC Administrator may refuse to issue or renew a license for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant, the application, or the premises described therein do
not fully comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws in regard to
alcoholic beverages;
   (B)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension or
revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for state licenses
according to KRS 243.450, 243.490 and 243.500, as well as violation of any city
ordinance regarding alcohol beverage licensing, sales or the administration
thereof;
   (C)   If the applicant has done any act for which a revocation of license
would be authorized; and/or
   (D)   The applicant and/or any shareholder, officer, agent, servant, or
employee thereof had a state license or city license which was revoked within
two (2) years of the date of the application, or the premises described therein
were the premises or any portion thereof described in a state license or city
license revoked during such time;
   (E)   The applicant, his agent, or manager has been convicted of a felony;
   (F)   An applicant who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (G)   A partnership, unless all the members of the partnership shall be
qualified to obtain such a license;
   (H)   An applicant premise is located in the City of Morgantown not zoned
for commercial use under the zoning laws of the City of Morgantown. This
section shall not preclude the issuance of a license on premises for which a
proper zoning change has been granted by the zoning board and City Council of
Morgantown;
   (I)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his or her
application;
   (J)   Failure to pay taxes (See KRS 243.490(2));
   (K)   The City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator shall, in the
exercise of sound discretion, refuse to issue or renew an alcoholic beverage
license to any person who has not conducted his business in a decent orderly
manner or who is known to conduct or encourage a disorderly place of business
or who permits or engages in disorderly conduct, or who has been convicted of
any violation of any criminal or penal law, except minor traffic violations,
during the two (2) years immediately preceding his application. It is hereby
deemed and declared to be in the best interest of public health, welfare and
safety that the Administrator shall have discretion to issue such licenses as
he deems will promote the general welfare of the City of Morgantown;
   (L)   (1)   The City ABC Administrator shall have the discretion to deny
applications for any reason which the Administrator, in the exercise of his or
her sound discretion, deems sufficient, including but not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed premises is located in an unincorporated isolated
area.
         (b)   Prior police difficulties for law enforcement in the area.
         (c)   Other alcoholic beverage outlets in the general area which
adequately serve the population there.
         (d)   Location near heavily traveled road would increase parking and
traffic congestion and hazards.
         (e)   Location at an intersection where five (5) school buses stop and
daily unload over one hundred (100) children and expose them to a detrimental
influence.
         (f)   Location close to a church whose faith opposes alcohol sales.
         (g)   Large number of public protests.
      (2)   Appeal from the decision of the City ABC Administrator shall be to
the State ABC Board.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.021 REVIEW OF LICENSE
   Applicants to whom a license is issued which require certain food sales
percentages shall provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with
the continuing requirement that the required percentage of the applicant's
business income is earned from the sale of food. This documentation shall be
provided on a schedule to be coordinated with the applicant's quarterly
regulatory fee filings, in the event the fifty percent (50%) food requirement
is not met during any particular quarter, the City ABC Administrator shall have
discretion in determining whether revocation is appropriate or whether the
licensee may be allowed a reasonable period of time to reach compliance. If a
good faith effort is demonstrated by the licensee, the City ABC Administrator
may apply an accounting period of at least one (1) year in determining whether
or not the fifty percent (50%) minimum food requirement has been met.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.022 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 243.075, there is hereby imposed a regulatory license
fee upon the gross receipts of each and every person or entity licensed by the
City ABC Administrator. The initial regulatory license fee shall be five
percent (5%) of gross sales of alcoholic beverages. The regulatory license fee
shall commence August 1, 2021.
   (B)   Payment of such regulatory fees shall be remitted to the City ABC
Administrator and shall be held in a separate account maintained for the
purpose of fully reimbursing the city for any estimated costs of any policing,
regulatory or administrative expenses related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any
other taxes, fees or licenses permitted by law; except that, a credit against a
regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any
licenses or fees imposed by the city pursuant to KRS 243.070. Payment of the
regulatory license fee shall accompany the fee returns approved for such use by
the City Council. These returns and payments are due no later than by the end
of the month immediately following each calendar month.
   (C)   Failure to pay such monthly remittance within ten (10) days of the due
date constitutes a violation and subjects licensee to suspension or revocation.
   (D)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay monthly remittance by the
due date is five percent (5%) of the fee due for each thirty (30) days or
fraction thereof. The total late filing penalty shall not exceed twenty-five
percent (25%) of the fee due; provided, however, that in no case shall the
penalty be less than ten dollars ($10.00).
   (E)   Interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum will apply to any
late payments.
   (F)   Annually, effective July 1 of each year commencing in 2022, the City
Council shall review and establish the regulatory license fee for the ensuing
year so as to conform to the requirements of this ordinance and KRS 243.075.
      (1)   Prior to establishing the regulatory license fee, the Mayor shall
cause the City Auditor to audit the regulatory license fee account to ensure
compliance with KRS 243.075, and in conjunction with the City Clerk, to
recommend, based upon the experience of the prior year, a fee rate for the
ensuing year.
      (2)   The Auditor shall report his or her findings to the City Commission
and in addition to the regulatory license fee, recommend any action he or she
deems necessary to ensure compliance with KRS 243.075.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16; Am. Ord. 2021-04, passed 6-10-21)
§ 67.023 CHANGE OF INFORMATION
   (A)   If a license issued by the city is in the name of a corporation or a
limited liability company, it is necessary that stock ownership or member/
membership interest changes in such corporation or company be reported to the
City ABC Administrator. The City ABC Administrator can therefore, investigate
the person to whom the stock or membership is transferred in order to ascertain
whether that person is precluded by statute from holding an interest in an
alcoholic beverage license.
   (B)   As used herein, the word “CHANGE” is construed to include any change
in directors or officers of the corporation, or change in ownership of stock
whereby any person secures ten percent (10%)of the outstanding stock. Transfer
of more than ten percent (10%) of the total stock shall require a new license.
   (C)   (1)   The following information will be required concerning any new
director, officer or person securing any interest in alcoholic beverage
license:
         (a)   Name and address;
         (b)   Nature of interest;
         (c)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
         (d)   Date of birth;
         (e)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of the
state. If a city resident, indicate when residence was established;
         (f)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license
or Corporation or partnership holding a license under this act;
         (g)   Extent of stock ownership; and
         (h)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or
corporation or partnership holding a license in any other state or province.
      (2)   This information shall be filed with the City ABC Administrator as
an amendment of the application pursuant to which the license was granted.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.024 DORMANCY
   (A)   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business
authorized by such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and
become null and void after ninety (90) days. Such is the intent of this
section. Realizing that a licensee, like other business, may have his or her
business interrupted by situations not under his or her control, various
exceptions to the dormancy rule have been included in this section.
   (B)   Any license under which no substantial business is transacted during a
period of 90 days, or repeated shorter periods, shall be considered dormant and
rescinded by the City ABC Administrator. For purposes of the preceding
sentence, "no substantial business" means either no alcohol beverage
transactions during the ninety (90) day period in question, or by using
comparable data, the City ABC Administrator determines in his or her discretion
that the license is being underutilized such that sales for such period(s) are
twenty percent (20%) or more below expected sales for such period(s) and such
deficiency is not caused by circumstances otherwise excused by this chapter.
Comparable data available to the City ABC Administrator may include, but not be
limited to, sales data from comparable businesses and past sales data of the
licensee in question. Upon a determination of dormancy by the City ABC
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the City ABC Administrator.
If the license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the City
ABC Administrator.
   (C)   The provisions of subsection (A) above shall not apply to any licensee
who is unable to continue in business at the premises for which a license is
issued due to construction, an act of God, casualty, death, or the acquisition
of the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental agency under
power of eminent domain (whether the acquisition is voluntary or involuntary),
or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing lease. Such
licensee shall furnish to the City ABC Administrator a verified statement
setting forth the fact that the licensee is unable to continue in business
prior to the expiration of ninety (90) days of inactivity, for any of the
reasons set forth herein, and, the City ABC Administrator may grant an
extension of the dormancy for such period as the Administrator, in his or her
sole discretion, deems reasonable, advisable and warranted, with the license
continuing to remain in effect during the license period or until same is
transferred to another premises, notwithstanding the fact that no business is
transacted during said period; provided, however, no such license shall be
considered valid unless business is conducted thereunder within twelve (12)
months from the date of notice to the City ABC Administrator. Such extension
may not extend beyond the renewal date but may be for such times as the City
ABC Administrator deems appropriate in exercise of his or her discretion.
   (D)   All renewal licenses must be on file with the City ABC Administrator
within thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the licenses for the
preceding license period or the same shall be canceled, except where the
licensee is unable to continue in business at the same premises licensed during
the preceding license prior due to construction, an act of God, casualty,
death, the acquisition or threatened acquisition or these premises by any
federal, state, city or other governmental agency or private corporation,
possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is voluntary or
involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew existing
lease; that said licensee shall file a written verified statement no less than
twenty (20) days from the expiration date of the license, setting forth these
facts, and the City ABC Administrator is hereby authorized, to extend the time
for filing of a renewal of such license for a reasonable length of time within
the sound discretion of the City ABC Administrator; provided, however, such
licensee shall pay a license fee from the expiration date of the former license
or licenses. Said license fee shall not be payable until application is made
for the transfer of said license to a new location.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.025 APPROVAL OF PREMISES
   The City ABC Administrator shall not grant any alcoholic beverage license or
approve a renewal of a license until said applicant and his or her place of
business shall pass any and all other inspections required by the Kentucky
Building Code and be in compliance of all ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.026 DELINQUENT TAXES OR FEES
   (A)   No license to sell alcoholic or malt beverages shall be granted or
renewed to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due
the city at the time of the issuing the license; nor shall any license be
granted or renewed to sell upon any premises or property, owned and occupied by
the licensee upon which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city.
   (B)   Further, if a licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes
or any fees due the city at anytime during the license period, the license to
sell alcoholic or malt beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.027 BOOKS, RECORDS REPORTS
   (A)   Every licensee under this chapter shall keep and maintain upon the
licensed premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved in
the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the City ABC Administrator and such city
employees who may assist the City ABC Administrator in his or her review.
   (B)   The original records of the City ABC Administrator shall be kept in
the office of the City Clerk. The City ABC Administrator shall maintain a copy
of those records in his/her office.
   (C)   For the purpose of assisting the City ABC Administrator in enforcement
of this chapter, every licensee required to report to the Department of ABC
under KRS 243.850 shall provide a copy of such report to the City ABC
Administrator. Copies of any and all reports and correspondences to the
Department of ABC required by statute shall be furnished to the City ABC
Administrator.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.028 COST OF ADDITIONAL POLICE PROTECTION FOR TEMPORARY EVENT
   If it is deemed necessary in the discretion of the City ABC Administrator,
the licensee may be required as a condition of receiving a special temporary
license, to contract directly with the city (by and through the Morgantown
Police Department), at the expense of the licensee, to provide adequate
security for the qualifying event.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
§ 67.029 IMPLEMENTATION
   From time to time, the City Council may by resolution or order promulgate
such rules and regulations and may publish and utilize such forms and other
documents as, in its discretion, may be necessary for the proper implementation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-09, passed 11-10-16)
TITLE 7: HOUSING AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
CHAPTER 70   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
CHAPTER 71   HOUSING DISCRIMINATION
   
CHAPTER 72   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
CHAPTER 73   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 70: BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
70.001   Kentucky Building Code adopted by reference
   
70.002   International Property Maintenance Code adopted by reference
ARTICLE II.   BUILDING ADMINISTRATOR
   
70.100   Enforcement authority
   
70.101   Established; duties
ARTICLE III.   BLIGHTED AND DETERIORATED PROPERTIES CODE
   
70.200   Definitions
   
70.201   General provisions
   
70.202   Building administrator; power and duties
   
70.203   Property review commission; creation; powers and duties
   
70.204   Notice requirements
   
70.205   Statutes adopted
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations, a copy of which is on file in the office
of the City Clerk, is, by reference, hereby adopted in full, and as from time
to time amended, as an ordinance of this city as if written and copied herein
in length and in words and figures, which code includes:
   (A)   State of Kentucky Plumbing Law, Regulations and Code, as contained in
Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations, a copy of
which is also on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(B)   National Electric Code, 1989 Edition, No. 70-89, a copy of which is on
file in the Morgantown Office of the Warren County Rural Electric Cooperative
Corporation.
(Ord. 90-02 § 1 (A), 1990; Amended during 1993 codification)
______________
Cross reference:
   Fire prevention, Kentucky Standards of Safety, see §
72.001
§ 70.002 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   (A)   That the International Property Maintenance Code, 2012 edition, three
copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of
Morgantown, as published by the International Code Council and as updated by
the International Code Council from time to time, as amended herein, be and is
hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City of Morgantown, in
Butler County, Commonwealth of Kentucky for regulating and governing the
conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and the demolition of such
existing structures as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees thereof; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code
on file in the office of the City of Morgantown are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this legislation, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in
division (B) of this Ordinance.
   (B)   Amendments.
   Section 101.1 Insert: City of Morgantown for "Name of Jurisdiction"
   Section 102.3 Replace: This section shall be replaced as follows:   
   “Repairs, additions, or alterations to a structure, or changes of occupancy,
shall be done in accordance with procedures and provisions of the 2013 Kentucky
Building Code, Third Edition, dated June 22, 2016, 2013 Kentucky Residential
Code, Third Edition, dated June 22, 2016, 2013 Kentucky Plumbing Code, 2015
Kentucky Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning Laws, Kentucky Mechanical
Code, Kentucky Standards of Safety, National Fire Code, and the National
Electric Code, all of the foregoing as they exist as of adoption of this
Ordinance or as they may be amended, supplemented or changed by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky or National Association related to the particular
code. This Ordinance shall be construed to be supplemental and complimentary to
the provisions of the Zoning Code for the City of Morgantown, Kentucky. If
there is a direct conflict between this Ordinance and Zoning Code for the City
of Morgantown, this Ordinance shall control.”
   Section 102.7 Amend: In addition to the codes listed in Chapter 8, the codes
listed herein shall also be included.
   Section 103.5 Repeal: The section labeled “Fees” is not adopted.
   Section 106.2 Replace: This Section shall be replaced as follows:
   Violations of the Property Maintenance Code; notice of violation, citations,
appeals, and liens.
   (1)   When a code official, based upon personal observation or
investigation, has reasonable cause to believe that a violation of the Property
Maintenance Code has occurred, the official is authorized to issue a citation
to the owner of the property.
      A citation shall have, at minimum, a seven (7) day grace period in which
the owner may remedy the violation without further penalty. If the owner fails
or refuses to remedy the violation within the time specified, the citation
shall proceed as provided for herein.
   (2)   As an additional alternative remedy to the above penalty, any violator
who violates any provision of the City Property Maintenance Code and/or
Nuisance Code and has been previously issued a citation for violating the same
section of this ordinance for the same property may be issued an immediate
citation with no grace period.
   (3)   Any citation issued by the code official for a violation or violations
of the Property Maintenance Code shall be in a form prescribed by the City and
shall contain, in addition to any other information required by ordinance or
rule of the board, the following information:
      (a)   The date and time of issuance;
      (b)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (c)   The date and time the offense or violation was committed;
      (d)   The facts constituting the offense or violation;
      (e)   The section of the code or number of the ordinance violated;
      (f)   The name of the code official;
      (g)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the citation.
      (h)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation.
      (i)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (j)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation, within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board to contest the citation and that the determination that a
violation was committed shall be final.
   (3)   Any citation that is issued for the violation or violations of the
Property Maintenance Code must be served upon the owner of the property or any
individual with a legal interest in the property by:
      (a)   Certified mail, return receipt requested; or
      (b)   Personal delivery; or
      (c)   By leaving the notice at the person's usual place of residence with
any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice.
   (4)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator of the Property
Maintenance Code, the code official shall notify the Code Enforcement Board by
delivering the citation to the administrative official designated by ordinance
or by the Code Enforcement Board.
   (5)   When a citation for a violation or violations of the Property
Maintenance Code is issued, the person to whom the citation is issued shall, at
minimum, have a seven (7) day grace period in which to remedy the violation. If
the grace period has expired without the violation being remedied, the person
shall, within fourteen (14) days of the date the citation is issued either pay
the civil fine set forth in the citation or request, in writing, a hearing
before the Code Enforcement Board to contest the citation. If the person fails
to respond to the citation within fourteen (14) days, the person shall be
deemed to have waived the right to a hearing to contest the citation and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final. In this
event, the Code Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining that
the violation was committed and imposing the civil fine set forth in the
citation.
   (6)   When a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board has been requested,
the Code Enforcement Board shall schedule a hearing. Not less than seven (7)
days before the date set for the hearing, the Code Enforcement Board shall
notify the person who requested the hearing of the date, time and place of the
hearing. The notice of hearing shall be given in the same manner as set forth
in subsection (3) above.
   (7)   Each case before the Code Enforcement Board may be presented by either
an attorney selected by the City of Morgantown or by a member of the
administrative staff of the City of Morgantown. An attorney may either be
counsel to the Code Enforcement Board or may represent the City of Morgantown
by presenting cases before the Code Enforcement Board, but in no case shall an
attorney serve in both capacities.
   (8)   All testimony at the Code Enforcement Board hearings shall be under
oath and shall be recorded. The Code Enforcement Board shall take testimony
from the code official(s), the alleged offender and any witnesses to the
alleged violation offered by the code officials(s) or the alleged offender.
Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process shall be
observed and shall govern the proceedings.
   (9)   At the hearing, the Code Enforcement Board shall determine, based on
the evidence presented, whether a violation was committed. When the Code
Enforcement Board determines that no violation was committed, an order
dismissing the citation shall be entered. When the Code Enforcement Board
determines that a violation has been committed, it shall issue an order
upholding the citation and may order the offender to pay a civil fine, or may
order the offender to remedy a continuing violation within a specified period
of time to avoid the imposition of the fine, or both. The Code Enforcement
Board shall order the offender upon a finding of a violation to pay, in
addition to any fine, the costs of the hearing, including attorney fees,
witness fees and administrative costs.
   (11)   Every final order of the Code Enforcement Board shall be reduced to
writing, which shall include the date the order was issued, and a copy of the
order shall be furnished to the person named in the citation. If the person
named in the citation is not present at the time a final order is issued, the
order shall be delivered to that person by certified mail, return receipt
requested; or by personal delivery; or by leaving a copy of the order at that
person's usual place of residence with any individual residing therein who is
eighteen (18) years of age or older and who is informed of the contents of the
order.
   (12)   An appeal from any final order issued by the Code Enforcement Board
may be made to the Butler County District Court within thirty (30) days of the
date the order is issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a
complaint and a copy of the Code Enforcement Board's order in the same manner
as any civil action under the Rules of Civil Procedure. The appeal shall be
limited to a review of the record created before the Code Enforcement Board.
   (13)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is
filed within the time period set forth in this section, the Code Enforcement
Board's order shall be deemed final for all purposes.
   (14)   The City of Morgantown shall possess a lien on real property owned by
the person found by a final, non-appealable order of the Code Enforcement
Board, or by final judgment of the court, to have committed a violation of the
Property Maintenance Code for all fines assessed for the violation and for all
charges and fees incurred by the City in connection with the enforcement of
this Code. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording and shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum until paid. The
lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except state,
county, school board and city taxes, and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
   (15)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in subsection (14) above, the
person found to have committed the violation shall be personally responsible
for the amount of all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and
fees incurred by the City in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance.
The City may bring a civil action against the person and shall have the same
remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
   Section 106.3 Replace: This Section and Section Heading are replaced as
follows:
   Section 106.3 Penalties for Violation of Property Maintenance Code
      1.   Any person, firm, corporation, or titled owner who violates an
provision of this code shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than
$100.00 per day per violation but not more than $500.00 per day per violation,
or the cost to the City of Morgantown to abate the violation, or both. Each
date that a violation of this ordinance continues after due notice has been
served in accordance with the terms of this code shall be deemed a separate
offense to a maximum of $10,000 per citation.
      2.   As an additional alternative remedy to the above penalty, any
violator who violates any provision of the city Property Maintenance Code and/
or Nuisance Code and has been previously issued two or more citations of
violations of the City of Morgantown Code of Ordinances related to the same
property within a 12-month period may be assessed additional civil penalties of
$500 per day per violation to a maximum of $20,000 per citation.
      3.   The City of Morgantown shall possess a lien on property for all
fines, penalties, charges, attorney's fees and other reasonable costs
associated with enforcing this code and the placing of a lien on the parcel of
real property pursuant to this code. The lien shall be superior to and have
priority over all other subsequently filed liens, except state, county, school
board, and city taxes.
   Section 106.4 Repeal: This Section is labeled "Violation Penalties" is not
adopted.
   Section 107 Repeal: Sections 107.1, 107.2, 107.3, and 107.5 are not adopted.
   Section 108.3 Replace: This Section is replaced as follows:
   “Whenever the code official has condemned a structure or equipment under the
provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or
about the structure affected by such notice and served on the owner or the
person or persons responsible for the structure or equipment. If the notice
pertains to equipment, it shall be placed on the condemned equipment. The
notice shall be in the form prescribed in Section 106 and served on the owner
or responsible person in accordance with Section 106. However, if the
whereabouts of a person is unknown and it cannot be ascertained by a code
official in the exercise of reasonable diligence, or if the whereabouts of the
owner is known and he or she refuses to accept personal service or the
certified letter mailed to him or her, then the code official shall make an
affidavit to that effect, and thereafter, further notice may be served on such
persons by sending a copy of same by regular U.S. mail to the person's last
known mailing address, as recorded in the office of the PVA, or by newspaper
publication, pursuant to KRS Chapter 424.”
   Section 108.4 Replace: This section is replaced as follows:
   With respect to structures that violate this subsection, upon failure of the
owner or person responsible to comply with the notice provisions within the
time given, the code official shall post on the premises a placard bearing the
following language: This building is unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or
use; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation, occupancy, or
use is prohibited and unlawful. With respect to defective equipment, upon
failure of the owner or person responsible to comply with the notice provisions
within the time given, the code official shall post on the equipment a placard
that the equipment is defective and should not be used and/or may have the
equipment rendered inoperable until such time as it complies with this Code.
   Section 108.4.1 Replace: This section is replaced as follows:
   The code official shall remove the above-referenced placard whenever the
defect or defects upon which the placarding action were based have been
eliminated. Any person who defaces or removes a condemnation placard without
the approval of the code official shall be in violation of the Kentucky Penal
Code and subject to immediate arrest and applicable penalties.
   Section 108.5 Replace: This section is replaced as follows:
   Any person who shall occupy a placarded premises or shall operate placarded
equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises who shall
let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be
in violation of the Kentucky Penal Code and subject to immediate arrest and
applicable penalties.
   Section 109.5 Replace: This Section is replaced as follows:
   Cost incurred in the performance of emergency work shall by paid by the
City. The City may recover these costs by filing a lien on the property on
which the emergency work was performed and it may recover these costs by
foreclosing on this lien or by taking other appropriate legal action.
   Section 110.2 Replace: This Section replaced as follows:
   All notices and orders shall be issued and served in the same manner as is
set forth in Section 108.
   Section 110.4 Replace: This section is replaced as follows:
   When any structure has been ordered demolished and removed, the City Council
or other designated officer under said contract or arrangement shall have the
right -- but is not required -- to sell the salvage and valuable materials at
the highest price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after deducting
the expenses of such demolition and removal and after the payment of any liens,
fines, or taxes owed on the property, shall be promptly remitted with a report
of such sale or transaction, including the items of expense and the amounts
deducted, for the person who is entitled thereto, subject to any order of a
court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned over, the report shall so
state.
   Section 111 Repeal: This section and all following subsections or
subchapters shall not be adopted.
   Section 112.4 Insert:
   $500.00 entered in the first [AMOUNT] field
   $1,000.00 entered in the second [AMOUNT] field
   Section 302.4 Insert:10 inches entered in the [HEIGHT IN INCHES] field
   Section 302.10 Insert: This Section and its heading shall be added as
follows:
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any premises to permit a public nuisance, health hazard, or
source of filth through the accumulation of: Junked or Wrecked automobiles,
vehicles, machines, junked or inoperable lawn equipment, or other similar scrap
or salvaged materials. This provision does not apply to: Licensed automotive
recycling dealers as described in KRS 190.010(8), Used motor vehicle dealer as
defined in KRS 190.010(6), or Motor vehicle auction dealer as defined in KRS
190.010(11), and any motor vehicle as defined in KRS 281.010 that is owned,
controlled, operated, managed, or leased by a motor carrier.
   Section 303 Repeal: This Section and following subsections shall not be
adopted.
   Section 304.14 Repeal: This Section is not adopted.
   Section 308.2.2 Replace: This subsection and its heading shall be replaced
as follows:
   Refrigerators. Refrigerators and similar equipment not in operation shall
not be discarded, abandoned or stored on premises without first removing the
doors. Additionally, no refrigerators or appliances, intended for indoor use,
shall be outdoors within public right of way view.
   Section 308.4 Insert:   This section and its heading shall be added as
follows:
   No owner of any dwelling shall allow the placing of any furniture not
originally sold new for outdoor use on the exterior of a dwelling.
   Section 404.4.1 Replace: The words “50 square feet (4.6m2)” shall be
replaced with “30 square feet (2.79 m2)”
   Section 602.1 Replace: This Section is replaced as follows:
   Heating facilities shall be provided in structures as required by this
section. Every residential and commercial occupancy shall have a permanent heat
source. A permanent heat source is one in which the power source is either hard
wired or piped into the appropriate utility.
   Section 602.3 Insert:
   September 30th entered in the first [DATE] field
   May 31st entered in the second [DATE] field
   Section 602.4 Insert:
   September 30th entered in the first [DATE] field
   May 31st entered in the second [DATE] field
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-9-17; Am. Ord. 2018-02, passed 11-8-18)
ARTICLE II. BUILDING ADMINISTRATOR
§ 70.100 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY
   The building administrator along with all other officers, agents and
employees of the city shall be, and they are hereby charged with the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 90-02 § 1 (B), 1990)
§ 70.101 ESTABLISHED; DUTIES
   There is established the position of building administrator and the position
of assistant building administrator, whose duties shall be as follows:
   (A)   To enforce the planning and zoning ordinance regulations;
   (B)   To enforce the housing code provisions in this title;
   (C)   To coordinate the inspection of buildings with and by other agencies
in order to assure their compliance with the building and housing codes,
including but not limited to the plumbing inspector, electrical inspector, fire
inspector and city, county and state health officials.
   (D)   To receive building applications and to issue building permits, when
such permits are not required by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under KRS Section
198(B);
   (E)   To carry out such other duties and directions as the Mayor or planning
commissioner shall issue in writing with respect to the performance of this and
other duties;
   (F)   To carry out such other duties as are imposed upon him by Kentucky
Revised Statutes or city ordinances and which may hereafter be delegated to him
by the City Council;
   (G)   The building administrator and assistant building administrator shall
be responsible to the Mayor;
   (H)   The position of assistant building administrator shall remain vacant
until ordered filled by the City Council.
(Ord. 90-02 § 1 (C), 1990)
ARTICLE III. BLIGHTED AND DETERIORATED PROPERTIES CODE
§ 70.200 DEFINITIONS
   “BUILDING ADMINISTRATOR.” The public employee charged with the
administration of the planning and zoning ordinances of the city and his
assistants, if any.
   “PROPERTY REVIEW COMMISSION.” Includes "vacant property review commission"
and means a commission established by this chapter to review orders and
decisions of the building administrator and to review vacant properties for
blight and deterioration and make a written determination of such reviews with
certification thereof to the City Council.
(Ord. 90-02 § 2 (A) (4), 1990)
§ 70.201 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to every lot or tract of land and all
buildings and structures, including mobile homes, together with all
appurtenances attached thereto, whether vacant or occupied.
   (B)   In the event a provision of this code is found to be in conflict with
any existing code, statute, ordinance or regulation of United States, state or
city, the provision which establishes the higher standard shall prevail.
(Ord. 90-02 § 2 (A) (1, 2), 1990)
§ 70.202 BUILDING ADMINISTRATOR; POWERS AND DUTIES
   (A)   The administration of this title shall be the responsibility of the
building administrator, who will work in close cooperation with the chief of
police, chief of the fire department, county and district heath departments and
other officials and agencies and may seek their written or oral opinions
concerning the conditions of lands and buildings, whether vacant or occupied.
   (B)   The building administrator shall be free from personal liability for
all acts done in good faith in the performance of his official duties.
   (C)   Neither the building administrator nor any of his assistants shall
have a financial interest in the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances
for the construction, alteration or maintenance of a building or other
structure, except where he is the owner, and shall not act as agent for real
estate sales, leases and/or rentals.
   (D)   In the performance of his duties the building administrator:
      (1)   Is authorized to conduct surveys and make inspections in any area
of the city to determine compliance with this title or with any other ordinance
he is empowered to enforce or administer;
      (2)   Shall investigate all complaints written or in the nature of a
petition alleging or charging that land or a building or structure is unfit and
unsafe for human habitation or other use or that properties are blighted or
deteriorated;
      (3)   For the purpose of making such surveys, inspections and
investigations, the building administrator is hereby authorized, upon his
identification and statement of purpose, to enter, inspect, survey and
investigate between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., or at any time that
an emergency exists or if requested by the owner or occupant, all lands,
buildings, dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and general premises. The
owner or occupant of same or the person in charge thereof shall give the
building administrator free access to all lands, buildings, dwellings, dwelling
units, rooming units and general premises for the purpose of such inspection,
survey or investigation.
      (4)   Reduce to writing and keep records of all complaints received,
reports of all inspections, surveys and investigations, orders and decisions
issued, and of any other action taken. These records shall, when filed, be open
to public inspection. Annually, the building administrator shall make a written
statistical report to the City Council, based on the records.
(Ord. 92-02 § 2 (A) (5), 1990)
§ 70.203 PROPERTY REVIEW COMMISSION; CREATION; POWERS AND DUTIES
   (A)   Membership and Terms. There is created a property review commission
consisting of five (5) members appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City
Council. It is recommended that the membership of this commission consist of
one (1) physician or public health nurse, one (1) realtor or representative of
a real estate mortgage lending institution, one (1) architect, engineer or
contractor and two (2) members from the city at large. Of the members first
appointed, two shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year, two (2) for a
term of two (2) years, and one (1) for a term of three (3) years, and at the
expiration of these staggered terms, all members shall be appointed for terms
of four (4) years. Vacancies shall be filled for an unexpired term so as to
expire in the manner in which the original term would have expired. Continuous
or frequent absences of a member from regular or special meetings of the
commission shall, at the discretion of the Mayor, render such member liable for
immediate removal from office, which office shall be declared vacant.
   (B)   Quorum. Three (3) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum.
In conducting the business of the commission, three (3) or more affirmative
votes shall be required.
   (C)   Chairman. The members of the commission shall elect one (1) member as
chairman. The commission shall have the power to administer oaths, and
affirmations, examine witnesses and receive evidence.
   (D)   Rules and Regulations. The commission shall establish rules and
regulations for its procedure that are not inconsistent with provisions of this
title.
   (E)   Appeals Procedure. Except as otherwise provided in this title, any
person affected by any decision or order of the building administrator may
appeal to the property review commission by filing a written notice of appeal
together with a copy of the decision or order within ten (10) days after the
date of the decision or order appealed from. After a hearing, the commission
may affirm, reject or modify the decision or order or may remand the matter to
the building administrator for additional action. The decision of the
commission shall be final subject to any remedy that the aggrieved person has
under law. The decision shall be in writing and filed in the records of the
building administrator with a copy, duly certified by the building
administrator, given to any aggrieved party. The owner will then have ten (10)
days from the notice of the decision to initiate remedial action unless a
longer time is allotted by the commission. Pursuant to KRS 99.700 et. seq.,
eminent domain proceedings may be initiated following ninety (90) days from the
date of note.
   (F)   Variance. Where, because of conditions peculiar to a tract of land or
to a building or other structure it would be unreasonably difficult to meet the
literal requirements of this code, a variance may be granted by the commission.
A written application for the variance shall be filed with and in the records
of the building administrator which shall fully state the variance requested
and the reasons that such variance only where it finds that this code cannot be
reasonably complied with and where it is evident that safety and sanitation
will be and continue to be present.
   (G)   Meeting Records. The hearings held by the commission need not be
reported, but one (1) member of the commission shall be designated at each
hearing, or the secretary of the commission should one be provided, shall make
a list of all aggrieved persons and whether they are present or absent and a
list of all witnesses present who testify or offer to testify and whether each
of them is in favor or against the issue or matter before the commission for
the hearing. Nothing herein shall prevent any party, at their discretion and
expense, from having the hearing reported by a reporter either by manual means
or by tape. However, prior to any hearing to be so reported, the reporter shall
be sworn to well and truly make a complete records of all proceedings,
transcribe same if manually reported, and file the original transcript or tape
with and in the records of the building administrator.
(Ord. 90-02 § 2 (A) (6), 1990)
§ 70.204 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
   Notices, complaints, decisions and orders required to be served in this
title shall be served upon the persons designated either personally or by
certified mail with restricted delivery and return receipt at the last known
address of the person or persons to be served. If the whereabouts of any person
or persons to be served are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the
building administrator in the exercise of due diligence, the building
administrator shall make an affidavit to that effect and the service of same
shall be made by publishing the same once a week for two (2) successive weeks
in a daily or weekly newspaper of general circulation in the city and posting a
copy of same in a conspicuous place in or on the premises affected by the
notice, complaint, decision or order and recording a certified copy in the
appropriate notice record book in the office of the clerk of the county.
(Ord. 90-02 § 2 (A) (7), 1990)
§ 70.205 STATUTES ADOPTED
   Except where in conflict with the provisions of this title, the provisions
of KRS 99.705 to and including KRS 99.730, by reference, are hereby adopted in
full and as hereafter from time to time amended as a portion of this title as
if written and copied herein in length and in words and figures as set forth in
the statutes, a copy of which is attached to the ordinance codified in this
title and made a part hereof as if copied herein in full.
(Ord. 90-02 § 2 (A) (8), 1990)
CHAPTER 71: HOUSING DISCRIMINATION
   
71.001   Policy
   
71.002   Definitions
   
71.003   Unlawful practice
   
71.004   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
71.005   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
71.006   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
71.007   Exemption
   
71.008   Administration
   
71.009   Education; conciliation
   
71.010   Enforcement
   
71.011   Investigations; subpoenas; giving of evidence
   
71.012   Enforcement by private persons
   
71.013   Interference; coercion; intimidation
   
71.014   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
 
   
71.999   Penalty
§ 71.001 POLICY
   It is the policy of the city to provide, with constitutional limitations,
for fair housing throughout the city.
(Ord. 89-05 § 1, 1989)
§ 71.002 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or clearly requires a different meaning.
   "DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE." An act that is unlawful under §§
71.003,
71.004 or
71.005.
   "DWELLING." Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied
as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one (1) or more
families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location thereon of any such building, structure or portion
thereof.
   "FAMILY." Includes a single individual.
   "PERSON." Includes one (1) or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
   "TO RENT." Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the right to occupy premises owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 89-05 § 2, 1989)
§ 71.003 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE
   Subject to the provisions of subsection (B) herein and §
71.007, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or rental of
housing set forth in this section shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by subsection (B);
   (B)   Nothing in §
71.004 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner provided:
         (a)   That such private individual owner does not own more than three
(3) such single-family houses at any one time;
          (b)   That in the case of the sale of any such single-family house by
a private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of the sale or
who was not the most recent resident of the house prior to the sale, the
exempted granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such
sale within any twenty-four (24) month period;
         (c)   That such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of, more than three (3) such single-family houses at
any one time;
         (d)   That the sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from the application of this title only if the house is sold or
rented:
            (i)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent or
salesman, or of such facilities or dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, salesman or person; and
            (ii)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
71.004(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four (4) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purpose of subsection (B) above, a person shall be deemed to
be in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   He has, within the preceding twelve (12) months, participated as
agent, other than in the sale of his own personal residence in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest
therein; or
      (3)   He is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy
by, or occupied by, five (5) or more families.
(Ord. 89-05 § 3, 1989)
§ 71.004 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING
   As made applicable by §
71.003, and except as exempted by §§
71.003(B) and
71.007, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, disability or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
familial status, disability or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, familial status, disability or national origin,
or any intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or
rental when the dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, familial status, disability or national origin.
(Ord. 89-05 § 4, 1989; Amended during 1993 codification)
§ 71.005 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the
purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a
dwelling, or to discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest
rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial
assistance, because of the race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
disability or national origin of such person or of any person associated with
him in connection with the loan or other financial assistance of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
in relation to which the loan or other financial assistance is to be made or
given, provided that nothing contained in this section shall impair the scope
or effectiveness of the exception contained in §
71.003(B).
(Ord. 89-05 § 5, 1989; Amended during 1993 codification)
§ 71.006 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES
   It is unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers organization or other
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of
such access, membership or participation, on account of race, color, religion,
sex, familial status, disability or national origin.
(Ord. 89-05 § 6, 1989; Amended during 1993 codification)
§ 71.007 EXEMPTION
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization, association
or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated, supervised
or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association
or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it
owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, disability or national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter
prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for
occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its
members.
(Ord. 89-05 § 7, 1989; Amended during 1993 codification)
§ 71.008 ADMINISTRATION
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for administering this chapter shall
be in the Mayor of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor may delegate any of these functions, duties and powers to
employees of the city or to boards of such employees, including functions,
duties and powers with respect to investigating, conciliation, hearings,
determining, ordering, certifying, reporting, or otherwise acting as to any
work, business or matter under this chapter. The Mayor shall, by rule,
prescribe the rights of appeal from the decisions of his hearing examiners to
other hearing examiners or to other officers in the city, to boards of officers
or to himself, as shall be appropriate and in accordance with law.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies shall administer their programs
and activities relating to housing and urban development in a manner
affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter and shall cooperate with
the Mayor to further such purposes.
(Ord. 89-05 § 8, 1989)
§ 71.009 EDUCATION; CONCILIATION
   Immediately after the enactment of this chapter, the Mayor shall commence
such educational and conciliatory activities as will further the purposes of
this chapter. He shall call conferences of persons in the housing industry and
other interested parties to acquaint them with the provisions of this chapter
and his suggested means of implementing it, and shall endeavor with their
advice to work out programs of voluntary compliance and of enforcement.
(Ord. 89-05 § 9, 1989)
§ 71.010 ENFORCEMENT
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (hereinafter "person
aggrieved") may file a complaint with the Mayor. Complaints shall be in writing
and shall contain such information and be in such form as the Mayor requires.
Upon receipt of such a complaint, the Mayor shall furnish a copy of the same to
the person or persons who allegedly committed or are about to commit the
alleged discriminatory housing practice. Within thirty (30) days after
receiving a complaint, or within thirty (30) days after the expiration of any
period of reference under subsection (C), the Mayor shall investigate the
complaint and give notice, in writing, to the person aggrieved whether he
intends to resolve it. If the Mayor decides to resolve the complaint, he shall
proceed to try to eliminate or correct the alleged discriminatory housing
practice by informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion.
Nothing said or done in the course of such informal endeavors may be made
public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this chapter
without the written consent of the persons concerned. Any employee of the Mayor
who shall make public any information in violation of this provision shall be
subject to the penalties set forth in §
71.999.
   (B)   A complaint under subsection (A) shall be filed within one hundred
eighty (180) days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred.
Complaints shall be in writing and shall state the facts upon which the
allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based. Complaints may be
reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may file an answer to
the complaint against him and with the leave of the Mayor, which shall be
granted whenever it be would be reasonable and fair to do so, may amend his
answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall be verified.
   (C)   If within thirty (30) days after a complaint is filed with the Mayor,
the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter, the
person aggrieved may, within thirty (30) days thereafter, file a complaint with
the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Mayor
will assist in this filing.
   (D)   If the Mayor has been unable to obtain voluntary compliance within
thirty (30) days of the complaint, the person aggrieved may, within thirty (30)
days thereafter, commence a civil action in any appropriate court, against the
respondent named in the complaint, to enforce the rights granted or protected
by this chapter, insofar as such rights relate to the subject of the complaint.
If the court finds that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred, or is
about to occur, the Mayor may enjoin the respondent from engaging in such
practice or order such affirmative action as may be appropriate.
   (E)   In any proceeding brought pursuant to this section, the burden of
proof shall be on the complainant.
   (F)   Whenever an action filed by an individual shall come to trial, the
Mayor shall immediately terminate all efforts to obtain voluntary compliance.
(Ord. 89-05 § 10, 1989; Am. Ord. 92-08 § 1, 1992)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
71.999
§ 71.011 INVESTIGATIONS; SUBPOENAS; GIVING OF EVIDENCE
   (A)   In conducting an investigation, the Mayor shall have access at all
reasonable times to premises, records, documents, individuals and other
evidence or possible sources of evidence and may examine, record and copy such
materials and take and record the testimony or statements of such persons as
are reasonably necessary for the furtherance of the investigation; provided,
however, that the Mayor first complies with the provisions of the Fourth
Amendment relating to unreasonable searches and seizures. The Mayor may issue
subpoenas to compel his access to or the production of such materials, or the
appearance of such persons, and may issue interrogatories to a respondent, to
the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the
subpoenas or interrogatories were issued or served in aid of a civil action in
the United States District Court for the district in which the investigation is
taking place. The Mayor may administer oaths.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Mayor, a respondent shall be entitled
to the issuance of a reasonable number of subpoenas by and in the name of the
Mayor to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as subpoenas
issued by the Mayor himself. Subpoenas issued at the request of a respondent
shall show on their face the name and address of the respondent and shall state
that they were issued at his request.
   (C)   Witnesses summoned by subpoena of the Mayor shall be entitled to the
same witness and mileage fees as are witnesses in proceedings in United States
District Courts. Fees payable to a witness summoned by a subpoena issued at the
request of a respondent shall be paid by him.
   (D)   Within five (5) days after service of a subpoena upon any person, the
person may petition the Mayor to revoke or modify the subpoena. The Mayor shall
grant the petition if he finds that the subpoena requires appearance or
attendance at an unreasonable time or place, that it requires production of
evidence which does not relate to any matter under investigation, that it does
not describe, with sufficient particularity, the evidence to be produced, that
the compliance would be unduly onerous, or for other good reason.
   (E)   In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena, the Mayor or other
person at whose request it was issued may petition for its enforcement in the
municipal or state court for the district in which the person to whom the
subpoena was addressed resides, was served or transacts business.
   (F)   (1)   Any person who willfully fails or neglects to attend and testify
or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce records, documents, or other
evidence, if in his power to do so, in obedience to the subpoena or lawful
order of the Mayor shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
71.999.
      (2)   Any person who, with intent thereby to mislead the Mayor, shall
make or cause to be made any false entry or statement of fact in any report,
account, record or other document submitted to the Mayor pursuant to his
subpoena or other order, or shall willfully neglect or fail to make or cause to
be made full, true and correct entries in such reports, accounts, records or
other documents, or shall willfully mutilate, alter or by any other means
falsify any documentary evidence, shall be subject to the penalties set forth
in §
71.999.
   (G)   The City Attorney shall conduct all litigation in which the Mayor
participates as a party or as amicus pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 89-05 § 11, 1989; Amended during 1993 codification)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
71.999
§ 71.012 ENFORCEMENT BY PRIVATE PERSONS
   (A)   The rights granted by §§
71.003 -
71.006 may be enforced by civil actions in state or local courts of general
jurisdiction. A civil action shall be commenced within one hundred eighty (180)
days after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred; provided,
however, that the court shall continue the civil case brought pursuant to this
section or §
71.010(D) from time to time before bringing it to trial if the court believes
that the conciliation efforts of the Mayor are likely to result in satisfactory
settlement of the discriminatory housing practice complained of in the
complaint made to the Mayor and which practice forms the basis for the action
in court. And provided, however, that any sale, encumbrance or rental
consummated prior to the issuance of any court order issued under the authority
of this chapter, and involving a bona fide purchaser, encumbrancer or tenant
without actual notice of the existence of the filing of a complaint or civil
action under the provisions of this chapter shall not be affected.
   (B)   The court may grant as relief, as it deems appropriate, any permanent
or temporary injunction, temporary restraining order, or other order, and may
award to the plaintiff actual damages and not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) punitive damages, together with court cost and reasonable attorney
fees in the case of a prevailing plaintiff; provided, that the plaintiff, in
the opinion of the court, is not financially able to assume the attorney's
fees.
(Ord. 89-05 § 12, 1989)
§ 71.013 INTERFERENCE; COERCION; INTIMIDATION
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
71.003 -
71.006. This section may be enforced by appropriate civil action.
(Ord. 89-05 § 13, 1989)
§ 71.014 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES
   Whoever, whether or not acting under color of law, by force or threat of
force, willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion or national origin and
because he is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or
contracting or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or
occupation of any dwelling or applying for or participating in any service,
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion or national origin, in any of the activities, services, organizations
or facilities described in subsection (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, familial status, disability or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in subsection (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to so participate shall be subject to the penalties set forth
in §
71.999.
(Ord. 89-05 § 15, 1989; Am. Ord. 92-08 § 2, 1992; Amended during 1993
codification)
______________
Cross reference:
   Penalty for violation, see §
71.999
§ 71.999 PENALTY
   (A)   Any employee of the Mayor who shall make public any information in
violation of §
71.010 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than one (1)
year.
(Ord. 92-08 § 1, 1992; Ord. 89-05 § 10, 1989)
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
71.011(F)(1) and §
71.011(F)(2) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than one (1)
year, or both.
(Ord. 89-05 § 11, 1989)
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
71.014 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than one (1) year, or
both; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than one (1) year, or both.
(Ord. 89-05 § 15, 1989; Am. Ord. 92-08 § 2, 1992)
CHAPTER 72: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
72.001   Standards of Safety adopted by reference
   
72.002   Designated enforcement officer
   
72.003   Appeal process
§ 72.001 STANDARDS OF SAFETY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   The Kentucky Standards of Safety (Fire Prevention Code), as promulgated in
815 KAR 10:040 by the commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction on the advice and recommendation of the state fire marshal, is
hereby adopted in full by reference, as if fully set out herein. Copies of the
code book are available through the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction, 1047 U.S. 127 South, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 5-11-95)
______________
Cross reference:
   Kentucky Building Code, adoption of, see §
70.001
§ 72.002 DESIGNATED ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
   An officer shall be designated as the local enforcement agent/agency for the
Standards of Safety as appointed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 5-11-95)
§ 72.003 APPEAL PROCESS
   All final decisions of the fire code official shall be appealable to a local
appeals board pursuant to the procedures adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 5-11-95)
CHAPTER 73: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
73.001   Definitions
   
73.002   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
73.003   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
73.004   Establishment of development permit
   
73.005   Compliance
   
73.006   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
73.007   Interpretation
   
73.008   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
73.009   Enforcement and violation notice
ARTICLE II.   ADMINISTRATION
   
73.100   Designation of local administrator
   
73.101   Establishment of development permit
   
73.102   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
ARTICLE III.   PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
   
73.200   General construction standards
   
73.201   Specific standards
   
73.202   Standards for streams without established base flood elevation
(unnumbered A zones) and/or floodways
   
73.203   Standards for shallow flooding zones
   
73.204   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
73.205   Standards for accessory structures in all zones beginning with the
letter “A”
   
73.206   Critical facilities
ARTICLE IV.   APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES
   
73.300   Nature of variances
   
73.301   Designation of Variance and Appeal Board
   
73.302   Duties of Variance and Appeal Board
   
73.303   Appeals/variance procedures
   
73.304   Conditions for variances
   
73.305   Variance notification
   
73.306   Historic structures
   
73.307   No impact certification within the floodway
 
   
73.999   Penalty
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.001 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “A ZONE.” Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principal source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A zones, floodwaters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to structures. Areas of one hundred
(100) -year flood, base flood elevations and flood hazard factors are not
determined.
   “ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE).” A structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principal structure, the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and should be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of
accessory structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns,
and hay sheds.
   “ACCESSORY USE.” A use, which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   “ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE).” Any walled and roofed expansion to
the perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common
load-bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which
is connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-
bearing walls, is new construction.
   “A1-30 AND AE ZONES.” Special Flood Hazard Areas inundated by the one
percent (1%) annual chance flood (100-year flood). Base flood elevations (BFEs)
are determined.
   “AH ZONE.” An area of one hundred (100) -year shallow flooding where depths
are between one (1) and three (3) feet (usually shallow ponding). Base flood
elevations are shown.
   “AO ZONE.” An area of one hundred (100) -year shallow flooding where water
depth is between one (1) and three (3) feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain) flood depths are shown.
   “APPEAL.” A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or from the floodplain
administrator's ruling on a request for a variance.
   “AR/A1 - A30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO AND AR/A ZONES.” Special Flood Hazard
Areas (SFHAs) that result from the de-certification of a previously accredited
flood protection system that is in the process of being restored to provide a
one hundred (100) -year or greater level of flood protection. After restoration
is complete these areas will still experience residual flooding from other
flooding sources.
   “A99 ZONE.” That part of the SFHA inundated by the one hundred (100) -year
flood which is to be protected from the one hundred (100) -year flood by a
federal flood protection system under construction. No base flood elevations
are determined.
   “AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.” A designated AO or AH Zone on a community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) where the base flood depths range from one (1)
to three (3) feet, there is no clearly defined channel, the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   “B AND X ZONES (SHADED).” Areas of the two tenths percent (0.2%) annual
chance (five hundred (500) -year) flood, areas subject to the one hundred (100)
-year flood with average depths of less than one (1) foot or with contributing
drainage area less than one (1) square mile, and areas protected by levees from
the base flood.
   “BASE FLOOD.” A flood, which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year (also called the "one hundred (100) -year
flood"). Base flood is the term used throughout this chapter.
   “BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).” The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map (FIRM) for Zones AE, AH, A1-30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/Al-A30, AR/AH, and
AR/AO that indicates the water surface elevation resulting from a flood that
has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   “BASEMENT.” That portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all four (4) sides.
   “BUILDING.” A walled and roofed structure that is principally aboveground;
including a manufactured home, gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made
facility or infrastructure. See definition for structure.
   “C AND X (UNSHADED) ZONES.” Areas determined to be outside the five hundred
(500) -year floodplain.
   “COMMUNITY.” A political entity having the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   “COMMUNITY FLOOD HAZARD AREA (CFHA).” An area that has been determined by
the Floodplain Administrator (or other delegated, designated, or qualified
community official) from available technical studies, historical information,
and other available and reliable sources, which may be subject to periodic
inundation by floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety
and general welfare. Included are areas downstream from dams.
   “COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS).” A program developed by the Federal
Insurance Administration to provide incentives to those communities in the
Regular Program to go beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures for protection from flooding.
   “CRITICAL FACILITY.” Any property that, if flooded, would result in severe
consequences to public health and safety or a facility which, if unusable or
unreachable because of flooding, would seriously and adversely affect the
health and safety of the public. Critical facilities include, but are not
limited to: housing likely to contain occupants not sufficiently mobile to
avoid injury or death unaided during a flood; schools, nursing homes,
hospitals, police, fire and emergency response installations, vehicle and
equipment storage facilities, emergency operations centers likely to be called
upon before, during and after a flood, public and private utility facilities
important to maintaining or restoring normal services before, during and after
a flood, and those facilities or installations which produce, use or store
volatile, flammable, explosive, toxic and/or water-reactive materials,
hazardous materials or hazardous waste.
   “D ZONE.” An area in which the flood hazard is undetermined.
   “DEVELOPMENT.” Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations, or permanent storage
of materials or equipment.
   “ELEVATED STRUCTURE.” A non-basement structure built to have the lowest
floor elevated above ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, piling, columns (post and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls. (See
freeboard requirements for residential and non-residential structures.)
   “ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.” A statement certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor on the FEMA-approved form in effect at the time of
certification that verifies a structure's elevation and other related
information to verify compliance with this chapter.
   “EMERGENCY PROGRAM.” The initial phase under which a community participates
in the NFIP, intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   “ENCLOSURE.” That portion of a structure below the Base Flood Elevation
(BFE) used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
structure.
   “ENCROACHMENT.” The physical advance or infringement of uses, plant growth,
fill, excavation, structures, permanent structures or development into a
floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   “EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.” Any structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for
FIRMs effective before that date. "EXISTING CONSTRUCTION" may also be referred
to as "Existing structures".
   “EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   “EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   “FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD.” The flood that has a two tenths percent (.2%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any year. Areas subject to the FIVE
HUNDRED (500) -YEAR FLOOD have a moderate to low risk of flooding.
   “FLOOD, FLOODING, OR FLOOD WATER.”
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters; the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or mudslides (i.e. mudflows). See Mudslides.
      (2)   The condition resulting from flood-related erosion. See flood-
related erosion.
   “FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM).”  A map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and the regulatory floodway.
   “FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).” A map on which the boundaries of the
flood, mudslide (i.e. mudflow), and flood-related erosion areas having special
hazards have been designated as Zones A, M, and/or E by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA).
   “FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).” A map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has
delineated special flood hazard areas and risk premium zones.
   “FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.”  The report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) containing
flood profiles, the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), and/or the Flood Boundary
Floodway Map (FBFM), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   “FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA.” Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by flood waters from any source.
   “FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.” The individual appointed by a NFIP participating
community to administer and enforce the floodplain management ordinances.
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.” The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing
natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management ordinances, and
open space plans.
   “FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.” This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances (such as grading and erosion control), and other
applications of police power, which control development in flood-prone areas.
This term describes federal, state and/or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   “FLOODPROOFING.” Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   “FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.” A certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect, on a FEMA approved form in effect at the time of
certification stating that a non-residential structure, together with attendant
utilities and sanitary facilities is watertight to a specified design elevation
with walls that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water and all
structural components are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   “FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot. Also
referred to as the "regulatory floodway".
   “FLOODWAY FRINGE.” That area of the floodplain on either side of the
regulatory floodway where encroachment may be permitted without additional
hydraulic and/or hydroponic analysis.
   “FRAUD AND VICTIMIZATION.” As related in §§
73.300 -
73.307, means that the variance granted must not cause fraud on or
victimization of the public. In examining this requirement, the Morgantown City
Council and the City Planning and Zoning Committee will consider the fact that
every newly constructed structure adds to government responsibilities and
remains a part of the community for fifty (50) to one hundred (100) years.
Structures that are permitted to be constructed below the base flood elevation
are subject during all those years to increased risk of damage from floods,
while future owners of the property and the community as a whole are subject to
all the costs, inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood
damages may incur. In addition, future owners may purchase the property,
unaware that it is subject to potential flood damage, and can be insured only
at very high flood insurance rates.
   “FREEBOARD.” A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood. Freeboard must be applied not
just to the elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofing level, but also to
the level of protection provided to all components of the structure, such as
building utilities, HVAC components, etc.
   “FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE FACILITY.” A facility, structure, or other
development, which cannot be used for its intended purpose unless it is located
or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only a docking or
port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers,
shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood processing facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   “GOVERNING BODY.” The local governing unit, i.e. county or municipality that
is empowered to adopt and implement ordinances to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   “HAZARD POTENTIAL.” The possible adverse incremental consequences that
result from the release of water or stored contents due to failure of a dam or
misoperation of a dam or appurtenances. The hazard potential classification of
a dam does not reflect in any way the current condition of a dam and its
appurtenant structures (e.g., safety, structural integrity, flood routing
capacity).
   “HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   “HISTORIC STRUCTURE.” Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior, or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   “INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).”   
      (1)   Increased cost of compliance coverage provides for the payment of a
claim for the cost to comply with State or community floodplain management laws
or ordinances after a direct physical loss by flood. When a building covered by
a Standard Flood Insurance Policy under the NFIP sustains a loss and the state
or community declares the building to be substantially or repetitively damaged,
ICC will help pay up to $30,000.00 for the cost to elevate, floodproof,
demolish, or remove the building.
      (2)   ICC coverage is available on residential and non-residential
buildings (this category includes public or government buildings, such as
schools, libraries, and municipal buildings) insured under the NFIP.
   “KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTE 151.250.” Plans for dams, levees, etc. to be
approved and permit issued by cabinet - (Environmental and Public Protection
Cabinet)
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person and no city,
county, or other political subdivision of the state, including levee districts,
drainage districts, flood control districts or systems, or similar bodies,
shall commence the construction, reconstruction, relocation or improvement of
any dam, embankment, levee, dike, bridge, fill or other obstruction (except
those constructed by the Department of Highways) across or along any stream, or
in the floodway of any stream, unless the plans and specifications for such
work have been submitted by the person or political subdivision responsible for
the construction, reconstruction or improvement and such plans and
specifications have been approved in writing by the cabinet and a permit
issued. However, the cabinet by regulation may exempt those dams, embankments
or other obstructions which are not of such size or type as to require approval
by the cabinet in the interest of safety or retention of water supply.
      (2)   No person, city, county or other political subdivision of the state
shall commence the filling of any area with earth, debris, or any other
material, or raise the level of any area in any manner, or place a building,
barrier or obstruction of any sort on any area located adjacent to a river or
stream or in the floodway of the stream so that such filling, raising or
obstruction will in any way affect the flow of water in the channel or in the
floodway of the stream unless plans and specifications for such work have been
submitted to and approved by the cabinet and a permit issued as required in
division (A) above.
      (3)   Nothing in this section is intended to give the cabinet any
jurisdiction or control over the construction, reconstruction, improvement,
enlargement, maintenance or operation of any drainage district, ditch, or
system established for agricultural purposes, or to require approval of the
same except where such obstruction of the stream or floodway is determined by
the cabinet to be a detriment or hindrance to the beneficial use of water
resources in the area, and the person or political subdivision in control
thereof so notified. The Kentucky Bureau of Surface Mining through KRS Chapter
350 shall have exclusive jurisdiction over KRS Chapter 151 concerning the
regulation of dams, levees, embankments, dikes, bridges, fills, or other
obstructions across or along any stream or in the floodway of any stream which
structures are permitted under KRS Chapter 350 for surface coal mining
operations.
   “KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTE 151.320. OFFICERS REQUIRED TO ENFORCE LAW.”
      (1)   The Mayor or chief executive officer of each city and the county
judge/executive of each county shall have the concurrent duty of enforcing with
the cabinet, within their respective cities and counties, the provisions of KRS
151.250, 151.280 and 151.310 and rules and regulations issued thereunder.
      (2)   When a violation of KRS 151.250, 151.280 or 151.310 within his
jurisdiction is brought to the attention of a mayor or chief executive officer
of a city or a county judge/executive, he shall immediately notify the cabinet
of the location and details of such violation.
   “LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).” Is an official FEMA determination, by letter,
to amend or revise effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and
Floodway Maps, and Flood Insurance Studies. LOMC's include the following
categories:
      (1)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) . A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated SFHA. A LOMA
amends the current effective FIRM and establishes that a specific property is
not located in a SFHA.
      (2)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features.
      (3)   Letter of Map Revision - Fill (LOMR F). A determination that a
structure or parcel has been elevated by properly placed engineered fill above
the BFE and is, therefore, excluded from the SHFA.
   “LEVEE.” A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   “LEVEE SYSTEM.” A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
For a levee system to be recognized, the following criteria must be met:
      (1)   All closure devices or mechanical systems for internal drainage,
whether manual or automatic, must be operated in accordance with an officially
adopted operation manual (a copy of which must be provided to FEMA by the
operator when levee or drainage system recognition is being sought or revised).
      (2)   All operations must be under the jurisdiction of a federal or state
agency, an agency created by federal or state law, or an agency of a community
participating in the NFIP.
   “LIMITED STORAGE.” An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items which can withstand exposure to the elements and have low
flood damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant material, void
of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
   “LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.” The elevation of the sidewalk, patio, deck support,
or basement entryway immediately next to the structure and after the completion
of construction. It does not include earth that is emplaced for aesthetic or
landscape reasons around a foundation wall. It does include natural ground or
properly compacted fill that comprises a component of a structure's foundation
system.
   “LOWEST FLOOR.” The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, structure access, or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a structure's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   “MANUFACTURED HOME.” A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or
without a permanent foundation when connected or attached to the required
utilities. The term also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and similar
transportable structures placed on a site for one hundred and eighty (180)
consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved property. The term
"MANUFACTURED HOME" does not include a "recreational vehicle" (see Recreational
Vehicle).
   “MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   “MAP.” The Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or the Flood Insurance Rate Map
(FIRM) for a community issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA).
   “MAP PANEL NUMBER.” The four (4)-digit number on a flood map, followed by a
letter suffix, assigned by FEMA. The first four (4) digits represent the map
panel. The letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been
revised. (The letter "A" is not used by FEMA, the letter "B" is the first
revision.)
   “MARKET VALUE.” The structure value, excluding the land (as agreed between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. Market value can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of structure (Actual Cash Value) or
adjusted assessed values.
   “MEAN SEA LEVEL (MSL).” The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide. For the purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the MSL is used
as a reference for establishing various elevations within the floodplain as
shown on a community's FIRM. For purposes of this chapter, the term is
synonymous with either National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) 1929 or North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) 1988.
   “MITIGATION.” Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
mitigation is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
costs of disaster response and recovery.
   “MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW).” Describes a condition where there is a river,
flow, or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside, usually as a result of a
dual condition of loss of brush cover and the subsequent accumulation of water
on the ground, preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e. mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is
in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Floodplain Administrator
only if the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage
that occurs.
   “MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT.”  The operation of and overall
program of corrective and preventative measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.
mudflow) damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works, and floodplain management regulations.
   “MUDSLIDE (I.E. MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA.” An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   “NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).” The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   “NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).” As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used as the vertical datum on the older FIRM's. Refer to
FIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   “NEW CONSTRUCTION.” Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of Morgantown's floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   “NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.” A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of Morgantown's adopted floodplain management ordinances.
   “NON-RESIDENTIAL.” Structures that are not designed for human habitation,
including but is not limited to: small business concerns, churches, schools,
farm structures (including grain bins and silos), pool houses, clubhouses,
recreational structures, mercantile structures, agricultural and industrial
structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room rentals for less
than six (6) months duration.
   “NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD).” As corrected in 1988, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain. (Generally used on the newer FIRM's and Digitally Referenced FIRM's
(DFIRM's). Refer to FIRM or DFIRM legend panel for correct datum.)
   “OBSTRUCTION.” Includes but is not limited to any dam, wall, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, structure, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, due to its location, its propensity to snare or
collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being carried
downstream.
   “ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD) (SEE BASE FLOOD).” The flood that
has a one percent (1%) or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Any flood zone that begins with the letter A is subject to the one-
hundred (100) -year flood. Over the life of a thirty (30) -year loan, there is
a twenty-six percent (26%) chance of experiencing such a flood with the SFHA.
   “PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY.” A community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   “PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.” Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   “POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.” Construction or substantial improvement that
started on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   “PROBATION.” A means of formally notifying participating NFIP communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations. During periods of probation, each insurance
policy is subject to a fifty dollar ($50.00) surcharge.
   “PROGRAM DEFICIENCY.” A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management standards or of the standards of 44 CFR 60.3,
60.4, 60.5, and/or 60.6.
   “PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE.” Anything which is injurious to safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.” A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   “REGULAR PROGRAM.”  The phase of a community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   “REGULATORY FLOODWAY.” The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
See Base Flood.
   “REMEDY A VIOLATION.” The process by which a community brings a structure or
other development into compliance with state or local floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impact of non-
compliance. Reduced impact may include protecting the structure or other
affected development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement
provisions of this chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or
reducing state or federal financing exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
   “REPAIR.” The reconstruction or renewal of any part of an existing
structure.
   “REPETITIVE LOSS.”  Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two or
more separate occasions during a ten (10) -year period where the value of
damages equals or exceeds an average of fifty percent (50%) of the current
value of the structure, beginning on the date when the damage first occurred,
or, four or more flood losses of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more over
the life of the structure, or, three (3) or more flood losses over the life of
the structure that are equal to or greater than the current value of the
structure.
   “RIVERINE.” Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   “SECTION 1316.” That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new or renewal flood insurance coverage shall be
provided for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a
duly constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public
body to be in violation of state or local laws, regulations, or ordinances that
are intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy
in flood-prone areas.
   “SHEET FLOW AREA.” See "Area of shallow flooding".
   “SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).” That portion of the floodplain subject
to inundation by the base flood and/or flood-related erosion hazards as shown
on a FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, Al - A30, AH, AO, or AR.
   “START OF CONSTRUCTION (INCLUDES SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT AND OTHER PROPOSED
NEW DEVELOPMENT).” The date a building permit is issued, provided the actual
start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement or other improvement is within one hundred and eighty (180) days of
the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure (including manufactured home) on a site, such as
the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
the installation on the property of accessory structures, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure.
   “STRUCTURE.” A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground;
including manufactured homes, gas or liquid storage tanks, or other man-made
facilities or infrastructures. See Building.
   “SUBDIVISION.” Any division, for the purposes of sale, lease, or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions, of any tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots
or parcels.
   “SUBROGATION.” An action brought by FEMA to recover insurance money paid out
where all or part of the damage can be attributed to acts or omissions by a
community or other third party.
   “SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.” Means any damage to a building for which the cost of
repairs equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
building prior to the damage occurring. This term includes structures that are
categorized as repetitive loss.
   For the purposes of this definition, "repair" is considered to occur when
the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences.
   The term does not apply to:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with
existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions, or
      (2)   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".
   “SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.” Means any combination of reconstruction,
alteration, or improvement to a building, taking place during a five (5) -year
period in which the cumulative percentage of improvement equals or exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the current market value of the building. For the
purposes of this definition, an improvement occurs when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   The term does not apply to:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply with
existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions, or
      (2)   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure," or
      (3)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   “SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS.”
Repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equaling or exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the value of
the streets, utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or
improvement commenced.
   “SUSPENSION.” Removal of a participating community from the NFIP for failure
to enact and/or enforce floodplain management regulations required for
participation in the NFIP. New or renewal flood insurance policies are no
longer available in suspended communities.
   “UTILITIES.” Includes electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment.
   “VARIANCE.” Relief from some or all of the requirements of this chapter.
   “VIOLATION.” Failure of a structure or other development to fully comply
with this chapter. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   “WATER SURFACE ELEVATION.” The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   “WATERCOURSE.” A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which water flows at least periodically.
   “WATERSHED.” All the area within a geographic boundary from which water,
sediments, dissolved materials, and other transportable materials drain or are
carried by water to a common outlet, such as a point on a larger stream, lake,
or underlying aquifer.
   “X ZONE.” The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a two tenths (0.2) -percent probability
of being equaled or exceeded (the five hundred (500) -year flood) in any year.
Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMS) designate areas where the annual
exceedance probability of flooding is less than two tenths percent (0.2%).
   “ZONE.”  A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or a Flood
Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 2, 2005)
§ 73.002 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHA) and, as
determined by the Floodplain Administrator or other delegated, designated, or
qualified community official as determined by the Morgantown City Council of
Morgantown from available technical studies, historical information, and other
available and reliable sources, areas within the jurisdiction of the City
Council of Morgantown which may be subject to perio dic inundation by
floodwaters that can adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of Morgantown, KY.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 3 § A, 2005)
§ 73.003 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
   Currently, the city does not have effective Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRMs). The city will use flood hazard data from local, state and federal
sources as best available data in order to manage the community's flood hazard
areas. Any data that is available can be viewed during regular business hours
at the Morgantown City Hall at 117 North Main Street, Morgantown.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 3 § B, 2005)
§ 73.004 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
   (A)   A Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the
provision of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in the special flood hazard areas (SFHA). See §
73.101 for instructions and explanation.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 3 § C, 2005)
§ 73.005 COMPLIANCE
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable state regulations. Violation of the
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Nothing herein
shall prevent the city from taking such lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 3 § D, 2005)
§ 73.006 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 3 § E, 2005)
§ 73.007 INTERPRETATION
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,
   (C)    Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 3 § F, 2005)
§ 73.008 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the City Council of Morgantown, any
officer or employee, the Commonwealth of Kentucky, the Federal Insurance
Administration, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 3 § G, 2005)
§ 73.009 ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION NOTICE
   (A)   Civil offense. If, at any time, development occurs which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications, such development shall constitute a civil offense.
   (B)   Notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly authorized employee or
agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a
person has caused development to occur which is not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying with the terms and
conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any approved modifications
thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain Administrator shall issue
a notice to the person responsible for the violation and/or the property owner,
stating the facts of the offense or violation, the section of this chapter and/
or of the permit violated, when it occurred, how the violation is to be
remedied to bring the development into conformity with this chapter or with the
approved permit, and within what period of time the remedy is to occur, which
period of time shall be reasonable and shall be determined by the nature of the
violation and whether or not it creates a nuisance or hazard. The remedy may
include an order to stop work on the development. The notice shall also state
that a citation may be forthcoming in the event that the requested remedies and
corrective actions are not taken, which citation will request a civil monetary
fine and shall state the maximum fine which could be imposed.
   (C)   Notice of citation; notice of violation. If, at any time, a duly
authorized employee or agent of the Floodplain Administrator has reasonable
cause to believe that a person has caused development to occur which is not in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter including obtaining or complying
with the terms and conditions of a floodplain construction permit and any
approved modifications thereof, a duly authorized employee of the Floodplain
Administrator may issue a citation to the offender stating the violation, prior
notices of violation issued, how the violation is to be remedied to bring the
development into conformity with this chapter or with the approved permit, and
within what period of time the remedy is to occur, and what penalty or
penalties are recommended. When a citation is issued, the person to whom the
citation is issued shall respond to the citation within seven (7) days of the
date the citation is issued by either carrying out the remedies and corrections
set forth in the citation, paying the civil fine set forth in the citation or
requesting a hearing before the governing body. If the person to whom the
citation is issued does not respond to the citation within seven (7) days, that
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation occurred shall be considered final.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 3 § H, 2005)
ARTICLE II. ADMINISTRATION
§ 73.100 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR
   The Morgantown City Council of Morgantown hereby appoints the City
Floodplain Manager to administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions, and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 4 § A, 2005)
§ 73.101 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
   A development permit shall be obtained before any construction or other
development begins within any special flood hazard area established in §
73.003. Application for a Development Permit shall be made on forms furnished
by Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities, and may
include, but not be limited to, the following: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities; and the location of the foregoing. Endorsement of local
administrator is required before a state floodplain construction permit can be
processed. Specifically, the following information is required.
   (A)   Application Stage.
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level (MSL) of the
proposed lowest floor (including basement) of all structures in Zone A and
elevation of highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level to which any non-
residential structure will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   All appropriate certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure will
meet the flood-proofing criteria in §
73.201(B) and §
73.203(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction Stage.
      (1)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, and before construction
continues, or flood proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator and to the
state a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed
elevation, as built, in relation to Mean Sea Level. In AE, Al-30, AH, and A
zones where the Community has adopted a regulatory Base Flood Elevation, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by same.
      (2)   When flood proofing is utilized for a particular structure, said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
certified professional engineer or architect. Any continued work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and flood
proofing elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review
shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further
progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or
failure to make said corrections required hereby, shall be cause to issue a
stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 4 § B, 2005)
§ 73.102 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR
   The Floodplain Administrator and/or staff is hereby appointed, authorized
and directed to administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The Floodplain Administrator is further authorized to render
interpretations of this chapter, which are consistent with its spirit and
purpose by granting or denying development permits in accordance with its
provisions.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Permit Review. Review all development permits to ensure that:
      (1)   Permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained:
Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be required, and
if specific federal or state permit requirements are known, require that copies
of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development permit;
      (3)   Flood damages will be reduced in the best possible manner;
      (4)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of affected watercourses. For purposes of this chapter, "adversely
affects" means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   (B)    Review and Use of Any Other Base Flood Data. When base flood
elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
73.003, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal or
state agency, or other source, in order to administer §§
73.200 through
73.206. Any such information shall be submitted to the Morgantown City Council
/Planning and Zoning Commission for adoption.
   (C)   Notification of Other Agencies.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities, the Kentucky Division of Water, and
any other federal and/or state agencies with statutory or regulatory authority
prior to any alteration or relocation of the watercourse, and
      (2)   Submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance
Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); and
      (3)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
   (D)   Documentation of Floodplain Development.  Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed the following:
      (1)   Certification required by §
73.201(A) (lowest floor elevations) as shown on a completed and certified
Elevation Certificate. Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to
Mean Sea Level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
73.101(B);
      (2)   Certification required by §
73.201(B) (elevation or floodproofing of nonresidential structures) as shown on
a completed and certified floodproofing certificate. Verify and record the
actual elevation (in relation to Mean Sea Level) to which the new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed, in accordance with §
73.101(B);
      (3)   Certification required by §
73.201(C) (elevated structures),
      (4)   Certification of elevation required by §
73.204(A) (subdivision standards),
      (5)   Certification required by §
73.201(E) (floodway encroachments),
      (6)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (7)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (8)   Remedial Action. Take action to remedy violations of this chapter
as specified in §
73.008.
   (E)   Map Determinations. Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact
location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, for example,
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions.
      (1)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The
person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
73.302(B);
      (2)   When base flood elevation data or floodway data have not been
provided in accordance with § 73.003, then the Floodplain Administrator shall
obtain, review, and reasonable utilize any base flood elevation and floodway
data available from a federal, state, or other source, in order to administer
the provisions of §§
73.200 through
73.206;
      (3)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
Floodplain Administrator shall obtain certification from a registered
professional engineer or architect, in accordance with §
73.201(B) a floodproofing certificate;
      (4)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the Floodplain Administrator and shall be open for
public inspection.
   (F)   Right of Entry.
      (1)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the administrator has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in any structure or upon any premises any
condition or ordinance violation which makes such building, structure or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the administrator may enter such
building, structure or premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same or
perform any duty imposed upon the administrator by this chapter.
      (2)   If such structure or premises are occupied, he/she shall first
present proper credentials and request entry. If such building, structure, or
premises are unoccupied, he shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the
owner or other persons having charge or control of such request entry.
      (3)   If entry is refused, the administrator shall have recourse to every
remedy provided by law to secure entry.
      (4)   When the administrator shall have first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, no owner or
occupant or any other persons having charge, care or control of any building,
structure, or premises shall fail or neglect, after proper request is made as
herein provided, to promptly permit entry therein by the administrator for the
purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this chapter.
   (G)   Stop Work Orders. Upon notice from the administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to his agent, or to the person
doing the work, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (H)   Revocation of Permits.
      (1)   The administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under the
provisions of this chapter, in case there has been any false statement or
misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or plans on which
the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The administrator may revoke a permit upon determination by the
administrator that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
   (I)   Liability. Any officer, employee, or member of the floodplain
administrator's staff, charged with the enforcement of this chapter, acting for
the applicable governing authority in the discharge of his duties, shall not
thereby render himself personally liable, and is hereby relieved from all
personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties. Any
suit brought against any officer, employee, or member because of such act
performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this chapter
shall be defended by the department of law until the final termination of the
proceedings.
   (J)   Expiration of floodplain construction permit. A floodplain
construction permit, and all provisions contained therein, shall expire if the
holder of a floodplain construction permit has not commenced construction
within one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days from the date of its issuance
by the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 4 § C, 2005)
ARTICLE III. PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 73.200 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS 
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy;
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air condition equipment,
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding; and if
   (F)   Within Zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
   (G)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding; and,
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter;
   (K)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
shall be undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 5 § A, 2005)
§ 73.201 SPECIFIC STANDARDS
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data have been
provided, as set forth in §
73.003, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential Construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, mechanical equipment, and ductwork elevated no lower
than two (2) feet above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation
perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with standards of §
73.201(C).
      (1)   In an AO zone, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a
height equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth
number is specified.
      (2)   In an A zone, where no technical data has been produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, elevated two (2) feet above the base flood
elevation, as determined by this community. The Floodplain Administrator will
determine the method by which base flood elevations are determined. Methods
include but are not limited to detailed hydroponic and hydraulic analyses, use
of existing data available from other sources, use of historical data, best
supportable and reasonable judgement in the event no data can be produced.
Title 401 KAR (Kentucky Administrative Regulations) Chapter 4, Regulation 060,
Section 5(5)a, states as a part of the technical requirements for a State
Floodplain Permit: The applicant shall provide cross sections for determining
floodway boundaries(and thereby Base Flood Elevations) at any proposed
construction site where FEMA maps are not available. All cross sections shall
be referenced to mean sea level and shall have vertical error tolerances of no
more than + five tenths (0.5) foot. Cross sections elevations shall be taken at
those points which represent significant breaks in slope and at points where
hydraulic characteristics of the base floodplain change. Each cross section
shall extend across the entire base floodplain and shall be in the number and
at the locations specified by the cabinet. If necessary to ensure that
significant flood damage will not occur, the cabinet may require additional
cross sections or specific site elevations which extend beyond those needed for
making routine regulatory floodway boundary calculations.
      (3)   In All Other Zones, Elevated Two (2) Feet Above the Base Flood
Elevation. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor, and verified by the community building inspection
department to be properly elevated. Such certification and verification shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   Non-Residential Construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure
(including manufactured homes used for non-residential purposes) shall be
elevated to conform with §
73.201(A) or together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      (1)   Be floodproofed below an elevation two (2) feet above the level of
the base flood elevation so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      (3)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, mechanical equipment,
and ductwork, elevated no lower than two (2) feet above the level of the base
flood elevation; or
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the official as set forth in §
73.101(A)(3).
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards in §
73.201(D).
      (6)   All new construction and substantial improvement with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable
solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are
subject to flooding, shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below an
elevation two (2) feet above the base flood elevation, and, shall be designed
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwater. Opening sizes (FEMA Technical
Bulletin 1-93) for meeting this requirement must meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Have a minimum of two (2) openings with a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwater.
   (C)   Elevated Structures. New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated structures on columns, posts, or pilings (e.g.) that include fully
enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls below the base
flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (1)   Opening sizes for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of
not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade); and,
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and,
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed areas shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Standards for Manufactured Homes and Recreational Vehicles.
      (1)   All new or substantially improved manufactured homes placed on
sites located within A, A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must meet all the requirements for new construction,
including elevation and anchoring.
         (a)   Locations include:
            1.   On individual lots or parcels;
            2.   In expansions to existing manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            3.   In new manufactured home parks or subdivisions;
            4.   In substantially improved manufactured home parks or
subdivisions;
            5.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; or
            6.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result
of a flood.
         (b)   All manufactured homes must be:
            1.   Elevated on a permanent foundation;
            2.   Have its lowest floor elevated no lower than two (2) feet
above the level of the base flood elevation; and
            3.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (2)   Excepting manufactured homes that have incurred substantial damage
as a result of a flood, all manufactured homes placed or substantially improved
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
         (a)   The manufactured home is securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement,
so that either:
            1.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than two (2) feet above the level of the base flood elevation, or
            2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less
than thirty-six (36) inches in height above the highest adjacent grade.
      (3)   (a)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites located within A,
A1-30, AO, AH, and AE on the community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) must
either:
            1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred and eighty (180)
consecutive days,
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
            3.   Meet the permit requirements for new construction of this
chapter, including anchoring and elevation requirements for "manufactured
homes".
         (b)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is
licensed and insured in accordance with the State of Kentucky motor vehicle
regulations, is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only
by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§ 73.003, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential, the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in the base
flood elevation levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If §
73.201(E) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements and
other proposed new development shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
73.200 through
73.206.
   (F)   Standards for Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate:
         (a)   Infiltration of flood waters into the systems, and
         (b)   Discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them, or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 5 § B, 2005)
§ 73.202 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION
(UNNUMBERED A ZONES) AND/OR FLOODWAYS
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
73.003, where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
where base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within special flood hazard areas, unless certification by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of
the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot at any point within the community. The engineering
certification should be supported by technical data that conforms to standard
hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
73.003.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 5 § C, 2005)
§ 73.203 STANDARDS FOR SHALLOW FLOODING ZONES
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
73.003 depths of one to three feet (1 - 3'), where a clearly defined channel
does not exist and the water path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
either the base flood elevation or in Zone AO the flood depth specified on the
Flood Insurance Rate Map, above the highest adjacent grade. In Zone AO, if no
flood depth is specified, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be
elevated no less than two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely floodproofed either to the base flood elevation or above or, in Zone
AO, to or above the specified flood depth plus a minimum of one (1) foot so
that any space below that level is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required as stated in §
73.201(B).
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 5 § D, 2005)
§ 73.204 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood and be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
   (D)   In areas where base flood elevation and floodway data is not available
(Zone A or unmapped streams), base flood elevation and floodway data for
subdivision proposals and other proposed development (including manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is the lesser, shall be provided.
   (E)   All subdivision plans will include the elevation of proposed structure
(s) and lowest adjacent grade. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the lowest floor and lowest adjacent grade elevations shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the
Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 5 § E, 2005)
§ 73.205 STANDARDS FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES IN ALL ZONES BEGINNING WITH THE
LETTER 'A'
   For all accessory structures in special flood hazard areas designated 'A'
the following provisions shall apply:
   (A)   Structure must be non-habitable;
   (B)   Must be anchored to resist floatation forces;
   (C)   Will require flood openings/vents no more than one foot (1’) above
grade, total openings are to be one (1) square inch per one (1) square foot of
floor area, at least two (2) openings required on opposite walls;
   (D)   Built of flood resistant materials below a level two (2) feet above
the base flood elevation;
   (E)   Must elevate utilities above the base flood elevation;
   (F)   Can only be used for storage or parking; and
   (G)   Cannot be modified for a different use after permitting.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 5 § F, 2005)
§ 73.206 CRITICAL FACILITIES
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA (one hundred (100) -year floodplain).
Construction of new critical facilities shall not be permissible within the
floodway; however, they may be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor elevated one foot or more above the level of the
base flood elevation at the site. Floodproofing and sealing measures must be
taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into
floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of the base flood
elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 5 § F, 2005)
ARTICLE IV. APPEALS AND VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 73.300 NATURE OF VARIANCES
   (A)   The variance criteria set forth in this subchapter are based on the
general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of
property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the
requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
   (B)   It is the duty of the Morgantown City Planning and Zoning Commission
to help protect its citizens from flooding. This need is so compelling and the
implications of the cost of insuring a structure built below flood level is so
serious that variances from the flood elevation or from other requirements in
the flood ordinance are quite rare. The long-term goal of preventing and
reducing flood loss and damage can only be met if variances are strictly
limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines provided in this chapter are more
detailed and contain multiple provisions that must be met before a variance can
be properly granted. The criteria are designed to screen out those situations
in which alternatives other than a variance are more appropriate.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 6, 2005)
§ 73.301 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEAL BOARD
   The Planning and Zoning Commission of Morgantown, KY shall establish an
Appeal Board consisting of six (6) members.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 6, 2005)
§ 73.302 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEAL BOARD
   (A)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter and appeals of decisions or determinations made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the Morgantown City Council, as provided
in Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 6, 2005)
§ 73.303 APPEALS/VARIANCE PROCEDURES
   In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and the:
   (A)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of
others;
   (B)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (C)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
   (D)   Importance to the community of the services provided by the proposed
facility;
   (E)   Necessity that the facility be located on a waterfront, in the case of
functionally dependent facility;
   (F)   Availability of alternative locations which are not subject to
flooding or erosion damage;
   (G)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (I)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (J)   Expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (K)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets, and bridges.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 6, 2005)
§ 73.304 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES
   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of §§
73.200 through
73.206 have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the "minimum necessary" to afford relief considering the flood hazard.
"Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the City Building Inspector need not grant
permission for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation
the applicant proposes, but only to that elevation which the Planning and
Zoning Commission believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity
of the local chapter.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the "minimum necessary" to afford relief considering the flood hazard. In
the instance of an historical structure, a determination shall be made that the
variance is the minimum necessary to afford relief and not destroy the historic
character and design of the structure.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant (as defined in this chapter); and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood height, additional threats to public safety, cause
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance (as defined in the definition
section under "Public safety and nuisance"), cause fraud or victimization of
the public (as defined in the definition section) or conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (G)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) and the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) upon request.
   (H)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of §
73.304(A) through (E) are satisfied and that the structure or other development
is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
does not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 6, 2005)
§ 73.305 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION
   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice
over the signature of a community official that:
   (A)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage, and;
   (B)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the Morgantown City Hall Recorder and shall be
recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected
parcel of land.
   (C)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community's biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 6, 2005)
§ 73.306 HISTORIC STRUCTURES
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" (see definition) upon determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 6, 2005)
§ 73.307 NO IMPACT CERTIFICATION WITHIN THE FLOODWAY
   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped or designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 6, 2005)
§ 73.999 PENALTY
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of a variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor civil offense. Any person who violates this chapter or
fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined no less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or imprisoned for not more than two
(2) days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved
in the case. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Floodplain Administrator
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. 05-09 Art. 3 § H, 2005)
TITLE 8: PLANNING AND ZONING
   
CHAPTER 80   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 80: ZONING CODE
ARTICLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
Division 1.   Introductory Provisions
   
80.001   Goals
   
80.002   Objectives
   
80.003   Authority
   
80.004   Title
   
80.005   Interpretation
   
80.006   Definitions
   
80.007    Severability
Division 2.   Zoning Districts and Boundaries
   
80.020   Zoning districts established
   
80.021   Boundaries
   
80.022   Divided lots; extension of districts
   
80.023   Vacated street or alley
   
80.024   Annexed lands
Division 3.   General Provisions
   
80.040   Provisions applicable to zoning districts
   
80.041   Activities affected; conformance required
   
80.042   Access control
   
80.043   Accessory buildings
   
80.044   Dwellings in rear of main buildings prohibited; exceptions
   
80.045   Height limitations; exceptions
   
80.046   Lots of record
   
80.047   Off-street parking
   
80.048   Unloading space
   
80.049   Setback lines; exceptions
   
80.050   Street frontage required
   
80.051   Subdivision coordination required
   
80.052   Traffic visibility across corner lots
   
80.053   Water supply and sewage disposal approval
   
80.054   Bed and breakfast establishments
   
80.055   National Flood Insurance Program
ARTICLE II.   ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
   
80.100   A - Agricultural district
   
80.101   R-1 Single-family residential district
   
80.102   R-2 Single-family residential district
   
80.103   R-3 Multi-family residential district
   
80.104   R-4 Multi-family residential district
   
80.105   B-1 Central business commercial district
   
80.106   B-2 Commercial district
   
80.107   O-1 Office and professional building district
   
80.108   I – Industrial district
   
80.109   P – Permitted Use (P-1)
   
80.110   Zoning map amendments
ARTICLE III.   COMMON REGULATIONS
Division 1.   General Provisions
   
80.200   Mobile homes and mobile home parks
   
80.201   Signs
   
80.202   Outdoor swimming pools
   
80.203   Fences, walls, and obstruction to view regulations
Division 2.   Manufactured Homes and Manufactured Home Parks
   
80.220   Manufactured home parks allowed as permitted uses and conditional uses
   
80.221   Where permitted
   
80.222   Area and density requirements
   
80.223   Lot requirements
   
80.224   Setback
   
80.225   Frontage
   
80.226   Spacing
   
80.227   Streets
   
80.228   Parking
   
80.229   Utilities
   
80.230   Accessory structures
   
80.231   Conditions
   
80.232   Nonconforming manufactured/mobile home parks
   
80.233   Requirements for location outside approved parks
   
80.234   Nonconforming manufactured/mobile homes
   
80.235   Expansion of a manufactured home park
   
80.236   Regulations for non-traditional manufactured housing/modular housing
   
80.237   Recreational vehicles and RV parks
   
80.238   Job trailers
   
80.239   Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks enforcement and
abatement costs
   
80.240   Postal standards
ARTICLE IV.   PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
Division 1.   General Provisions
   
80.300   Proposed use; approval of commission
Division 2.   Planned Commercial Developments
   
80.320   Proposed use; approval of commission
   
80.321   Regulations
   
80.322   Special conditions
Division 3.   Planned Industrial Park
   
80.340   Proposed use; approval of commission
   
80.341   Regulations
   
80.342   General provisions
   
80.343   Other conditions
Division 4.   Planned Residential Developments
   
80.360   Uses; approved by commission
   
80.361   Regulations
   
80.362   Intensity of land use
   
80.363   Zoning restrictions to apply
   
80.364   Subdivision ordinance provisions prevail
ARTICLE V.   ADMINISTRATION
   
80.400   Zoning administrator
   
80.401   Zoning permits required; fees
   
80.402   Zoning permits; procedure; provisions
   
80.403   Certificate of occupancy
   
80.404   Board of adjustment
   
80.405   Grievance procedure; appeals
   
80.406   Planning commission
   
80.407   Violations
   
80.408   Condemnation
ARTICLE VI.   ZONING AMENDMENTS
   
80.500   Zoning amendments; procedure
ARTICLE VII.   GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR SOBER LIVING FACILITIES
Division 1.   Reasonable Accommodation in Land Use and Zoning Regulation
   
80.600   Definitions
   
80.601   Purpose
   
80.602   Applicability
   
80.603   Notice to public of availability of accommodating process
   
80.604   Application for requesting reasonable accommodation
   
80.605   Grounds for reasonable accommodation
   
80.606   Distance requirement
   
80.607   Insurance and mortgage notification requirement
   
80.608   Reviewing authority
   
80.609   Required findings
   
80.610   Written decision on the request for reasonable accommodation
   
80.611   Appeals
   
80.612   Severability
   
80.613   Nonconforming existing sober homes, transitional houses, or recovery
residences
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Division 1. Introductory Provisions
§ 80.001 GOALS
   The goal of this chapter is to guide the use of land and the location of
buildings in a manner which will stabilize property values and assist in
achieving an orderly pattern of land use within the city.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. I (1.01), 1988)
§ 80.002 OBJECTIVES
   The objectives of this chapter are to promote public health, safety, morals
and the general welfare of the city; to facilitate orderly and harmonious
development and to preserve the visual and/or historical character of the city
and the intensity of land use.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. I (1.02), 1988)
§ 80.003 AUTHORITY
   Zoning authority is granted by KRS Chapter 100. All Kentucky Revised
Statutes shall be used to govern this chapter and provide for the enforcement
thereof.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. I (1.03), 1988)
§ 80.004 TITLE
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
"Morgantown, Kentucky Zoning Ordinance," and the zoning map herein referred to
and herein incorporated is entitled "Zoning Map, Morgantown, Kentucky," now
existing or later revised.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. I (1.04), 1988)
§ 80.005 INTERPRETATION
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements. Whenever this chapter imposes a
greater restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law,
rules, regulations or ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. I (1.05), 1988)
§ 80.006 DEFINITIONS
   The definitions of terms used herein shall be those contained in KRS
Chapters 100, 147, 147A and 219 as amended unless the context of use or the
specific definition contained in any article clearly provides otherwise.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. I (1.06), 1988; Ord. 92-11 § B, 1992)
§ 80.007 SEVERABILITY
   It is hereby declared that sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and
phrases of this chapter are severable and, if any phrase, clause, sentence,
paragraph, or section shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the
valid judgement or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction such
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this chapter, since
the same would have been enacted by the City Council without the incorporation
of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. I (1.06), 1988; Ord. 92-11 § B, 1992; Am. Ord. passed 9-1-15)
Division 2. Zoning Districts and Boundaries
§ 80.020 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
   For the purposes of this chapter, the incorporated territory of the city is
divided into the following categories of zoning districts:
   (A)   A   Agricultural district
   (B)   R-1   Low-density, single-family dwelling residential district
   (C)   R-2   Medium-density, single-family dwelling residential district
   (D)   R-3   Medium-density, single- and multi-family dwelling residential
district
   (E)   R-4   High-density, multi-family residential district
   (F)   B-1   Central business district
   (G)   B-2   Commercial district
   (H)   O-1   Office and professional district
   (I)   I   Industrial district
   (J)   P   Permitted
   (K)   Postal standards in all zoning districts shall comply with the U.S.
Postal Service National Delivery Standards A Guide for Builders Handbook PO-632
(July 2020).
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 2 (2.01), 1988; Am. Ord. passed - -21)
§ 80.021 BOUNDARIES
   (A)   The boundaries of the zoning districts in §
80.020  are hereby established as shown on the "Zoning Map, Morgantown,
Kentucky", which is incorporated herein by reference. The original of this map
is on file in the office of the zoning administrator of the city, or in the
office of the City Clerk, City Hall. The map with metes and bounds is located
in the county PVA office.
   (B)   The boundary lines of districts are lot lines, the center lines of
creeks or of such lines extended, branches or drains, the center lines of
streets or alleys or such lines extended and/or corporate limit lines.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 2 (2.02), 1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-2-23)
§ 80.022 DIVIDED LOTS; EXTENSION OF DISTRICTS
   Where a district boundary line established on the zoning map divides a lot
of single ownership which was a lot of record at the time of the passage of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, then the least restrictive district
requirements under which the lot was divided shall be applied to the entire
lot.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 2 (2.03), 1988)
§ 80.023 VACATED STREET OR ALLEY
   Whenever any public way is vacated through legal action, a portion of it
shall immediately, without further action, assume and be a part of the zoning
district(s) through which they formerly passed.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 2 (2.04), 1988)
§ 80.024 ANNEXED LANDS
   In every case where land becomes a part of the city through annexation, such
newly annexed land shall automatically be zoned R-3. Such designation shall
remain in effect unless or until the planning commission makes a recommendation
to the City Council for a zoning change and the council adopts such change.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 2 (2.05), 1988)
Division 3. General Provisions
§ 80.040 PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ZONING DISTRICTS
   Except as hereinafter specified, the provisions of this chapter shall apply
within all zoning districts.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.01), 1988)
§ 80.041 ACTIVITIES AFFECTED; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED
   (A)   No building or land shall hereafter be used, and no building or part
thereof shall be erected, moved, or altered unless for use expressly permitted
by and in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in
which it is located.
   (B)   No excavation, or cut or fill of earth or debris shall hereafter be
undertaken unless a permit is issued by the zoning administrator for such
excavation, cut or fill.
   (C)   Exception. The lawful use of any building, facilities or premises
existing at the time of the enactment, or subsequent amendment of this title,
which is not in conformity may be continued, if the use conformed and commenced
during or prior to the 1962 Zoning Ordinance now repealed, but shall not be
extended, enlarged or moved to occupy any portion of land or structure, except
in conformity with this title. Any buildings or facilities damaged or destroyed
by natural disaster or fire may be repaired or rebuilt for continued
nonconforming use, but such repair or rebuilding must be accomplished within
one (1) year from the date of its damage or destruction, should the use be
abandoned within one (1) year the use thereafter shall comply with this title.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.011), 1988)
§ 80.042 ACCESS CONTROL
   (A)   Residential Districts.
      (1)   Lots of less than one hundred (100) feet in width shall have no
more than one (1) point of access to any one (1) public street. Lots wider than
one hundred (100) feet shall be allowed one (1) additional point of access for
each additional one hundred (100) feet of width or major fraction thereof.
      (2)   No point of access shall be allowed within twenty (20) feet of the
intersection of the right-of-way of intersecting streets.
      (3)   A point of access shall not exceed twenty (20) feet in width for
one (1)-way and/or one (1) lane ingress or egress. No two (2) -way egress and/
or ingress access shall exceed thirty-five (35) feet in width.
   (B)   Business and Commercial Districts.
      (1)   In all commercial districts, points of access to highways and
streets shall be controlled by the regulations of the planning commission.
Before any zoning permit for any structure in a business or commercial zone may
be issued, the prospective builder or operator of the proposed activity shall
submit a sketch of the layout and design of the proposed structure(s) and/or
the access points to the highway or street to the zoning administrator for
review as to their conformity with the regulations of the planning commission.
      (2)   The planning commission may require that when two (2) or more
consumer commercial establishments adjoin, or are so located along one (1) side
of a street as to make a single point of access practical, the establishments
should share such access.
      (3)   Planned shopping areas of four (4) or more establishments which
adjoin, or are located in close proximity to each other on any major street,
may be required by the planning commission to be served by a road parallel to
the highway or street which has no more than two (2) points of entry or egress.
Such roadway shall be constructed at the expense of the owner(s).
      (4)   In a planned commercial district (see Article IV), ingress and
egress shall be so designed as to minimize traffic congestion. No more than one
(1) entry-exit way shall be constructed for every one hundred fifty (150) feet
of highway frontage or bordering roadway.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.012), 1988; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 80.043 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS
   (A)   Accessory buildings must be at least five (5) feet from other
buildings situated on the same lot and five (5) feet from the boundary line of
all adjoining lots.
   (B)   Mini-warehouse/storage unit. A building or group of buildings that has
controlled access and that contains varying sizes of individual
compartmentalized stalls or lockers with access controlled by tenant for the
storage of customer’s goods or wares. An operation involving a security
arrangement utilizing a warehouseman is not a mini warehouse.
   (C)   An accessory building in a residential district shall not be used for
or be involved with the conduct of any business, trade or industry on the
premises.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.013), 1988; Am. Ord. passed 1- -24)
§ 80.044 DWELLINGS IN REAR OF MAIN BUILDINGS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS
   No building in the rear of a principal building shall be used for
residential purposes unless it conforms to all yard, open space and off-street
parking requirements for a rear dwelling, measured from the required rear yard
line of the principal building. A certificate of occupancy must be obtained
before a rear dwelling can be used for residential purposes.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.014), 1988)
§ 80.045 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS; EXCEPTIONS
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas, domes not intended for human occupancy, monuments, water
towers, observation and transmission towers, windmills, chimneys, smokestacks,
derricks, conveyors, flag poles, masts and aerials.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.015), 1988)
§ 80.046 LOTS OF RECORD
   The owner of a lot of official record, which at the time of the adoption of
the ordinance codified in this chapter did not include sufficient area of land
to conform to the yard or other dimensional requirements of this chapter, may
make an application to the board of adjustment for a variance from the terms of
this chapter. Such lot may be used as a building site to conform with the
district in which it is located, provided, however, that the yard and other
requirements of the district are complied with as closely as it is possible to
achieve in the opinion of the board.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.016), 1988)
§ 80.047 OFF-STREET PARKING
   (A)   Off-street automobile storage or standing space shall be provided on
any lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established. Such
space shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley. (For
purposes of computing the number of parking spaces available in a given area,
the ratio of four hundred (400) square feet per parking space shall be used).
The following are the minimum requirements for specific use:
      (1)   Dwelling. One (1) space for each family dwelling unit.
      (2)   Apartment Buildings. One and one-half (1-1/2) spaces for each
housing unit.
      (3)   Rooming Houses. One (1) space for each two (2) rooms occupied, or
intended for occupancy by roomers, in addition to the requirements of
subsection (1) above.
      (4)   Tourist Accommodations. One (1) space for each room offered for
tourist accommodation, plus one (1) space for each employee on duty at any
time.
      (5)   Restaurants and Boarding Houses.  One (1) space for each five (5)
service seats at full capacity, plus one (1) space for each three (3) employees
(except in B-1 district).
      (6)   Theater, Auditorium, Church or Other Place of Public Assembly
(except in B-1 district). One (1) space of each five (5) seats available at
maximum capacity.
      (7)   Commercial or Business Buildings in B-2 Districts. Four (4) spaces
for the first one thousand (1,000) square feet of floor space and one (1)
additional space for each two hundred fifty (250) square feet of space above
that.
      (8)   Office and Professional Buildings Outside the Central Business
District. One (1) space for each employee whose basic duties are carried out
inside the building and two (2) spaces for each one hundred (100) square feet
of waiting room or customer service area.
      (9)   Industrial Plant. One (1) parking space for each four (4) employees
at maximum employment on a single shift plus one (1) space for each car or
truck operated by the plant. The planning commission may require additional
parking spaces as it deems necessary.
      (10)   Trailer or Mobile Home Parks. One (1) space for each mobile home
lot or unit, plus one-fourth (1/4) space for each mobile home lot. The
additional parking may be in a central location.
   (B)   Combined uses (such as tourist accommodation and restaurant) shall
meet minimum requirements for both or all uses.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.017), 1988)
§ 80.048 UNLOADING SPACE
   Every new building or structure intended for business or trade shall provide
not less than one (1) loading and unloading space which will accommodate large
trucks, tractors and semi-trailers for the delivery and receipt of merchandise
off the street. Such spaces shall have access to a public alley or if there is
no alley, to a public street (except in the B-1 district).
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.018), 1988)
§ 80.049 SETBACK LINES; EXCEPTIONS
   (A)   Front yard setback lines shall be measured from the street-facing
property line to the outermost protrusion of the building or structure.
   (B)   Front yard setback lines may be varied where the average depth of
principal buildings on adjoining properties is less or greater than the depth
prescribed elsewhere in this chapter. In such case, the front yard in question
shall not be less than the average depth of existing front yards on the two (2)
lots immediately adjoining.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.019), 1988)
§ 80.050 STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED
   Except as permitted by other provisions of this chapter, no lot shall
contain any building which is used in whole or in part for residential purposes
unless such lot abuts for at least fifty (50) feet on a street or public way.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.020), 1988)
§ 80.051 SUBDIVISION COORDINATION REQUIRED
   In all cases where the ownership of land is divided for the purpose of
eventual development of building lots, the provisions of the subdivision
regulations shall be applicable in addition to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.021), 1988)
§ 80.052 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY ACROSS CORNER LOTS
   (A)   On a corner lot, within the area formed by the center line of the
intersecting streets and a line joining points on such center lines at a
distance of ninety (90) feet, there shall be no obstruction to vision between a
height of three and one-half (3-1/2) feet and a height of ten (10) feet above
the average elevation of the existing surfaces of each street, at the center
line thereof.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the central business
district, nor shall the requirements of this section be deemed as prohibiting
any necessary retaining wall.
   (C)   The board of adjustments may either increase or reduce the
requirements of this section in the interest of safety, where unusual or
special conditions warrant consideration.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.022), 1988)
§ 80.053 WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL APPROVAL
   It shall be unlawful to construct any building without water supply and
sewage disposal facilities which have been approved by the county health
officer. Wherever water and sewer mains are accessible, buildings shall be
connected to such mains. In every case individual water supply and sewage
disposal must meet the requirements set by the city and/or the county health
officer. The city or the county health officer's certificate approving proposed
and/or completed water and sewage facilities must accompany applications for
building permits and certificates of occupancy.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3-023), 1988)
§ 80.054 BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
   Bed and breakfast facilities may be approved by the board of adjustments in
R-2, R-3 and R-4 districts as a conditionally permitted use provided that the
following requirements are met:
   (A)   Adequate off-street parking shall be required of each applicant with
at least one (1) paved parking space for every authorized guest room. All plans
for the construction of new parking must accompany the original application. If
nonresident employees are anticipated, additional parking may be required.
   (B)   No meals shall be served to guests other than breakfast, and it shall
only be served to registered guests. Guests shall not be permitted to prepare
food within the facility.
   (C)   No other commercial activities of any kind shall be conducted on the
premises, except the sale of local arts and crafts to guests only.
   (D)   One (1) sign that is attached to the front wall of the building shall
be allowed provided that it does not exceed four (4) square feet in size and is
lighted only by indirect lighting. The sign may identify the name of the
structure and other historical information and may contain the words "bed and
breakfast", but it shall not have any advertising and shall be for
identification purposes only.
   (E)   The number of guest rooms in a facility shall be limited by the board
of adjustment by the size of the structure and density of the neighborhood and
in no event shall it exceed five (5) rooms, and the number of guests in a
facility at any one time shall not exceed fifteen (15) persons.
   (F)   The maximum length of stay of any guest at any one time shall be
twenty-one (21) days.
   (G)   Exterior modifications shall be allowed only if the facility would
retain the look of a home and would not resemble a commercial establishment.
   (H)   The establishment shall pass periodic inspections by agencies that
oversee such an establishment, and it shall be licensed by all proper agencies.
These certifications shall be posted in a conspicuous location along with
telephone numbers of emergency services which shall be posted near each
telephone.
   (I)   A resident manager shall live in the facility during all periods of
operation.
   (J)   Before an application can be approved written notification by
certified mail shall be given to all property owners within one hundred fifty
(150) feet from any boundary line of the proposed facility of a public hearing.
   (K)   The approval of an application and issuance of a permit shall be a
nontransferable, personal right that shall not pass with the property to
subsequent owners. The failure of the applicant to actively participate in the
management of the facility or if the facility is operated so that it unduly
interferes with the residential nature of the area, shall be grounds for
revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 91-02 § 1, 1991)
§ 80.055 NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
   (A)   The city is a participating member of the National Flood Insurance
Program (“NFIP”). The city has adopted the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
for the city, effective November 2, 2005 (Ord. 2005-09) and has adopted the
Kentucky Flood Plain Management Hand book.
   (B)   Reference is hereby made to Ordinance 2005-09 (codified as
Chapter 73 of this Code of Ordinances) and the Kentucky Flood Plain Management
Hand Book for specific planning and zoning requirements of flood plains.
Reference is also made to the periodic Federal Emergency Management Agency
(“FEMA”) flood plain map for determination of the applicability of Ordinance
2005-09 and the Kentucky Flood Plain Management Hand Book.
   (C)   In support of the NFIP, FEMA identifies flood hazard areas throughout
the U.S. and it’s territories by producing Flood Hazard Boundary Maps (FHBMs).
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs).
Serveral areas of flood hazards are commonly identified on these maps. One of
these areas is the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) or heigh risk area defined
as any land that would be inundated by a flood having a 1% chance of occurring
in any given year (also referred to as the base flood).
   (D)   The high-risk area standard constitutes a reasonable compromise
between the need for building restrictions to minimize potential loss of life
and property and the economic benefits to be derived from flood plain
development. Development may take lace within the SFHA, provided that
development complies with local flood plain management ordinances, which must
meet the minimum Federal requirements. Flood insurance is required for
insurable structures within high-risk areas to protect Federal Financial
investments and assistance used for acquisition and/or construction purposes
within communities participating in the NFIP.
   (E)   The city is not authorized to grant any variance below SFHA as
established by FEMA or contained in Ordinance 2005-09 and the Kentucky Flood
Plain Management Hand Book. All elevations and restrictions reflect those
criteria put forth by the FEMA Flood Plain mapping program and by ordinance of
this city.
   (F)   The city cannot, by federal regulation, grant any variance below the
1% annual flood zone. This can only be done by FEMA by special permit and by
securing a Kentucky State Flood Plain Development Permit. The minimum elevation
(lowest floor level including a basement) must be at or above the 421 feet
elevation and the foundation must be flood protected with special automatic
flood vents with a minimum of two vents. Applicants for building permits are
instructed to consult applicable regulations of the NHIP, FEMA and the State of
Kentucky.
   (G)   In addition to the above permits, a standard building permit is
required, along with payment of any fees implemented by the City Flood Plain
Administrator and the City Building Inspector.
(Ord. 10-05, passed 7-8-10)
ARTICLE II. ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 80.100 A – AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
   (A)   Permitted uses. Land dedicated to agricultural purposes, including row
cropping, plant nurseries, greenhouses, commercial kennels, riding stables and
fishing lakes shall be permitted in agricultural districts within the city
limits.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. Within the city limits the following agricultural
activities are prohibited: animal husbandry, dairying, egg and poultry
production, farrowing and other agricultural activities which constitute noise
or waste nuisances.
   (C)   Conditionally permitted uses. Subject to the approval of the board of
adjustment, the following uses of land may be approved within an agricultural
district: churches, Sunday school buildings, parish houses, hospitals,
sanitariums, convalescent or nursing homes; public and parochial schools and
colleges and private schools for academic instruction; public buildings and
properties; public parks; public utilities; quarries and gravel pits; public
and private sewage disposal plants; garbage and/or refuse disposal sites and
wireless transmitting stations. Travel trailer parks and/or campground sites
may also be established in an agricultural district as a special exception.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 4 (4.01, 4.011, 40.012), 1988)
§ 80.101 R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this district is to provide for low-density
single family detached homes and supporting uses. This district should be the
city’s largest residential area. Lots should be large enough to accommodate
septic systems in areas of the city not served by the wastewater collection
system.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses. Single-family dwellings and planned
residential development projects as described in Article IV of this chapter.
   (C)   Dwelling, single family. A building occupied exclusively for
residential purposes by one family or one housekeeping unit.
   (D)   Family. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided
that unless all members are related by blood, adoption, common law partner or
marriage.
   (E)   Conditionally permitted uses requiring board of adjustment
authorization. The following permitted uses are exceptions in R-1 district and
require the written approval of the board of adjustment: churches and other
places of worship; parish houses; public libraries; schools offering general or
specialized education courses; daycare and/or nursery services; public parks
and noncommercial public recreational facilities; nurses’ homes; nursing homes;
hospitals for the care of humans; philanthropic institutions and clubs of which
the chief activity is customarily carried on as a business.
   (F)   Accessory building and uses shall be permitted as customarily
incidental to the conditional use.
   (G)   Lot area frontage and yard requirements.
      (1)   Minimum dimensional requirements:
         Lot area         12,000 square feet
         Lot width at building line   75 feet
      (2)   Yard space (excepting unattached accessory buildings):
         Rear depth         25 feet
         Side yards         12 feet
         Front depth         35 feet
         Frontage         40 feet
   The minimum width of side yards along intersecting streets shall be the same
as the front yard setback required for the residential district on such side
street.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 4 (4.021-4.024), 1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-2-23)
§ 80.102 R-2 - SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   (A)   Intent. Same as for R-1 except this zone is intended to encourage low-
to moderate- density and more compact dense single-family development.
   (B)   Requirements. The requirements for this district shall be the same as
those for the R-1 district with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements:
         Lot area         10,000 square feet
         Rear depth         25 feet
         Side depth         10 feet
         Front depth         35 feet
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 4 (4.03), 1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-2-23)
§ 80.103 R-3 – MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   (A)   Intent. This district is intended to encourage low- to moderate-
density residential development, including a compatible mixture of duplexes and
triplexes with single-family residences. It is also the intent of this zone to
allow the conversion of large, older homes.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses. Single- and multi-family residences and
planned residential developments subject to Article V.
      (1)   Multi-family dwellings.
      (2)   Boarding houses for up to six (6) persons, not to exceed more than
two (2) individuals per bedroom.
      (3)   Community residences.
      (4)   Townhouses except that no more than twelve (12) units may be
attached.
   (C)   Conditionally permitted uses requiring board of adjustment
authorization.
      (1)   The following uses are special exceptions in an R-3 district and
require the written approval of the board of adjustment: churches and other
places of worship, parish houses, public libraries, schools, daycare and/or
nursery services, public parks and public recreational facilities, public
utilities, funeral homes, cemeteries, nurses' homes, clinics and hospitals for
human care, philanthropic institutions and clubs (except clubs of which the
chief activity is customarily carrying on of a business).
2024 S-13   14A
   MORGANTOWN - ZONING CODE
   14B
   MORGANTOWN - ZONING CODE
      (2)   Other conditionally permitted uses within an R-3 district may
include: an office in the residence of a physician, dentist, lawyer, engineer,
architect, realtor, insurance agent, the studio of an artist, a teacher of
music (limited to one (1) pupil at a time). Such uses must not involve more
than one-half (1/2) of the area of one (1) floor of the dwelling and no more
than one (1) person not resident on the premises may be employed. It is further
required that such use shall not require structural alteration or features not
customary in dwellings. An indirectly lighted sign or name plate not more than
one (1) square foot in area may be attached flat against the side of the
building.
      (3)   Additional conditionally permitted R-3 uses may include such
customary home occupations as handicraft, dressmaking, laundering, beauty and
barber shops, etc. These occupations must be conducted exclusively by resident
occupants in their place of residence, and not more than one-fourth (1/4) of
the area of one (1) floor of the residence shall be used for such purpose. It
is further required that within the exception of handicrafts, no more than
twenty percent (20%) of the revenue of home occupations shall be derived from
the sale of items at retail. The use of a residence for home occupations shall
not require alteration, or structural features not customarily found in a
dwelling. An indirectly lighted sign of not more than one (1) square foot may
be affixed against the wall of the building.
      (4)   The planning and zoning board may attach such conditions as it
deems necessary to preserve and protect the nature of the district.
      (5)   Additional conditionally permitted uses within R-1 an R-2 may
include a home occupation, renting of sleeping rooms, music teaching, tutoring,
tax and bookkeeping work, emergency and occasional medical treatment without
stated regular hours, home sewing, home making and manufacturing for retailers
such as fish bait making, labeling and mailing envelopes and literatures. The
selling of any merchandise to general public shall be prohibited. This section
shall not prohibit the owner's use of an R-1 and R-2 residence to make
solicitation calls, calls to clients, customers, use their homes as an office
for their personal business, such as an insurance debit. All home occupations
shall not in any manner generate business traffic on a continuous regular basis
as a retail or wholesale outlet. Home occupations shall not permit home storage
for retail or delivery sales. Such activity shall not permit public
advertisement to induce prospective customers to the R-1 or R-2 residence, or
create area traffic or customer flow. Such activity shall occupy no more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total floor area of the dwelling, garage area,
out buildings included. Non-family help or employees are prohibited.
   (D)   Accessory buildings and uses. Accessory buildings and uses customarily
incidental to the conditional uses shall be permitted.
   (E)   Height requirements. No principal structure in an R-3 district shall
exceed three (3) stories, or thirty-six (36) feet in height.
   (F)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements.
2024 S-13   15
   MORGANTOWN - ZONING CODE
      (1)   The minimum required lot size in an R-3 district shall be eight
thousand (8,000) square feet for a single-family dwelling and eight thousand
(8,000) square feet for the first family when the dwelling is for multi-family
use with two thousand (2,000) square feet additional being required for each
additional family occupying the building.
      (2)   Other dimension minimums:
         (a)   Yard space (except unattached buildings)
            Rear depth   25 feet
            Side widths   10 feet
            Front depth   25 feet
         (b)   Minimum width of side yards along intersecting streets shall be
the same as front yard setback for the residential district on such side
street.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 4 (4.041-4.045), 1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-2-23)
§ 80.104 R-4 - MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   (A)   Principal permitted uses. Single- and multi-family dwellings, same as
R-3 except this covers planned residential development projects as permitted in
Article V of this chapter; mobile home parks which meet the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Conditionally permitted uses requiring board of adjustment
authorization. The conditionally permitted use in this district shall be the
same as that of an R-3 district.
   (C)   Accessory buildings and use. Same as in an R-3 district.
   (D)   Lot area, frontage, and yard requirements.
      (1)   The minimum required lot area within an R-4 district shall be six
thousand (6,000) square feet for a single-family dwelling, and for the first
family occupying a multi-family structure. There shall be two thousand (2,000)
additional square feet for each additional family in a multi-family dwelling.
      (2)   Dimensional minimums:
         (a)   Lot width at building line.
            Single-family   50 feet
            Multi-family   60 feet
         (b)   Yard space, other than attached buildings.
            Rear depth         20 feet
            Side widths         8 feet
            Front depth         20 feet
            Frontage (public street)   40 feet
         (c)   Minimum width of side yards along intersecting streets shall be
the same as the front yard setback required for the residential district of
such side street.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 4 (4.051-4.054), 1988; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 80.105 B-1 - CENTRAL BUSINESS COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this zone is to encourage the sound expansion of
the Central Business District and recognize the special relationship of the
downtown and the surrounding neighborhoods. This zone will allow mixed uses
while recognizing the general business character of the downtown and the
residential character of the surrounding neighborhoods.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses. Any consumer and personal service and/or
retail establishment.
      (1)   Retail businesses and retail services.
      (2)   Places for amusement and assembly.
      (3)   Manufacturing or processing establishments that do not create dust,
smoke, noise, odor, or other pollution outside the lot on which it is located
and do not employ more than ten (10) people.
      (4)   Personal service establishments.
      (5)   Restaurants.
      (6)   Professional offices.
      (7)   Governmental offices, laboratories, and facilities.
      (8)   Public/semi-public uses such as libraries, vocational or technical
schools, churches, nursing homes, funeral homes, medical offices.
      (9)   Public utility installations, offices, storage, and maintenance
facilities.
      (10)   Wholesaler retail outlets.
      (11)   Hotels, motels.
      (12)   Minor automobile and truck repair.
      (13)   Passenger transportation terminals.
      (14)   Athletic club facilities.
      (15)   Residential use provided those residential units are not mixed
with nonresidential uses on the same floor unless separate entrances are
provided for the residential and non-residential uses.
      (16)   Automobile service station provided it conforms to all general
parking and landscaping requirements.
      (17)   Grocery stores and convenience stores whose primary function is
the retail of food and sundry products.
   (C)   Conditionally permitted uses requiring board of adjustment
authorization.
      (1)   The following uses are special exceptions in a B-1 district and
require written approval of the board of adjustment: apartments, townhouses,
and single-family dwellings, churches and other places of worship, parish
houses, schools, daycare centers and nurseries, funeral homes, hospitals or
clinics for human care, industry, and philanthropic institutions and clubs
(except those whose principal activities are carried on as a business or
commercial activity suitable to the district).
      (2)   The planning and zoning board may attach such conditions to its
approval as are deemed essential to the preservation of the character of the
district as a historical area or general appearance of the area so as to
improve its economic appearance.
      (3)   Although metal and prefabricated buildings are not prohibited in
any area deemed by the zoning commission, all buildings and structures shall
with the initial permit specify the type of veneer or siding to be exposed to
the public ways and they shall provide for suitable veneer, in keeping with the
surrounding area and the commercial and mixed residential areas so as to not
depreciate the general appearance of the area. The zoning commission shall
review such permit for approval and encourage beautifying veneer and discourage
metal and wood siding not in conformity with the area. The permit shall further
provide for landscaping, tree and shrub planting appropriate under each
circumstance.
   (D)   Accessory uses. Any accessory use or building customarily incidental
to permitted uses may be permitted.
   (E)   Mini warehouses/storage units. Which provide for rental, small storage
facilities that are offered for use to the public. The P/Z Commission when
granting requests for mini-warehouse facilities may limit the number of units
provided, restrict the size or orientation of any structure, require screening,
buffering, or landscaping, require a specific type of building material,
require green landscape buffer areas, require storm water abatement measures,
or impose any other requirement that it deems necessary to help the requested
use blend into its unique surroundings.
   (F)   Storage/shipping containers. Storage/shipping containers, portable or
mobile units are not considered to be used for rental, or small storage
facilities that are offered for use to the public.
   (G)   Signs. As permitted in §
80.201  of this chapter.
(Order. 88-12 Art. 4. (4.061-4.064), 1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-2-23; Am. Ord.
passed 1- -24)
§ 80.106 B-2 - COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this district to provide areas for
commercial development outside of the Central Business District. This
development should be located along major highways and should be clustered with
common highway access points wherever possible. Strip development with numerous
highway access points should be discouraged.
   (B)   The planning and zoning board may attach such conditions to its
approval as are deemed essential to the preservation of the character of the
district as a historical area or general appearance of the area so as to
improve its economic appearance.
   (C)   Although metal and prefabricated buildings are not prohibited in any
area deemed by the zoning commission, all buildings and structures shall with
the initial permit specify the type of veneer or siding to be exposed to the
public ways and they shall provide for suitable veneer, in keeping with the
surrounding area and the commercial and mixed residential areas so as to not
depreciate the general appearance of the area. The zoning commission shall
review such permits for approval and encourage beautifying veneer and
discourage metal and wood siding not in conformity with the area. The permit
shall further provide for landscaping, tree and shrub planting appropriate
under each circumstance.
   (D)   Principal permitted uses. Other uses substantially similar to those
listed herein shall also be deemed permitted.
      (1)   Retail businesses or services, unless prohibited herein.
      (2)   Personal services, unless prohibited herein.
      (3)   Offices, clerical or research facilities.
      (4)   Motor vehicle sales and services.
      (5)   Hotels and motels.
      (6)   Car washes.
      (7)   Veterinarians or kennels, providing such structure is one hundred
(100) feet from any residential zone.
      (8)   Restaurants, convenience stores or fast-food establishments.
      (9)   Type I or Type II childcare centers.
      (10)   Places of amusement, assembly, or commercial recreational
facilities.
      (11)   Public buildings, churches, trade, or vocational schools.
      (12)   Wholesale or retail outlet stores.
      (13)   Manufacturing or processing establishments incidental to retail
functions only with no more than ten (10) employees which are non-hazardous and
non-polluting and conducted fully within an enclosed building.
      (14)   Medical offices, clinics, and hospitals.
      (15)   Athletic club facilities.
      (16)   Schools for academic instruction.
      (17)   Pawnshops.
      (18)   Taxidermy establishments.
      (19)   Garden centers.
      (20)   Banks, credit agencies, security and commodity brokers, credit
institutions, savings, and loans, holding and investment companies.
      (21)   Barber and beauty shops.
      (22)   Business colleges, technical or trade schools and institutions.
      (23)   Establishments for the display, sale, rental, service and repair
of agricultural machinery, contractor equipment, trucks, automobiles, travel
trailers, boats, motorcycles, mobile homes, and the supplies for such items.
      (24)   Automobile service stations are subject to all parking and
landscaping requirements of this chapter.
      (25)   Laundromats.
      (26)   Indoor amusement establishments and arcades.
      (27)   Shops of special trade and general contractors such as plumbing,
heating, carpentry, masonry, painting, metal work, printing, electrical, sign
painting, tile, electroplating, terrazzo, drilling, excavating, wrecking,
construction, and paving.
      (28)   Churches.
      (29)   Residential use provided those residential units are not mixed
with nonresidential uses on the same floor unless separate entrances are
provided for the residential and non-residential uses.
   (E)   Conditionally permitted uses requiring board of adjustment
authorization.
      (1)   The following uses are special exceptions in a B-2 district and
requiring written approval of the board of adjustment: apartments, multi-family
dwellings, townhouses, and single-family dwellings, funeral homes and
cemeteries, industry, public parks and noncommercial recreational facilities,
schools, and philanthropic institutions and clubs (except those whose principal
activities are carried on as a business).
      (2)   The board of adjustment may attach such conditions to its approval
as are deemed necessary to protect and preserve the character of the district.
   (F)   Accessory buildings and uses. Any accessory buildings or uses
customarily incidental to the permitted uses may be permitted.
   (G)   Mini warehouses/storage units. Which provide for rental, small storage
facilities that are offered for use to the public. The P/Z Commission, when
granting requests for mini-warehouse facilities, may limit the number of units
provided, restrict the size or orientation of any structure, require screening,
buffering, or landscaping, require a specific type of building material,
require green landscape buffer areas, require storm water abatement measures,
or impose any other requirement that it deems necessary to help the requested
use blend into its unique surroundings.
   (H)   Storage/shipping containers. Storage/shipping containers, portable or
mobile units are not considered to be used for rental, or small storage
facilities that are offered for use to the public.
   (I)   Any outdoor storage area shall be completely screened with a six (6)
foot high solid fence or wall from adjoining uses and streets and shall be
landscaped and paved. Such outdoor storage areas shall not be used as vehicle
impound yards or junk yards, as defined in this chapter or other local
ordinances. Storage of vehicles shall be limited to those vehicles to be
repaired on the premises. The P/Z Commission may establish additional
conditions, which it believes are necessary to assure compatibility with
neighboring uses.
   (J)   Required conditions.
      (1)   Screening. Where a commercial lot adjoins a residential lot, a
well-maintained compact hedge, a solid fence, or similar solid screening device
at least six (6) feet in height shall be installed to screen the business use
from the adjoining lot in the residential district. The screen shall begin at
the front building line and extend along the common side lot line to the rear
property line.
      (2)   Access to streets and highways. As required in §
80.042  of this chapter.
   (K)   Lot area, frontage, and yard requirements.
      (1)   Minimum dimensional requirements:
         Lot area         No set dimensions
         Frontage         No set dimensions
         Front depth         25 feet
         (a)   In commercial districts along federal aid highways, buildings
may be no closer to the highway right-of-way than fifty (50) feet.
            Side yard widths   No set dimensions
         (b)   However, if the lot adjoins a residential district, buildings
shall be so located as to comply with the requirements of the adjoining
residential district as to lot coverage, width and side yards.
            Rear yard depth   No set dimensions
         (c)   However, if the lot bounds on an alley, there shall be a rear
depth sufficient for loading, unloading, and access for emergency vehicles such
as fire trucks.
      (2)   All buildings on corner lots adjoining a residential district shall
be located as to conform with corner lot side yard requirements of said
residential district.
   (K)   Sign and/or billboard regulations. Governed by §
80.201  of this chapter.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 4 (4.071-4.076), 1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-2-23; Am. Ord.
passed 1- -24)
§ 80.107 O-1 - OFFICE AND PROFESSIONAL BUILDING DISTRICT
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses for this district are: diagnostic
clinics, hospitals, and health clinics, architectural, engineering, realtor,
management, insurance, accounting, financial institutions and legal offices,
medical offices for treatment by physicians, dentists, and other licensed
practitioners, museums, art galleries, and libraries, and allied or similar
uses to include the sale of retail of consumer items such as drugs, medical
supplies or appliances, office equipment and supplies, etc.
   (B)   Conditionally permitted uses requiring board of adjustment approval.
The following uses are special exceptions in an O-1 district and require
written approval of the board of adjustment: apartments and townhouses,
industry, schools, and philanthropic institutions and clubs.
   (C)   Accessory buildings and uses. Any accessory buildings or uses
customarily incidental to permitted uses may be permitted.
   (D)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements.
      (1)   Minimum dimensions:
 
Lot area   None
Frontage   None
Rear yard  25 feet
Side yards 10 feet
Front yard 25 feet
 
   (E)   Parking. As provided in §
80.047 of this chapter.
   (F)   Access. Same as those set forth for commercial districts.
   (G)   Signs. As set forth in §
80.201.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 4. (4.081-4.086), 1988)
§ 80.108 I - INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
   (A)   Industrial district defined.
      (1)   For the purposes of this chapter, “industry” is defined as the
activity of assembly, conversion or change of form or appearance of physical
materials or chemical elements, natural or manmade, in anticipation of enhanced
economic value or usefulness.
      (2)   In addition to such activity, certain types of commercial
operations of sale, service, and warehousing are deemed to be especially suited
for location in an industrial district. Commercial or business enterprises
other than those specifically noted may be permitted with the approval of the
board of adjustment.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Manufacturing. Permitted uses include any manufacturing activity:
assembly, fabrication, or processing which does not, by its nature, create a
public nuisance. A new industry locating in an industrial district must furnish
to the commission through the zoning administrator assurances that it will
comply with all federal, state, and local regulations with regard to air
pollutants, noise pollution, and solid waste and hazardous waste disposal prior
to the issuance of building and construction permits.
      (2)   Sales firms. Sales lots, display and stocking areas for the
following types of business are deemed to be suitable for industrial districts:
automobiles, trailers, and mobile homes, farm implements, lumber and building
materials, and wholesale of jobbing firms.
      (3)   Service establishments. The following types of service
establishments are designed as suitable for industrial districts: automobile
rental agencies, animal hospitals, veterinary clinics, and associated kennels,
motorcycle repair, and carpet cleaning.
      (4)   Warehousing and storage and truck and freight terminal. Warehousing
and storage facilities and truck and freight terminals as a general category
are permitted in industrial districts.
      (5)   Auto and other junkyards. Open storage is permitted in industrial
districts. The board of adjustment shall require screening of the area by
fences or other approved method so storage is not visible from public ways. All
junkyard permits shall be conditional and granted year to year and the board of
adjustment may from time to time regulate use.
      (6)   Public and private mini-storage units. Public and private mini-
storage units shall be permitted subject to approval of structure by the board
of adjustments.
      (7)   Public facilities. Public water and sewage treatment plants and
other public facilities and utility plants are permitted in industrial
districts.
   (C)   Conditionally permitted uses requiring board of adjustment
authorization.
      (1)   The following manufactures require the written approval of the
board of adjustment for conditional permitting in an industrial zone:
abattoirs, acids, acetylene gas, refining, blast furnaces, bricks, charcoal,
chemicals, creosote treatment and production, exterminator or insect poisons,
rendering, fertilizer, leather curing and tanning, lime, monuments, plaster of
paris, quarrying, rock crushing, sawmills, sulphur, sulfuric acid and
derivatives, tar distillation and terra cotta.
      (2)   Other conditional uses include: refuse dump, scrap iron and salvage
yards, junk car lots, coal washing, and wrecking material yards.
   (D)   Accessory buildings and uses. Any accessory building or use
customarily incident to the above permitted or conditionally permitted use
shall be permitted.
   (E)   Mini warehouses/storage units. Which provide for rental, small storage
facilities that are offered for use to the public. The P/Z Commission when
granting requests for mini-warehouse facilities may limit the number of units
provided, restrict the size or orientation of any structure, require screening,
buffering, or landscaping, require a specific type of building material,
require green landscape buffer areas, require storm water abatement measures,
or impose any other requirement that it deems necessary to help the requested
use blend into its unique surroundings.
   (F)   Storage containers. Storage containers, portable or mobile units are
not considered to be used for rental, or small storage facilities that are
offered for use to the public.
   (G)   Required conditions.
      (1)   On lots adjacent to a residential district, all buildings shall be
located so as to provide a minimum side yard of fifty (50) feet on the side
adjoining the residential property.
      (2)   Loading docks. Where possible, loading docks should be located so
as not to front on a public way or roadway.
      (3)   Storage facilities. No materials or supplies shall be stored or
permitted to remain on any part of the property outside of the buildings
constructed thereon without proper screening and adequate distance from
adjoining properties.
      (4)   Waste disposal. No waste material or refuse may be dumped upon, or
be permitted to remain upon any part of an industrial site outside of the
building erected thereon except as may be required for pretreatment of waste
prior to its being discharged into the municipal sewage system. No property
shall be used for industrial purposes unless the city agrees to accept its
sewage or the industry constructs its own approved facilities.
   (H)   Lot area, frontage and yard requirements.
      (1)   Dimensional minimums:
         Lot area   None
         Frontage   None
         Front depth   40 feet
         Side yards   25 feet
         Rear depth   25 feet
      (2)   No yard shall be required for that part of a lot which abuts upon a
railroad siding.
      (3)   All buildings on corner lots adjoining a residential district shall
be so located as to conform with corner lot requirements of such district.
   (I)   Signs and billboards. As permitted in §
80.201 .
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 4 (4.090-4.096), 1988; Am. Ord. passed 1- -24)
§ 80.109   PERMITTED USE (P-1)
   Land dedicated to use for all services deemed required or necessary to
ensure public health, safety, and the general welfare of the city; to
facilitate orderly and harmonious development; and to preserve the visual and/
or historical character of the city and the intensity of the land use.
   (A)   City-owned facilities, parks, cemeteries, and public utilities.
   (B)   Schools and educational facilities.
   (C)   Churches, fire departments, and government facilities.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 80.110 ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
   (A)   Ordinance amendments. A proposal for an amendment of this chapter
shall be referred to the Planning and Zoning Commission before its adoption.
The Commission shall review the proposal, and shall, within sixty (60) days
from the date of its receipt, recommend to the City Council as to whether it
approves or disapproves of the proposed change; and, if it disapproves, state
the reasons for his or her disapproval. Before the Planning Commission makes
its recommendation to the City Council, said Commission shall hold at least one
(1) public hearing after notice as required by KRS Ch. 424. A majority of the
elected membership of the City Council shall be required to override the
Planning Commission in its disapproval.
   (B)   Zoning map amendments. A proposal for amendment of the zoning map of
the City of Morgantown, Kentucky, shall include a metes and bounds description
of the same property to be rezoned, along with a plat of the same scale as the
zoning map Morgantown, Kentucky, located in the office of the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Approval. Before any map amendment is granted to, the Planning and
Zoning Commission and the City Council must find that the map amendment is in
agreement with the communities’ comprehensive plan, or in the absence of such a
finding, that one or more of the following apply, and such finding will be
recorded in the minutes and records of the Planning and Zoning Commission and
the City Council.
      (1)   That the original zoning classification given to the property was
inappropriate or improper.
      (2)   That there have been major changes of an economic, physical, or
social nature within the area involved which were not anticipated in the
community comprehensive plan and which had substantially altered the basic
characteristics of the neighborhood.
   (D)   Development plan. As a condition to the granting of any amendment to
the official zoning map, the Planning Commission is authorized to require the
submission of a development plan. The development plan shall be filed in
accordance with the provisions of the Kentucky Revised Statutes. Where agreed
upon by the applicant, this development plan shall be followed and shall be
binding on all parties, their heirs, successors, and assigns. A development
plan may be either a general development plan or a detailed development plan or
both as specified by the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (E)   Binding elements. No binding element approved by the Planning
Commission as a part of the proposed development plan shall permit the
development or use of land in a manner prohibited by this chapter. To the
extent of binding elements of a development plan by purports to grant such
permission, it shall be deemed in conflict with the zoning district regulations
and shall be void and of no effect.
   (F)   Recording of binding elements. Following the approval of a map
amendment and general development plan, or any amendments thereto, a statement
of finding elements shall be prepared by the applicant and filed in the office
of the Butler County Clerk. The statement of binding elements shall contain the
name of the owner at the time of per approval by the Planning Commission, a
description of the property in question, source of title, and enumeration of
the binding element as adopted by the applicant and the Planning Commission.
The same shall be assigned by the owner/applicant who shall be responsible for
all fees associated with preparation and recordation.
   (G)   Elements of a general development plan. A development plan means
written and graphic material for the provision of the aid development including
any or all of the following: location and bulk of buildings and other
structures, intensity of the use, density of development, streets, ways, access
points, and parking facilities, signs, drainage of surface water, a plan for
screening or buffering, utilities, existing man-made and natural conditions,
binding elements, all other conditions agreed on by the applicant.
   (H)   Action on development plan. The Planning Commission shall consider the
general development plan as part of a zoning map amendment request and shall
take action on the map amendment concurrently with the application for a zoning
map amendment.
   (I)   Amendment to enacted development plan. Amendments and modifications to
an improved development plan shall require the approval of the Planning
Commission. Request for amendment of any such plan shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission and shall contain the signature of all to the binding
elements sought to be amended. Request for amendment and modification of any
development plans do not need to be signed by or consented to by property
owners which are not to be subject to the modification/amendment of the
development plan. Interested parties including surrounding property owner shall
have the right to be heard at the public hearing conducted on the amendment/
modifications to the development plan.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 4 (4.090-4.096), 1988); Am. Ord. passed - -17)
ARTICLE III. COMMON REGULATIONS
Division 1. General Provisions
§ 80.200 MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
   (A)   Definitions. The definition of terms used in the chapter shall be
those set forth in KRS 219.320 as amended, KRS 360.150(C) and the Kentucky
Building Code.
   (B)   Restrictions. Except as provided in section (C) below, mobile homes
and trailers are restricted to mobile home parks.
   (C)   When considered standard housing. Mobile homes shall be considered
standard housing when the following definition and conditions are met and with
the issuance of a mobile home permit. Mobile homes meeting the following
definitions and conditions may be placed in any zone where housing is permitted
and where mobile homes are not otherwise prohibited.
      (1)   A mobile home to be considered standard housing must meet this
definition: A structure of at least three hundred twenty (320) square feet of
living area manufactured off-site, transportable on its own chassis and
designed for year round living when its wheels are removed, the structure
properly anchored to the ground and when connected to required utilities. As
used herein, mobile home shall not include camping trailer, travel trailer,
recreational vehicle, motor home, pickup camper or auto camper, and shall not
be construed to include prefabricated or modular homes, capable of delivery to
site by mobile means including a temporary chassis.
      (2)   A building permit is to be obtained. The building inspector shall
not issue a building permit for a mobile home as standard housing located
outside a mobile home park unless a measured plot plan is submitted which shows
the lot boundaries, the placement of the mobile home and which shows that the
required building set-back, side and rear yards are provided as required by the
zone in which the mobile home is to be placed.
      (3)   A mobile home permit is to be obtained. No electric, water, sewer
or natural gas service shall be provided by any utility to any mobile home
placed outside a mobile home park unless a mobile home permit has been issued.
A mobile home permit shall be issued by the building inspector only after a
building permit has been issued and a personal inspection shows that the
following additional conditions have been met:
         (a)   The mobile home has been located on a lot of record in a manner
consistent with the plot plan and that the required front set-back and side and
rear yards are provided consistent with the zone requirements.
         (b)   All wheels are removed.
         (c)   The home is anchored with at least six (6) ground anchors of at
least six (6) inches in diameter fastened to the straps built into the home of
approved straps going over the top of the home.
         (d)   The support for the home may consist of a solid continuous
foundation of concrete, but, at a minimum, shall consist of concrete footers
approximately twenty-four (24) inches square, twelve (12) inches thick and
placed on an eight (8) foot grid. Said footers are to be placed below twelve
(12) inches of and from the top of the ground.
         (e)   The home shall be underpinned with a permanent matching
material.
      (4)   No mobile home located outside a mobile home park may be occupied
unless and until all utilities and other connections are permanently made and
adhere to the code applicable to the zone.
   (D)   Permitted where. Mobile home parks are permitted in R-4 zones subject
to the provisions of this chapter. By definition, the permanent placement of
recreational vehicles is prohibited. Vehicles used for the purpose of travel
which do not exceed the length of twenty-four (24) feet may be stored in the
rear yard of any residential lot, provided that yard lot requirements of this
chapter are maintained.
   (E)   Area and density requirements. No mobile home shall be permitted on an
area less than one (1) acre in size. The developer may be permitted to develop
the park in stages so long as he complies with the overall plan approved for
the entire tract, and initially has a minimum of five (5) mobile home lots
developed for use. The number of mobile home lots permitted in a park shall not
exceed twelve (12) per net acre. A net acre is defined as being the land
remaining to be subdivided into lots after the street and other required
improvements are installed.
   (F)   Lot size. Individual lots within a mobile home park shall not be less
than three thousand (3,000) square feet in area, and in no instance shall more
than one (1) mobile home be permitted on a single mobile home lot. The minimum
width of a mobile home lot shall be forty (40) feet.
   (G)   Setback. No mobile home shall be located closer than fifteen (15) feet
to any building within the park, or to any property or road line. The setback
requirement for R-4 districts must be met.
   (H)   Spacing. No mobile home shall be located within twenty-five (25) feet
of another mobile home, except that minimum end to end clearance of not less
than ten (10) feet may be permitted. In instances where the sides opposite the
entrance of two (2) mobile homes face each other, the space between the two (2)
may be reduced to not less than twenty (20) feet.
   (I)   Streets. All mobile homes shall abut on a street. All streets within a
mobile home park shall have a right of way of not less than twenty-five (25)
feet, and a pavement of not less than twenty (20) feet in width. All the
streets within a mobile home park must be hard surfaced and must meet the
requirements of the subdivision regulations of the city.
   (J)   Maintenance of streets. The streets and roadways of a mobile home park
shall be maintained by the owner of the park. Should the lots within the park
be sold to individual owners, the city will take over the maintenance of the
streets as city streets upon the following conditions:
      (1)   Upon the first sale of a lot within the park to an individual
purchaser, the owner(s) of the park must post a security bond assuring the city
that the streets and roads within the park meet the standards of the
subdivision regulations. Upon the sale of sixty percent (60%) of the lots
within the park to individual owners, the city will assume a proportional cost
of the maintenance if the standards have been met. If all of the lots are sold
to individual owners and the streets and/or roadways meet acceptable standards,
the streets within the park shall become city streets.
      (2)   The cost of engineering studies and tests to determine the
acceptability of streets and roads of a mobile home park shall be borne by the
developer or the owner(s) of the lots within the park.
   (K)   Access to public streets and roadways. Each park shall have one (1)
street which gives access to a public street, highway, or roadway. Such access
streets shall not be less than one hundred twenty-five (125) feet from the
intersection of two (2) or more public streets.
   (L)   Lighting. All streets within a mobile home park must be well lighted,
and such lighting shall meet the standards of street lighting in the city.
   (M)   Drainage. Adequate drainage must be provided to assure that there will
be no more property damage or heath hazard due to standing water or flooding
conditions.
   (N)   Parking. Parking spaces must be provided as detailed in §
80.047(10).
   (O)   Utilities. All lots within a mobile home park must be provided with
water, sewer, electrical, and/or gas facilities meeting the standards specified
by city and state regulations. Each mobile home shall be properly connected
with such utilities.
   (P)   Fire protection.
      (1)   Water mains serving mobile home parks shall not be less than six
(6) inches in diameter, including hydrant branch connections installed in
conformity with the minimum requirements of the servicing utility.
      (2)   Fire hydrants shall meet minimum specifications and shall be
installed no farther apart than five hundred (500) feet. In no instance shall
the distance of any mobile home from a fire hydrant exceed three hundred (300)
feet.
   (Q)   Accessory structures. No accessory structure, including patios and
pads shall be located within five (5) feet of any mobile home or trailer lot
line. The maximum floor area of accessory structures shall not exceed one
hundred (100) square feet, and the maximum height shall be no greater than ten
(10) feet. All structures shall be built in compliance with building code.
   (R)   Procedure for permitting. Applicants for a permit to operate a mobile
home park shall submit a copy of the application submitted to the Kentucky
Cabinet for Human Resources as required by KRS 219.350 as amended, and in
addition shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   Dimensions and locations of all proposed lot lines, roads, and
easements, numbering for each mobile home lot;
      (2)   Contour lines to indicate a slope and drainage;
      (3)   Location of all utilities, public and private water, sewer,
drainage, electrical, and gas facilities and easements;
      (4)   The location of public areas such as visitor parking, recreational
areas, etc.;
      (5)   A large scale plan of one (1) typical mobile home lot showing
location, automobile parking, etc.;
      (6)   The location of plantings for landscape purposes, or as may be
required for protective screening by the board of adjustment.
   (S)   Issuance of building permits. The planning commission may attach
reasonable conditions to its approval of a mobile home or trailer park and may
direct the zoning administrator to issue a permit subject to such conditions.
   (T)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy. The zoning administrator shall
issue a certificate of occupancy only after he has determined that the mobile
home park has been developed according to all applicable regulations and
special conditions, and that the applicant has received a valid permit to
operate from the State Department of Health as required by KRS 219.130.
   (U)   Enforcement. The zoning administrator shall ensure that all mobile
home and trailer parks maintain valid permits to operate, and that they
maintain conformance with all the applicable regulations and special
conditions. Use can be terminated by the planning and zoning commission after
notice of hearing to owner/operator and hearing.
   (V)   Exception. The planning commission may reject any proposed mobile
homes or trailer park application even though it meets all requirements if the
commission determines that existing conforming mobile home and trailer parks
are not fully occupied and/or utilized, and therefore that the development of
more land for such use is not in accord with the public welfare of the
community.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 5 (5.01-5.03, 5.021, 5.031-5.048), 1988; Am Ord. 95-02, passed
8-10-95)
§ 80.201 SIGNS
   (A)   Purpose. The purposes of this chapter are:
      (1)   To assure maximum visibility along streets and to prevent
unreasonable distraction for motor vehicle operators;
      (2)   To preserve and enhance natural scenic beauty and historical sites
by the avoidance of unsightly cluttering of advertising signs and devices;
      (3)   To promote pedestrian safety;
      (4)   To facilitate police and fire protection;
      (5)   To provide for orderly and visible informative advertising
opportunities for all business and attractions which benefit from appropriate
signs and advertising devices.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the construction,
erection, use, location and maintenance of signs in all districts. The
provisions of this chapter shall apply to signs existing on the effective date
of the ordinance codified in this chapter. Signs in legal existence on the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, but not in conformity
with it, may remain in place; but the nonconforming use shall not be extended,
enlarged or moved to occupy a portion of land or a structure except in
conformity with this chapter. Only routine maintenance may be performed on the
sign and its structure until such time as the sign is brought into conformance
with these regulations. Unless otherwise permitted by this chapter, no new sign
may be erected, constructed or displayed within the planning area after the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter unless all the
provisions of this chapter are met.
   (C)   Signs and billboards placed along the federal and state highways,
including U.S. 231, 79 and 70, must conform to the regulations of the Kentucky
Department of Transportation in accordance with KRS 177.
   (D)   Signs permitted in zoning districts.
      (1)   Residential Districts.
         (a)   Unlighted real estate signs advertising the sale, rental, or
lease of only the premises on which they are maintained. Such signs must not
exceed ten (10) square feet in area and are to be used only temporarily. Real
estate signs must be displayed at least five (5) feet from all lot boundaries.
         (b)   Signs advertising home occupations may not exceed one (1) square
foot in area and must be affixed to the front of the building in which the
activity is carried on.
         (c)   Churches, schools and other public and semi-public institutions
may erect bulletin boards not exceeding twenty (20) square feet in area.
         (d)   Subdivisions may be identified by one (1) non-illuminated sign
at each entrance. These signs shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet in area.
      (2)   Business and Commercial Districts.
         (a)   In the central business district advertising signs are
permitted, but care must be taken to preserve the historical nature of the
district. The use of lighting is permitted, but signs and advertising devices
shall be placed on buildings in a flat manner and shall not extend more than
twelve (12) inches from the building.
         (b)   Individual establishments in a commercial district which are not
within a shopping center or a planned commercial district may choose to display
either a free- standing sign or to hang a sign perpendicular to the front of
the establishment. Such signs must not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in
area, and the outermost edge of the sign must be at least ten (10) feet from
the property line. These signs must be lit so long as they are not illuminated
in such a way as to constitute a hazard inhibiting the vision of vehicle
operators.
      (3)   Shopping Centers.
         (a)   For the purpose of this chapter, a "shopping center" is defined
as two (2) or more commercial establishments which share a common place name
such as "shopping center," "market place" or similar identification.
         (b)   A shopping center may have one (1) free-standing sign not
exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in area exclusive of a directory of
occupants. Signs on stores or service establishments within the center shall be
placed on buildings in a flat manner, extending no more than twelve (12) inches
outward from the building.
      (4)   Planned Commercial Developments. Each planned commercial
development shall be permitted two (2) freestanding signs not over twenty-five
(25) feet in height, or more than one hundred fifty (150) square feet in area,
exclusive of any directory of firms. Other signs in the development shall be
attached to the buildings in a flat manner and shall not extend from the
building more than twelve (12) inches.
      (5)   Office and Professional District. Office or professional buildings
may be designated by one (1) free-standing sign not exceeding one hundred fifty
(150) square feet in area bearing the name of the building or complex, and
listing the names of the tenants. Individual signs of tenants shall be affixed
to the front or sides of the structure, or upon doors or windows.
      (6)   Industrial Districts.
         (a)   Industrial parks designated for multiple occupancy shall be
permitted one (1) free-standing sign or billboard not to exceed one hundred
fifty (150) square feet in area for each roadway or street which borders the
park. No sign may be located closer to the street right-of-way than twenty (20)
feet.
         (b)   Individual industry locations shall be permitted one (1) sign
not exceeding one hundred fifty (150) square feet in area for each roadway or
street which borders its property. Such sign(s) shall not be located closer
than twenty (20) feet from the property border line(s). Other signs shall be
affixed flat against buildings.
         (c)   Each industry, whether in a park, or occupying a separate lot,
shall be permitted one (1) free-standing sign of not more than twenty (20)
square feet for directional purposes to assure the convenience of vendors and
visitors.
   (E)   Temporary signs. The following signs shall be permitted in all
districts and shall not require a permit unless otherwise noted:
      (1)   Construction signs which identify the architects, engineers,
contractors and other individuals or firms which are involved in a permitted
project. Product logos may be displayed, but no additional advertising shall be
allowed. Such signs shall be restricted to an area of sixteen (16) square feet
for each firm. The signs must be restricted to the construction site, and shall
be removed within fourteen (14) days after the completion of the advertised
project.
      (2)   Real estate signs advertising the sale, rental or lease of premises
shall be restricted to a total of thirty-five (35) square feet for properties
other than residential. For residential properties the limit shall be ten (10)
square feet. These signs shall not be illuminated, and must be removed within
fourteen (14) days after the sale, lease or rental by the seller, lessor or his
agent.
      (3)   Signs advertising an auction shall be limited to thirty-two (32)
square feet in size, and shall be removed within seven (7) days after the
auction occurs.
      (4)   Political campaign signs announcing the candidacy of individuals or
those which seek support for or against a proposition to be voted on may be
placed upon private property with the consent of the owner(s). Such political
signs must not exceed twenty (20) square feet in area, and must be removed
within seven (7) days after the vote is taken. Signs shall never be placed on
telephone or electric poles.
      (5)   Street banners advertising a public entertainment or event require
the approval of the zoning administrator. Such approval may be given for a
period of thirty (30) days prior to the event. The banners must be taken down
within seven (7) days after the event takes place.
   (F)   Portable signs.
      (1)   In locations other than planned commercial developments, or
shopping centers, mobile, portable signs shall be permitted for periods of
thirty (30) days for the purpose of advertising special events or sale specials
which may be offered by an enterprise. Such signs must be placed so as not to
obstruct the motorist's view of the right-of-way, and must be setback at least
to the midpoint of the required setback line and the traveled portion of the
roadway. In no instance shall such signs be closer than ten (10) feet to the
roadway.
      (2)   A permit for the placement of portable signs must be obtained from
the zoning administrator. Permits will be valid for a period of thirty (30)
days from the date of issue, and are not renewable. A period of thirty (30)
days must elapse before a portable sign may be displayed on the same lot.
      (3)   The fee for the issuance of a portable sign permit shall be five
dollars ($5.00) for each thirty (30)-day period.
   (G)   Permanent signs, billboards. The purpose of this article is to promote
and protect the public health, welfare, and safety by regulating existing and
proposed billboard signs installation and usage. It is intended to protect
property values, create a more attractive economic and business climate,
enhance and protect the physical appearance of the community, and preserve the
scenic and natural beauty of designated areas. It is further intended to reduce
billboard distraction and obstructions that may contribute to traffic
accidents, reduce hazards that may be caused by signs overhanging or projecting
over public rights-of-way, provide more open space, and curb the deterioration
of the natural environment and enhance community development.
      (1)   Permanent signs, such as billboards, are classified as structures
within the meaning of this chapter and require that a permit be obtained prior
to erection or construction. (As previously noted, billboards along federal aid
highways are subject to state and federal regulations. However, the regulations
of this title may be more stringent than those of the Kentucky Department of
Transportation).
      (2)   No billboards shall be permitted in any residential district.
      (3)   Unless otherwise prescribed in other sections of this chapter, the
following maximum dimensions apply to billboards:
         (a)   Maximum area: four hundred (400) feet square
         (b)   Maximum height: forty (40) feet
   Measured from the average grade level at the base of the sign; however, if
the average level at the base of the sign is lower than the average grade level
of the adjacent highway, then the maximum height shall be thirty (30) feet,
measured from the average grade level of the highway.
         (c)   Minimum distance from right-of-way or property line: twenty (20)
feet.
   (H)   Permits for sign and billboard construction or erection.
      (1)   Applications for the construction or erection of new permanent
signs, or for modifications of existing billboards and signs, shall be made to
the zoning administrator on forms to be provided by said Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   A fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) shall accompany the
application to defray the cost of issuing a permit and for the inspection of a
sign after its installation. A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall accompany
the application to defray the cost of issuing a permit and for the inspection
of a billboard after its installation.
   (I)   Billboards. For the purpose of this section, billboards shall be
defined as a freestanding sign advertising a business, commodity, service,
activity, or entertainment not taking place on the premises upon which the
billboard is located. Billboards, where permitted, shall be set back from the
established rights-of-way of any state or federal road or highway at least one
hundred (100) feet, provided that any billboard adjacent to the William Natcher
Parkway shall be set back six hundred sixty (660) feet from the established
right-of-way. Signs and billboards located at the intersection of two (2) or
more roads or highways shall meet the setback requirements of both roads and
highways. Billboards shall be permitted only along state and federal highways
in business, light and heavy industrial districts, and agricultural zoning
districts. They shall be located no closer than five hundred (500) feet from
any residential district or subdivision and shall not exceed a height that will
impede the direct line of sight of a pre-existing residential dwelling or place
of business. Billboards shall be located no closer than two hundred (200) feet
apart measured from the center of each billboard on the same side of the road
or highway and no closer than fifty (50) feet to the side or rear property
line. Billboards shall be installed using one of three (3) approved
construction specifications.
      (1)   Steel A-frame construction:
         (a)   This class of billboards is constructed with angle iron or steel
supports with metal framing, and a single display panel. Supports may be
imbedded in the ground.
         (b)   There may be a foundation of concrete or gravel. Lighting, if
present, is either fluorescent or mercury vapor.
      (2)   Base specifications:
         (a)   Structure: steel pole, angle iron, I-beam or equivalent as
primary support.
         (b)   Foundation: concrete, gravel or equivalent.
         (c)   Platform or catwalk: included in base.
         (d)   Panels: included in base.
         (e)   Apron: included in base.
         (f)   Lighting: included in base.
         (g)   Additional panels: none.
      (3)   Multi-mast structure: This class of billboards is constructed with
steel pole, I-beam or equivalent as primary support, and a single display
panel. Lighting is fluorescent or mercury vapor.
      (4)   Base specifications:
         (a)   Structure: steel pole, angle iron, I-beam or equivalent as
primary support.
         (b)   Foundation: concrete gravel or equivalent.
         (c)   Platform or catwalk: included in base.
         (d)   Panels: included in base.
         (e)   Apron: included in base.
         (f)   Lighting: included in base.
         (g)   Additional panels: none.
      (5)   Monopole: This class of billboards is constructed with tubular
steel support (of various circumferences), tubular steel framing, metal catwalk
and a single display panel. The foundation is concrete. Lighting is fluorescent
or mercury vapor.
         (a)   Structure: tubular steel supports.
         (b)   Foundation: poured concrete.
         (c)   Platform or catwalk: included in base.
         (d)   Panels: included in base.
         (e)   Apron: included in base.
         (f)   Lighting: included in base.
         (g)   Additional panels: none.
   (J)   Government signage. Any official informational signs, directional
signs, or historical marker erected by a government agency is permitted in all
zones and does not require a location or building permit.
   (K)   Lack of conflict. In no way shall the provisions of this article be
taken to be in conflict with state or federal regulations regarding
obstructions or placement of structures in the state or federal right-of-ways.
In all cases, the most restrictive provision will apply.
   (L)   Ingress and egress free. No outdoor advertising display sign shall be
erected, constructed, or maintained so as to obstruct any fire escape or any
window or door or opening used as a means of egress or so as to prevent free
passage from one part of a roof to any part thereof. No sign shall be attached
in any form, shape, or manner to a fire escape and shall not be placed in such
a manner as to interfere with any opening required for legal ventilation.
   (M)   Flashing signs. Flashing signs shall not be permitted in any zone,
whether permanent or temporary on or off premise. Flashing signs shall be
defined as a sign, the illumination of which is not kept constant in intensity
at all times when in use. Illuminated signs which indicate time, temperature,
weather or similar public service information, shall not be considered flashing
signs. Revolving signs of constant illumination shall not be considered
flashing signs.
   (N)   Temporary and political signs.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         “TEMPORARY SIGN.” A sign intended for a use not permanent in nature.
For the purposes of which is intended for use of one (1) year or less, unless
otherwise allowed or waived in this section, shall be deemed a temporary sign.
         “POLITICAL SIGN.” A temporary sign on private property with gained
permission that consists of a poster, placard, board, banner or other similar
medium that contains a message related to a matter of public interest including
but not limited to a candidate for office or a ballot issue, but containing no
commercial message.
         “RESPONSIBILITY FOR CANDIDATE ADVERTISEMENT.” Pursuant to KRS 121.190,
identification of contributors and advertisers.
            1.   All newspaper or magazine advertising, posters, circulars,
billboards, handbills, sample ballots, and paid-for television or radio
announcements which expressly advocate the election or defeat of a clearly
identified candidate, slate of candidates, or group of candidates for
nomination or election to any public office shall be identified by the words
"paid for by" followed by the name and address of the individual or committee
which paid for the communication: except that if paid for by a candidate, slate
of candidates, or campaign committee, it shall be identified only by the words
"paid for by" followed by the name of the candidate, slate of candidates, or
campaign committee, whichever is applicable. For television and radio
broadcasts, compliance with Federal Communications Commission, regulations
regarding sponsored programs and broadcasts by candidates for public office
shall be considered compliance with this section.
            2.   The management of newspapers and magazines shall keep a one
(1) year record of all statements, articles, or advertisements referred to in
subsection 1. of this section, that appear in their publications, however,
nothing in subsection 1. of this section shall be construed to require editors
or editorial writers of newspapers and magazines to identify themselves in the
manner therein required with any article or editorial written by them as part
of their duties as an employee or employer.
      (2)   Temporary and or political signs should be set back to minimum of
twenty five (25) feet from the center line on, the adjacent road or ten (10)
feet from the right-of-way of the road as determined by the property owner's
line intersecting with a defined right-of-way whichever is the greater
distance. Where there is a substantial permanent barrier, either natural or
constructed. between a sign and the roadway the Zoning Administrator may permit
closer placement if public safety is not affected. All movable signs shall be
classified as temporary signs. However such signs must be in compliance with
all other regulations outlined in this section. All temporary signs must be in
compliance with regulations for signs and billboards in regard to placement
including visibility at intersections as outlined, For purposes of this
section, a "MOVABLE SIGN" is any sign capable of being moved with the use of a
mechanical device.
      (3)   Political campaign signage.
         (a)   Temporary political signs, should meet the following criteria:
            1.   Encourages a particular vote in a scheduled election.
            2.   Signs should be placed no sooner than one hundred twenty (120)
days prior to the scheduled election and should be removed within ten (10) days
after that election.
            3.   Is no larger than sixty four (64) square feet.
            4.   Have a Statement of Responsibility filed with the City of
Morgantown certifying a person who will be responsible for removal of the sign.
These forms are available at the County Clerk's Office or Morgantown City Hall.
         (b)   Political signs should be posted no earlier than one hundred-
twenty,(120) days prior to an election. Political signs shall be removed no
later than ten (10) days after a primary election. However, winners in a
primary election, persons not opposed in a primary election, or other
candidates who qualify for a general election, shall not be required to remove
their signs until ten (10) days after the general election. The Commission
shall require a signed notification, of intent to erect signs by the candidate
or their authorized representative in lieu of a fee per sign. It will be the
candidate or his authorized representative's responsibility to see that
election signs are removed within the number of days that are specified for its
removal. Candidates who fail to make the required notification may be charged a
fee at the same rate charged for non-political signs. Such signs may be located
on private property only with the owner's permission or consent. It shall be
presumed the property owner has given permission or consents to the sign's
placement unless the property owner notifies the city otherwise.
   (O)   Temporary Signage (yard sale and special event signage). All signs
must be placed in conformity with this section except those that are
advertising a yard sale, or special events, material should consist of card
board or vinyl signs with areas not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet, mounted
on furring strips or similar wooden material, may be placed without regard to
this section, except that no sign shall be placed where it may be a hazard or
have the potential to create a hazard. Signs not in conformity with this
chapter or ones for which there has been no deposit or fee, will be covered
over or removed if such signs are on public streets or right-of-ways. Sections
of this section may also apply. Yard sale signs may be posted no earlier than
fourteen (14) days prior to a sale. They must be removed no later than ten (10)
days following the final day of the sale. Any temporary sign perceived by the
Administrator as presenting a hazard to traffic or the general public shall be
removed immediately by the owner upon written notice from the Zoning
Administrator. Under no circumstances shall political or yard sale signs be
posted on utility poles. All persistent or willful violations of these
regulations may be penalized and fined fifty dollars ($50.00) in accordance
with this Zoning Ordinance. Provisions regarding the regulation of other
temporary signs apply as required in other sections of this article.
   (P)   Temporary sign exception (waiver request form). A waiver can be
requested in writing by the vested group or organization from the Zoning
Administrator or at City Hall. For the placement of temporary signs advertising
public services and non-profit events and may be granted at the city’s
discretion.
   (Q)   Amortization of nonconforming signs. All nonconforming signs must
either be altered to conform with this chapter or be removed within a period of
seven (7) years from the date of the approval of the ordinance codified in this
chapter by the City Council.
   (R)   Sign maintenance.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to inspect all
signs or billboards upon which a complaint has been made, or when the Zoning
Administrator has a personal knowledge that a sign is not in compliance with
zoning regulations.
      (2)   Should any sign become insecure or in danger of falling or
otherwise unsafe in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, the owner thereof
or the person or firm maintaining the same, shall upon written notice from the
Zoning Administrator, in the case of immediate danger forthwith and in any case
within ten (10) days secure the same manner to be approved by the Zoning
Administrator or remove such sign. If such order is not compliant within ten
(10) days, the Zoning Administrator may remove such sign at the expense of the
owner or lessee thereof.
      (3)   All signs for which a permit is required, together with all their
supports, braces, guys, and anchors, should be kept in repair unless
constructed of galvanized or non-corroding material and shall be thoroughly
painted at least once every two (2) years. The Zoning Administrator may order
the removal of any sign that is not maintained in accordance with the
provisions of this section. Such removal shall be at the expense of the owner
or lessee.
      (4)   Any sign now or hereafter existing which no longer advertises a
reputable business shall be taken down and removed by the owner, his agent, or
person having the beneficial use of the building, structure, or lot. Upon
failure to comply with such notice within the time specified in such order, the
Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized to cause the removal of such sign,
and any expense incidental thereto shall be paid by the owner, of the building,
structure, or lot to which the sign is attached. The Board of Adjustment may
waive this requirement only for historic preservation purposes and when the
owner can prove the need for the waiver to qualify for funding or tax credits.
   (S)   Violations. In any case where a sign shall be installed, erected,
constructed or maintained and found to be in violation of any of the terms of
this section, the Enforcement or Zoning Administrator shall notify by
registered mail or written notice served personally to the owner or lessee
thereof to alter such sign as to comply with this Zoning Ordinance and to
secure the necessary permit therefor, or to remove the sign. If such order is
not complied with within ten (10) days, the Zoning Administrator shall remove
such sign at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof. Additionally, failure
to comply with any of the provisions of this article shall result in a fifty
dollar ($50.00) fine per violation, and shall be punishable under this section.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 3 (3.024, 3.0241-3.0246), 1988; Am. Ord. 2013-08, passed 6-19-
13; Am. Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-10-14; Am. Ord. passed 4- -23)
§ 80.202 OUTDOOR SWIMMING POOLS
   (A)   All private swimming pools shall be regulated according to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Swimming pools shall be permitted to be located only to the rear of
the principal permitted dwelling or dwellings.
      (2)   Except as herein provided, no swimming pool, including the
apparatus and equipment pertaining to the operation of the swimming pool shall
be permitted within any required yards of the lot nor within the limits of any
public utility right-of-way easement.
      (3)   Swimming pools which are constructed in-ground shall be required to
have a fence or wall, including a self-closing and self-latching door or gate,
with the latches placed at least four (4) feet above the ground, around the
pool or the property on which the pool is located, of at least four (4) feet,
but not exceeding six (6) feet (only classes 1, 3, 4, or 5 are permitted, as
regulated in § 80.203 of this chapter); such fences or walls shall be
constructed in such a manner that any openings shall not allow the passage of a
four (4) inch diameter sphere.
      (4)   (a)   Swimming pools which are located above-ground shall be
required to have a fence or wall, including a self-closing and self-latching
door or gate, with the latches placed at least four (4) feet above the ground,
around the pool or property upon which the pool is located, of at least four
(4) feet in height, but not exceeding six (6) feet (only classes 1, 3, 4, and 5
are permitted, as regulated by §
80.203  of this chapter). Such a fence or wall shall be constructed in such a
manner that any openings shall not allow the passage of a four (4) inch
diameter sphere. Said wall may be the wall of the above-ground pool, providing
that said wall is at least four (4) feet in height above the surrounding ground
level.
         (b)   In addition, any access to above ground pools by means of a
ladder or stairway shall be provided with a self-closing and self-latching door
or gate, with the latches placed at least four (4) feet above the ground, or
some other device that would prevent a small child from gaining access to the
pool by means of a ladder or stairway.
      (5)   Glare from flood lights used to illuminate the swimming pool area
for night bathing shall be directed away from adjacent properties.
      (6)   All swimming pools and associated equipment shall be constructed
and erected in accordance with all applicable codes, ordinances, and
regulations of the legislative body. Water used in the swimming pool, which is
obtained from other than a public source, shall be approved by the Barren
Butler County Health Department.
      (7)   All swimming pools existing at the time of adoption of this
chapter, which are unprotected by a surrounding fence or wall, including gates
or doors, as regulated herein, shall be required to comply with the provisions
of this chapter section within sixty (60) days after its adoption.
   (B)   Public, semi-public, and commercial swimming pools. All public, semi-
public, and commercial swimming pools shall be regulated according to the
following requirements.
      (1)   Except as herein provided, no swimming pool and associated
equipment shall be permitted within any required yards or within the limits of
any public utility right-of-way easement.
      (2)   The swimming pool, or the property on which the pool is located,
shall be surrounded by a fence or wall, including a self-closing and self-
locking door or gate, with the latches placed at least four (4) feet above the
ground, (only classes 1, 3, 4, and 5 fences are permitted, as regulated by §
80.203  of this chapter) at least five (5) feet in height, but not exceeding
the height as permitted herein, and of such construction that any openings
shall not allow the passage of a four (4) inch diameter sphere.
      (3)   Glare from flood lights used to illuminate the swimming pool area
for night bathing shall be directed away from adjacent properties.
      (4)   All swimming pools and associated equipment of the swimming pool
shall be constructed and erected in accordance with all applicable codes,
ordinances, and regulations of the city. Water used in the operation of the
swimming pool, which is obtained from other than a public source, shall be
approved by the Butler County Health Department.
      (5)   No mechanical device for the reproduction or amplification of
sounds used in connection with swimming pools shall create a nuisance to
adjacent residential properties through the emission of noises, voices, or
music which is loud enough to cause complaints from said adjacent residential
property owners.
(Ord. passed 4- -23)
§ 80.203 FENCES, WALLS, AND OBSTRUCTION TO VIEW REGULATIONS
   (A)   Vision clearance at corners and railroad crossings. Except as herein
provided, no fence, wall, hedge, or other obstruction, above a height of
thirty-six (36) inches, as measured above the curb level, shall be erected,
placed, maintained, or continued in any zone, within that triangular portion of
a corner lot formed by measuring fifty (50) feet from the intersection of the
right-of-way lines of two (2) streets or of the right-of-way line of a street
intersection with a and joining these points with a straight line. No type of
tree, or planting, or other obstruction, shall be planted, placed, maintained,
or continued in such a manner which would obstruct the vision clearance at
corners.
   (B)   Classification of fences and walls. The following shall be the
classification of fences and walls for this chapter:
      (1)   Masonry walls.
      (2)   Ornamental iron (eighty percent (80%) open).
      (3)   Woven wire (eighty percent (80%) open); and chain link.
      (4)   Wood or other materials (more than fifty percent (50%) open).
      (5)   Solid fences, wood or other materials (less than fifty percent
(50%) open).
      (6)   Hedges.
      (7)   Barbed wire or sharp pointed fences.
      (8)   Earthen or concrete walls intended to contain or redirect flooding
waters.
   (C)   Residential zones. Fences and/or walls within all residential (R)
zones, including their applicable overlay zone, shall conform to the following
requirements:
      (1)   The requirements for the residential (R) zones for residential uses
only, are as set forth and depicted on Figure 1 of this chapter.
      (2)   The location, height, and type of all fences and/or walls within
any area zoned shall be as approved by the planning commission.
      (3)   For all non-residential uses conditionally permitted in any
residential zone herein, the requirements are as follows:
         (a)   Fences of class 2 or 3 only shall be permitted in front yards,
including the front yard of corner lots, as governed by § 80.203. Said fences
may be erected up to a maximum height of seventy-two (72) inches.
         (b)   Classes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 fences and/or walls may be erected in
rear yard, up to a maximum height of seventy-two (72) inches, provided,
however, for the following exceptions.
            1.   General purpose recreational areas may be enclosed with fences
and/or walls of Class 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 up to a maximum height of ninety-
six (96) inches.
            2.   Class 3 fences (or a combination of 3 and 7) may be erected to
enclose tennis courts or as backstops for baseball and/or softball fields, up
to a maximum height of one hundred and forty-four (144) inches.
            3.   In the case of corner lots, as governed by § 80.203, fences of
class 2 or 3 only may be erected, as regulated by the applicable provisions of
this section.
   (D)   Commercial and industrial zones. Fences and/or walls within all
commercial and industrial zones, including those permitted with all
conditionally permitted uses in this zone shall conform to the following
requirements: except as provided for in § 80.203, fences of class 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, or 6 may be erected in front, side, and rear yards of commercial zones, up
to a maximum height of seventy-two (72) inches. In the case of corner lots, as
governed by § 80.203, fences of class 2 or 3 only, may be erected up to a
maximum height of seventy-two (72) inches. In all commercial and industrial
zones, a combination of class 3 and 7 fence (chain link with three (3) strands
of barbed wire) may be erected, including corner lots, as governed by § 80.203,
up to a maximum height of eighty-four (84) inches.
   (E)   Measurement of all fence and/or wall heights and/or locations.
      (1)   All fences and/or wall heights shall be measured along the fence or
wall locations.
      (2)   All locations for distance measurements shall be measured from lot
lines.
   (F)   Height of any barbed wire or sharp pointed fences. In all zones,
barbed wire or sharp pointed fences, where permitted, must start a minimum of
sixty (60) inches above ground level.
   (G)   Height of fences atop retaining walls.
      (1)   A combination fence and retaining wall may be erected. The
retaining wall portion may be erected up to the level of the higher finished
grade. The fence portion must be of the class and height permitted within this
chapter for the applicable zone. Said measurement shall be made at and along
the location of the fence and retaining wall.
      (2)   No fence shall be erected, except as exempted or specified within
this chapter, until all required fees have been paid to the proper authorities
or their agents and the necessary permits have been issued for such by the
zoning administrator and the building inspector in accordance with this
chapter.
   Figure 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e11b0d200cf7ca71262d3e58318467fceb377a38/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2303.png]
 
(Ord. passed 4- -23)
Division 2. Manufactured Homes and Manufactured Home Parks 
§ 80.220 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS ALLOWED AS PERMITTED USES AND CONDITIONAL USES
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions and
stipulations as set forth in KRS 100.348, KRS 227.550, and KRS 219.310 through
219.410 and including 902 KAR 15:010 and International Property Maintenance
Code 2012 Edition adapted by the City of Morgantown (Ordinance 2017-01) shall
apply:
      “MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.” A residential area in which manufactured home
lots are rented exclusively for use as sites for certified mobile and
manufactured homes for residential use along with other uses permitted herein.
Ownership of all land in a “MANUFACTURED HOME PARK” shall be maintained by the
developer, his or her heirs, successors, or assignees. No lots shall be severed
and sold from the “MANUFACTURED HOME PARK” and shall fall in compliance.
   (B)   As used in this section unless the context requires otherwise:
      “COMPATIBILITY STANDARDS.” Standards that have been enacted by a local
government under the authority of this section for the purpose of protecting
and preserving the monetary value of real property located within the local
government's jurisdiction.
      “LOCAL GOVERNMENT.” A city, county, urban-county government, charter
county government, or consolidated local government that is engaged in planning
and zoning under KRS 100.348.
      “MANUFACTURED HOME.” A single-family residential dwelling constructed
after June 15, 1976, in accordance with the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 USC, Section 5401, et seq.,
as amended, and designed to be used as a single-family residential dwelling
with or without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
and which includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein.
      “OWNER OF RECORD.” The person recorded on public real estate records as
the owner of real property.
      “QUALIFIED MANUFACTURED HOME.” A manufactured home that meets all the
following criteria as set forth in sections in this division.
   (C)   The following compatibility standards apply to all mobile homes,
manufactured homes and qualified manufactured homes as described in KRS 100.348
and KRS 227.550.
      (1)   Parking of a manufactured/mobile home in any B-1 (Central Business
District), B-2 (Commercial District), O-1 (Office and Professional Building
District), or I (Industrial District) shall be strictly prohibited, but Type I
manufactured homes may be permitted in a residential or agricultural zones with
special permission of the Planning and Zoning Commission or conditional use
permit issued by board of adjustment.
      (2)   All manufactured home or qualified manufactured home parks shall
conform to all applicable provisions of this zoning code, and all attached
special conditions. All manufactured home parks shall be subject to the
regulations as set forth in this chapter and the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.221 WHERE PERMITTED
   (A)   Type I, Type II, Type III manufactured homes, and certified mobile
homes shall be permitted only in manufactured home parks, except as provided
for in this division.
   (B)   Classification of manufactured/certified mobile homes. Manufactured
and certified mobile homes shall be classified by type as to acceptable
compatibility or similarity in appearance with site constructed residences as
defined.
      (1)   Type I manufactured homes shall:
         (a)   Have a minimum of one thousand four hundred and fifty-six
(1,456) square feet of occupied space or twenty-six (26) feet by fifty-six (56)
feet in a double or larger multi-section unit.
         (b)   Be placed on a permanent foundation.
         (c)   Utilize a permanent perimeter foundation and enclosure, if
applicable, in accordance with approved installation standards, as specified in
this chapter.
         (d)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the One- and Two-
Family Dwelling Code and to the manufacturer's specifications.
         (e)   Have wheels, axles, and hitch (tongue) mechanisms removed.
         (f)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with this chapter and
manufacturer's specifications.
         (g)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences.
         (h)   Have roofing materials of a type customarily used on site
constructed residences.
      (2)   Type II manufactured homes shall:
         (a)   Have more than five hundred (500) square feet of occupied space
in a single, double, expanded, or multi-section unit (including those with add-
a-room units).
         (b)   Be placed onto a support system, in accordance with approved
installation standards.
         (c)   Be enclosed with foundation siding/skirting, in accordance with
approved installation standards.
         (d)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with manufacturer's
specifications or the ANSI/NFPA 501 A Installation Standards; have utilities
connected in accordance with manufacturer's specifications or the ANSI/NFPA 501
A Installation Standards.
         (e)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences.
         (f)   Have roofing material of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences.
      (3)   Type III manufactured homes shall:
         (a)   Have more than five hundred (500) square feet of occupied space
in a single, double, expando, or multi-section unit (including those with add-
a-room units).
         (b)    Be constructed after the 1976 Federal Mobile Home Construction
and Safety Act went into effect.
         (c)   Be placed onto a support system, in accordance with approved
installation standards.
         (d)   Be enclosed with foundation siding/skirting, in accordance with
approved installation standards.
         (e)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with manufacturer's
specifications or the ANSI/NFPA 501 A Installation Standards.
         (f)   Have utilities connected, in accordance with manufacturer's
specifications or the ANSI/NFPA 501 A Installation Standards.
      (4)   Certified mobile homes. For purposes of determining appropriateness
for placement, certified mobile homes shall:
         (a)   Have more than five hundred (500) square feet of occupied space.
         (b)   Be placed onto support system, in accordance with approved
installation standards, as specified.
         (c)   Be built prior to the 1976 Federal Mobile Home Construction and
Safety Act and be upgraded to be able to receive a “B” seal certifying that the
unit has been inspected and in compliance with standards set forth in the HUD
Code.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.222 AREA AND DENSITY REQUIREMENTS
   (A)   No manufactured home park shall be permitted on an area of less than
three (3) acres in size.
   (B)   The developer may be permitted to develop the park in stages as long
as he or she complies with the overall approved plan for the entire tract and
initially has a minimum of ten (10) manufactured home lots developed for use.
   (C)   The number of manufactured homes permitted in the park shall not
exceed a density of twelve (12) manufactured homes a net acre.
   (D)   A net acre is the land to be subdivided into lots after streets and
other required improvements have been installed.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.223 LOT REQUIREMENTS
    Individual lots within a manufactured home park shall not be less than four
thousand (4,000) square feet in area and in no instance shall more than one (1)
manufactured home be permitted on a single lot. The minimum lot width shall be
thirty-five (35) feet.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.224 SETBACK
   No manufactured home or structure shall be located closer to a public street
than thirty- five (35) feet or than the minimum front yard setback for
permanent residential structures in the residential zone in which the park is
located. No manufactured home shall be closer than twenty-five (25) feet from a
street within the manufactured home park. No manufactured home shall be located
closer than fifteen (15) feet to any building within the park or to any
property line of the park.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.225 FRONTAGE
   All manufactured home parks shall front on a public street or road for at
least one hundred (100) feet.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.226 SPACING
    No manufactured home shall be located within thirty (30) feet of another
manufactured home except that a minimum end-to-end clearance of not less than
ten (10) feet shall be permitted and in instances where the sides opposite the
entrance of two (2) manufactured homes face each other, the amount of space
between the two (2) manufactured homes may be reduced to not less than twenty
(20) feet.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.227 STREETS
   All manufactured homes spaces shall abut upon a street. All streets within
the manufactured home park shall have a right-of-way of not less than thirty
(30) feet and a pavement of not less than twenty-two (22) feet. Each park shall
have at least one (1) street which gives access to a public street. Such access
streets in either a single manufactured home park or adjoining parks shall not
be less than one hundred (100) feet apart nor less than one hundred and twenty-
five (125) feet from an intersection of two (2) or more public streets. All
streets within the park shall be hard-surfaced and well-lighted. No street
within the manufactured home park shall be closer than five (5) feet of the
property line.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.228 PARKING
   (A)   One (1) paved automobile parking area shall be provided on every
manufactured home lot, plus one (1) parking space for each manufactured home
lot.
   (B)   This additional parking may be in a central location, but in no case
shall the parking be more than three hundred and fifty (350) feet from the
trailer space for which it is provided.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.229 UTILITIES
   All lots within the manufactured home park shall be provided with water,
sewer and electrical facilities meeting the standards specified by city and
state regulations and each manufactured home shall be properly connected with
those utilities.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.230 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES
   (A)   No accessory structure including patios and pads shall be located
within five (5) feet from any manufactured home lot line.
   (B)   Mini warehouses/storage units, which provide for rental, small storage
facilities that are offered for use to the public. The P/Z Commission when
granting requests for mini-warehouse facilities may limit the number of units
provided, restrict the size or orientation of any structure, require screening,
buffering, or landscaping, require a specific type of building material,
require green landscape buffer areas, require storm water abatement measures,
or impose any other requirement that it deems necessary to help the requested
use blend into its unique surroundings.
   (C)   Storage containers, portable or mobile units are not considered to be
used for rental, or small storage facilities that are offered for use to the
public.
   (D)   Any outdoor storage area shall be completely screened with a six (6)
foot high solid fence or wall from adjoining uses and streets and shall be
landscaped and paved. Such outdoor storage areas shall not be used as vehicle
impound yards or junk yards, as defined in this chapter or other local
ordinances. Storage of vehicles shall be limited to those vehicles to be
repaired on the premises. The P/Z Commission may establish additional
conditions, which it believes are necessary to assure compatibility with
neighboring uses.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16; Am. Ord. passed 1- -24)
§ 80.231 CONDITIONS
   The City Planning Commission (P/Z Commission) and board of adjustment shall
attach any condition it deems necessary to ensure the proper development of the
manufactured home park.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.232 NONCONFORMING MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARKS
   (A)   The lawful use of a manufactured/mobile home park by the owner of
record, existing prior to or at the time of passage of this chapter may be
continued, although such use may not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
The continuance of a nonconforming manufactured/mobile home park shall be
subject to the nonconforming provision of this chapter, with the exception that
a nonconforming manufactured/mobile home park does not present a health or
safety hazard, meets state and federal standards and may not be enlarged or
expanded unless such enlargement or expansion shall meet the regulations set
forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Any manufactured home that comes under the above description by the
owner of record and should ever be moved replaced, destroyed and the P/
Z Commission or board of adjustment has previously granted a conditional use
permit for the proposed structure and the property owner has not changed since
the P/Z Commission or board of adjustment ruling, a structure that comes under
the above description can be replaced without board approval so long as the
structure is a Type I, Type II or Type III manufactured home and meets all
standards as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.233 REQUIREMENTS FOR LOCATION OUTSIDE APPROVED PARKS
   A certified mobile home or qualified manufactured home, whether permanent or
portable, shall not be permitted on lots outside of approved manufactured home
parks unless it is a Type I manufactured home and the following requirements
have been met:
   (A)   This use shall be allowed on individual lots of record only; for the
use of property owner as a Type I manufactured home, personal permanent
dwelling, and meets compatibility standards of the surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   Type I manufactured homes shall:
      (1)   Have a minimum of one thousand four hundred and fifty-six (1,456)
square feet of occupied space or twenty-six (26) feet by fifty-six (56) feet in
a double or larger multi-section unit.
      (2)   Be placed on a permanent foundation.
      (3)   Utilize a permanent perimeter foundation and enclosure, if
applicable, in accordance with approved installation standards, as specified.
      (4)   Be anchored to the ground, in accordance with the One- and Two-
Family Dwelling Code and to the manufacturer's specifications.
      (5)   Have wheels, axles, and hitch (tongue) mechanisms removed.
      (6)   Have siding material of a type customarily used on site-constructed
residences.
      (7)   Have roofing materials of a type customarily used on site
constructed residences. The list of approved roofing materials shall be adopted
and revised by the building inspector only.
   (C)   Any structure that comes under the above description, shall be allowed
as the principal building only, and in no case be set adjacent to, or become a
part of, any other building on the lot.
   (D)   The placement of any such structure must be approved in writing by P/
Z Commission or the board of adjustment.
   (E)   The P/Z Commission or board of adjustment shall hold a public hearing
and advertise the hearing according to law before this special exception may be
granted.
   (F)   The P/Z Commission or board of adjustment may attach certain
conditions to its approval which it feels are necessary to preserve and protect
the character of the district in which the proposed use would locate.
   (G)   The P/Z Commission or board of adjustment may permit a structure of
this description to be placed on lots that do not meet the density requirements
of residential districts, but in no case shall they be permitted on lots that
do not meet the density requirements for manufactured home parks.
   (H)   The electric inspector, plumbing inspector or utility companies shall
not allow utility service to these structures until all requirements as set
forth by the P/Z Commission or board of adjustment have been complied with.
   (I)   If any structure that comes under the above description should ever be
moved replaced, destroyed and the P/Z Commission or board of adjustment has
previously granted a conditional use permit for the proposed structure and the
property owner has not changed since the P/Z Commission or board of adjustment
ruling, a structure that comes under the above description can be replaced
without board approval so long as the structure is a Type I manufactured home
and meets all standards as set forth in this chapter.
   (J)   Should any structure that comes under the above description should
ever be moved or destroyed and the P/Z Commission or board of adjustment has
not previously granted a conditional use permit for the proposed structure the
current property owner must apply for a conditional use permit before any
replacement of the structure is to occur.
   (K)   A zoning permit is to be obtained. The zoning administrator shall not
issue a zoning permit for a manufactured home as standard housing located
outside a mobile home park unless a measured plot plan is submitted which shows
the lot boundaries, the placement of the manufactured home and which shows that
the required building set-back side and rear yards are provided as required by
the zone in which the mobile home is to be placed and meets all standards as
set forth in this chapter.
   (L)   The manufactured home has been located on a lot of record in a manner
consistent with the plot plan and that the required setback and side and rear
yards are provided consistent with the zone requirements.
   (M)   No manufactured/mobile home located outside a manufactured/mobile home
park may be occupied unless and until all utilities and other connections are
permanently made and adhere to the code applicable to the zone.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.234 NONCONFORMING MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOMES
   (A)   The lawful use of a manufactured/mobile home by the owner of record,
existing prior to or at the time of passage of this chapter may be continued,
although such use may not conform to the provisions of this chapter. The
continuance of a nonconforming manufactured/mobile home shall be subject to the
nonconforming provision of this chapter, with the exception that a
nonconforming manufactured/mobile home does not present a health or safety
hazard, meets state and federal standards, and may not be enlarged or expanded
unless such enlargement or expansion shall meet the regulations set forth in
this chapter.
   (B)   If any structure that comes under the above description by the owner
of record and should ever be moved replaced, destroyed and the P/Z Commission
or board of adjustment has previously granted a conditional use permit for the
proposed structure and the property owner has not changed since the P/
Z Commission or board of adjustment ruling, a structure that comes under the
above description can be replaced without board approval so long as the
structure is a Type I, Type II or Type III manufactured home and meets all
standards as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.235   EXPANSION OF A MANUFACTURED HOME PARK
   (A)   Where the owner of an existing manufactured home park sees the need to
expand his or her park and is willing to bring the present park into compliance
with this division, the Planning and Zoning Commission may, or board of
adjustment may grant a variance to the area requirements and issue a permit for
expansion.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit a preliminary and final plat in compliance
with this division. The final plat shall also show the following information:
      (1)   Public area, such as visitors’ parking, recreational area, and the
like, if the areas are proposed.
      (2)   Large scale plan of one typical manufactured home lot showing
manufactured home location, automobile parking space and the like.
      (3)   Location of planting for landscaping purposes or as required for
protective buffer purposes as a special condition.
   (C)   The city planning and zoning commission may attach reasonable special
conditions to its approval of a manufactured home park and direct the zoning
administrator to issue a zoning permit when the applicant presents a valid
construction permit from the state’s Department of Health, Division of
Environmental Health, and Sanitation Program, as required by KRS 219.320 And
KRS 219.330. The zoning administrator shall not issue the zoning permit until
he or she has received written authorization from the city planning commission
or board of adjustment, if the manufactured home park is to be located within
the city limits and until the valid construction permit is presented.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.236 REGULATIONS FOR NON-TRADITIONAL MANUFACTURED HOUSING/MODULAR HOUSING
   (A)   The definition of terms used in these sections shall be that set forth
in KRS 360.150, the Kentucky Housing Code, and the International Property
Maintenance Code 2012 Edition adapted by the City of Morgantown (Ordinance
2017-01) unless further defined herein.
   (B)   Modular housing, as defined is a structure designed primarily for
residential or commercial occupancy, designed, and constructed to the Kentucky
or National Building Code, which is manufactured in one or more sections in a
factory for installation on a permanent foundation at its final location.
   (C)   Modular homes shall not include manufactured/mobile home, camping
trailer, travel trailer, recreational vehicle, motor home, pickup camper, or
auto camper.
   (D)   Modular homes shall include prefabricated, manufactured or a factory-
built structure designed to be used as a dwelling.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.237 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND RV PARKS
   (A)   Recreational vehicles (RVs) as defined in this chapter is a motorized
or pull behind, wheeled vehicle used for camping or other recreational
activities.
   (B)   An RV shall under no circumstances be utilized as the principal
structure for any residential or commercial use.
   (C)   No RV shall be used as an incidental structure or accessory structure
to any residential or commercial use for a length of time greater than fourteen
(14) days.
   (D)   (1)   Any proposed RV park shall conform to all regulations required
to establish a mobile/manufactured home park in all zoning districts which
allow it.
      (2)   When considering a proposed RV park, the city planning commission
reserves the right to deny any and all application based on roadway capacity,
buffer zones, safety issues, etc. in accordance with the city’s zoning
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.238   JOB TRAILERS
   (A)   A job trailer is any structure that is transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and used as an office for on-
site construction purposes, with or without a permanent foundation.
   (B)   A job trailer is allowed to be located on any job site that is
currently under construction or in the pre-meditated phases of construction.
   (C)   A job trailer does not require approval from the board of adjustment.
   (D)   In any case where a job is completed, and the structure has been
issued a zoning permit or resumed normal business the job trailer is to be
removed from the site.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.239 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS ENFORCEMENT AND
ABATEMENT COSTS
   Abatement and enforcement for manufactured homes and manufactured home parks
found in violation of this chapter shall be considered and treated as public
nuisances and or blighted property.
(Ord. passed 4-12-16)
§ 80.240 POSTAL STANDARDS
   Postal standards shall comply with the U.S. Postal Service National Delivery
Planning Standards A Guide for Builders and Developers Handbook PO-632 (July
2020).
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 4 (4.090-4.096), 1988); Am. Ord. passed 4-12-16)
ARTICLE IV. PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
Division 1. General Provisions
§ 80.300 PROPOSED USE; APPROVAL OF COMMISSION
   (A)   The development of land exceeding one (1) acre in size for residential
and commercial uses (other than for one (1) single-family dwelling on a lot of
such size), and for industrial parks shall be subject to the specific review of
the planning commission. The developer(s) of such acreages shall submit a plan
for the proposed development showing metes and bounds and a plat showing
proposed usages. This plat must be accompanied by a survey by a certified land
surveyor.
   (B)   If the tract of land proposed to be developed is not appropriately
zoned for the requested use, a zoning amendment must be requested. All legal
procedures must be followed, and a map amendment duly authorized prior to the
start of the proposed development.
   (C)   In approving proposals for planned developments, the planning
commission must be satisfied that the proponents of the planned development
project(s) are financially able to carry out the proposed project(s) and that
construction will begin within one (1) year after approval of the plan.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.01), 1988)
Division 2. Planned Commercial Developments
§ 80.320 PROPOSED USE; APPROVAL OF COMMISSION
   (A)   A planned commercial development is defined as a proposal for the
utilization of an area exceeding one (1) acre in size for the construction of
building(s) and/or facilities to house two (2) or more commercial
establishments either in separate or a common structure.
   (B)   The owner(s) of the land, or the developer(s) shall be required to
submit to the planning commission for its review a preliminary plan for the use
and development of the tract of land and survey accurately describing its metes
and bounds.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the planning commission to investigate, and to
ascertain, whether the proposed location and plan comply with the following:
      (1)   That the project is at a location where traffic congestion does not
exist at present on the streets to be used for access to the proposed
commercial development, and where such congestion is not likely to be created
by the proposed development.
      (2)   That the plan provides for a project consisting of two (2) or more
establishments in a building, or in buildings of unified and harmonious design
together with adequate, and properly arranged traffic and parking facilities
and landscaping, and will have no adverse effect upon adjoining or surrounding
development.
      (3)   That the uses proposed are consistent with those permitted within
the district.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.02), 1988)
§ 80.321 REGULATIONS
   The following regulations shall apply to the planned commercial development:
   (A)   Building height. No building shall exceed two (2) stories or twenty-
five (25) feet in height.
   (B)   Tract coverage. The ground area occupied by all buildings shall not
exceed, in aggregate, fifty percent (50%) of the total area of the lot or
tract.
   (C)   Customer parking space. Notwithstanding any other requirement of this
chapter there shall be provided one (1) off-street parking space for each four
hundred (400) square feet of retail or customer service floor space.
   (D)   Loading space.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other requirement of this chapter, there shall
be provided one (1) off-street loading space for each ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of building floor space, or major fraction thereof.
      (2)   At least one-third (1/3) of the loading spaces shall be significant
in area and offer vertical clearance for the accommodation of trucks of the
tractor-trailer type.
   (E)   Signs. Signs shall be permitted as per § 82.202(D)(4).
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.021), 1988)
§ 80.322 SPECIAL CONDITIONS
   The planning commission may attach reasonable special conditions to ensure
that there will be departure from the intent of this chapter. The proposed
commercial development shall comply with all such conditions, and a final plat
shall be submitted to the planning commission for its review prior to the start
of construction.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.022), 1988)
Division 3. Planned Industrial Park
§ 80.340 PROPOSED USE; APPROVAL OF COMMISSION
   (A)   When a development is defined as a planned industrial park, it shall
be subject to the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners of land in an industrial district containing
not less than four (4) acres shall submit to the planning commission for its
review a preliminary plan for the use and development of such land as a planned
industrial park.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the commission to investigate, and to
ascertain, whether the proposed location and plan comply with the following
conditions:
      (1)   That the proposed industrial park is located where traffic
congestion does not exist at present on the streets to be utilized for access
to the proposed park and where congestion will not be likely to be created by
the development;
      (2)   That the plan provides for the industrial park consisting of one
(1) or more buildings of unified and harmonious design, together with the
required parking facilities and landscaping, and that the development will have
no adverse effect upon adjoining or nearby developments;
      (3)   That the uses permitted shall be those which are authorized for an
industrial district.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.03, 6.031), 1988)
§ 80.341 REGULATIONS
   The following regulations shall apply to a planned industrial park:
   (A)   Building heights.
   (B)   Fumes and odors. No noxious or offensive trade or activity shall be
carried on, nor shall anything be done which may be, or become, an annoyance or
nuisance by reason of unsightliness, or the excessive emission of odor, dust,
fumes, smoke or noise.
   (C)   Landscaping. The area between the building lines and the property
lines is to be used either for open landscaped and green areas or for off-
street parking. Any landscaped area shall be properly maintained in a sightly
condition. Parking areas shall also be maintained in good condition.
   (D)   Building setbacks. No building may be erected within an industrial
park nearer than one hundred (100) feet to the street right-of-way upon which
it faces, nor nearer than twenty-five (25) feet to the right-of-way of any
other existing or proposed streets nor shall any such building be erected
nearer than twenty-five (25) feet to the side or rear property lines.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.032-6.0324), 1988)
§ 80.342 GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Other provisions as set forth in Article II of this chapter dealing with
loading docks, parking, storage, signs, screening, and waste disposal, shall
apply to an industrial park.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.0325), 1988)
§ 80.343 OTHER CONDITIONS
   The planning commission may attach reasonable conditions to ensure that
there shall be no departure from the intent of this chapter. The proposed
industrial park plan shall comply with all such conditions, and a final plat
shall be submitted to the planning commission for its review and approval
before construction begins.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.0326), 1988)
Division 4. Planned Residential Developments
§ 80.360 USES; APPROVAL BY COMMISSION
   (A)   A planned residential development is a large-scale development
constructed by a single owner or a group of owners acting jointly, located on a
single tract of land, and involving a related group of residences and
associated uses, planned as an entity, and therefore constituting one (1)
complex land use unit.
   (B)   A planned residential development project plat and plan must be
presented to the planning commission for review and approval. The planned
residential development must be within substantial compliance of the city
subdivision ordinances, and shall meet all minimum requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.04), 1988)
§ 80.361 REGULATIONS
   The following regulations shall apply to a planned residential development:
   (A)   Zoning. The proposed site must be located in an area permitting
single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Plat plan. A plat shall be presented for planning commission review
which shows the following:
      (1)   Kind, location, bulk, and capacity of structures and uses;
      (2)   General floor plan of buildings;
      (3)   Location and identification of open spaces, streets, and all other
means for pedestrian and vehicular circulation; parks; recreational areas, and
other non-building sites;
      (4)   Provision for automobile parking;
      (5)   General nature and location of public and private utilities and
other community facilities and services.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.041), 1988)
§ 80.362 INTENSITY OF LAND USE
   The intensity of land use shall be no higher and the standard for open space
shall be no lower than that permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.042), 1988)
§ 80.363 ZONING RESTRICTIONS TO APPLY
   In no case shall the planning commission authorize a use prohibited in the
district in which the housing is located, or a smaller gross lot area per
family than the minimum required for such district, or a greater height, or a
larger coverage than required by this chapter.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.043), 1988)
§ 80.364 SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE PROVISIONS PREVAIL
   Planned subdivision ordinance, as previously adopted, remains and shall be
controlling where there appears in this chapter a conflict of requirements, and
minimum requirements must be met as set out in subdivision ordinance. Planned
residential development shall, at approval of the planning and zoning board,
permit a mix of single, duplex and apartment dwellings, with shopping area,
offices, professionals, intermingled with suitable buffer zones and screens.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 6 (6.044), 1988)
ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATION
§ 80.400 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by a zoning
administrator designated by the city.
   (B)   The zoning administrator shall keep accurate records in a permanent
file for the issuance of building permits, certificates of occupancy,
inspections, violations, stop orders, and condemnations. If the administrator
finds any provision of this chapter being violated, the person or persons
responsible for such violation shall be notified by the administrator through
registered mail. Such notification shall order the discontinuation of any
illegal use of land, building and/or structures.
   (C)   Appointment of the zoning administrator shall be by the Mayor, and the
zoning administrator shall serve at the will of the Mayor. Salary shall be set
by the City Council by ordinance.
   (D)   Any permit or certificate of occupancy issued in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter shall be null and void.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 7 (7.01), 1988); Amended during 1993 codification)
§ 80.401 ZONING PERMITS REQUIRED; FEES
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for, or the
construction of any building, including accessory buildings, or to commence the
building or alteration of any building, including accessory buildings, before
the zoning administrator has issued a permit for such work.
   (B)   Fees. Unless otherwise set by this chapter, the fees to be charged for
building permits shall be set by the City Council with the advice of the zoning
administrator and the planning commission.
   (C)   Exceptions. No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be
required in the following cases:
      (1)   Recurring maintenance;
      (2)   Installation of required improvements in accordance with an
approved plan.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 7 (7.02-7.023), 1988; Am. Ord. passed - -22)
§ 80.402 ZONING PERMITS; PROCEDURE; PROVISIONS
   (A)   Applications. In applying to the zoning administrator for a zoning
permit, the applicant shall submit a plan along with the application. This plan
must be drawn to scale, showing the dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the
outside dimensions of all structures to be constructed or altered and all
existing structures. The use of structures and the proposed yard depths should
be detailed, and any other information pertinent to the assessment of
conformance should be included. The city or county health officer's certificate
approving the water and sewage facilities must accompany the application.
   (B)   Issuance.
      (1)   If the proposed construction or alteration conforms with all
applicable ordinances, regulations, and codes, the zoning administrator shall
issue a zoning permit authorizing construction or alteration.
      (2)   If the proposed construction or alteration fails to conform, the
zoning administrator shall refuse to issue a zoning permit, and shall cause
delivery of written notice to the applicant stating the reason for refusal.
      (3)   The zoning administrator shall act upon all applications for zoning
permits within two (2) weeks from the date of their submission.
   (C)   Restraint of construction without permit. If no zoning permit has been
issued, and a builder begins, or continues to build, a restraining order may be
obtained upon application to the appropriate court, and evidence of the lack of
a zoning permit shall establish a prima facie case for the issuance of the
restraining order.
   (D)   Validity. The issuance of a zoning permit shall not waive any
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Duration. A zoning permit shall become void one (1) year from the date
of issuance unless substantial progress has been made by that date on the
construction or alteration authorized therein.
(Ord. 88-1 Art. 7 (7.024), 1988; Am. Ord. passed - -16)
§ 80.403 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
   No land or building or part thereof thereafter erected or altered shall be
used until the zoning administrator shall have issued a certificate of
occupancy stating that such land, building, or part thereof and the proposed
use thereof, are found to be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
Within three (3) days after notification that a building or premises, or part
thereof, is ready for occupancy or use it shall be the duty of the zoning
administrator to make a final inspection thereof and to issue a certificate of
occupancy if the land, building, or part thereof, are found to conform with the
provisions of this chapter, or if such certification is refused, to state in
writing the cause for such refusal, and to immediately thereon mail notice of
such refusal to the applicant at the address indicated on the application.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 7 (7.025), 1988)
§ 80.404 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
   There shall exist a board of adjustment with the duties and responsibilities
of such boards as set forth in KRS 100.217-261 as amended.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   Hear and decide administrative appeals where it is alleged by the
appellants that there is an error in any order, requirement, permit, decision,
determination or refusal made by any administrative official carrying out or
enforcing any provision of this zoning ordinance;
      (2)   To make interpretations of the official zoning map;
      (3)   To make final action on conditional uses;
      (4)   To take final action on variances; and
      (5)   Administer the non-conforming use regulations per KRS 100.253.
   (B)   Membership. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five (5) citizen
members. The Mayor of the city shall point the members to the Board of
Adjustment subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Terms of officer. The terms of office shall be four (4) years ending
on June 30 of the designated year. The Board of Adjustment shall otherwise be
organized and operated in accordance with KRS 100.217.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 7 (7.026), 1988; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 3-30-15)
§ 80.405 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE; APPEALS
   Appeals from the decisions of the planning commission and/or the board of
adjustment may be taken to the circuit court of Butler County within thirty
(30) days after final action of the bodies in accordance with KRS 100.347, as
amended.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 7 (7.03), 1988)
§ 80.406 PLANNING COMMISSION
   There shall exist a Planning Commission with the duties and responsibilities
of such boards as set forth in KRS Chapter 100 as amended.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   The Commission shall have general powers necessary to carry out its
functions in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   The Commission shall adopt and approve its by-laws. The by-laws
shall set forth the procedures, rules and regulations necessary for the
Commission to conduct its business. The by-laws shall describe the method for
administration of funds.
   (B)   Membership. The Planning Commission shall consists of five (5) citizen
members. The Mayor of the city shall appoint the members to the Planning
Commission subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   Terms of office. The terms of office shall be four (4) years ending of
June 30 of the designated year. The Planning Commission shall otherwise be
organized and operated in accordance with KRS 100.217.
   (D)   Salary. The Planning Commission shall receive a monthly salary as set
by the City Council and changed at their discretion.
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 3-30-15)
§ 80.407 VIOLATIONS
   In any case where a zoning permit is required and found to be in violation
of any of the terms of this chapter the enforcement or zoning administrator
shall notify by registered mail or written notice served personally to the
owner to comply with this chapter and to secure the required permit. If such an
order is not complied with within ten (10) days, it may result in and up to a
one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine per violation and shall be punishable under
this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 3-30-15)
§ 80.408 CONDEMNATION
   (A)   In the event any building or real estate is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, converted, maintained, or any building, structure, or
land is used in violation of this chapter, specifically, but not limited to,
certain provisions of this chapter, or any city ordinance pertaining to land
use, the zoning administrator, the planning commission, or any legislative
body, or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who can demonstrate damage
as a result of such violation, in addition to other remedies, may institute an
action in the Butler Circuit Court which seeks injunction, mandamus, or other
appropriate legal action, to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure
or land or to seek abatement, or demolition of any use or structure upon the
premises which constitutes a danger to the health, safety, and general welfare
of the adjacent property owners, or the community in general.
   (B)   In the event the zoning administrator or the planning commission shall
undertake any expense, contract for labor, or supply materials necessary for
the enforcement of this chapter, the reasonable expense of such an undertaking
to constitute a lien against the subject real estate and the zoning
administrator is hereby authorized to file in the property records of the
Butler County Court a statement of its lien for expenses incurred in the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   The lien enumerated herein may be enforced by foreclosure action filed
in the Butler County Circuit Court against the property owner and all others
possessing an interest in the subject real estate.
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 3-30-15)
ARTICLE VI. ZONING AMENDMENTS
§ 80.500 ZONING AMENDMENTS; PROCEDURE
   (A)   A proposal for amendment of this chapter shall be referred to the
planning commission before adoption. The commission shall review the proposal,
and shall, within sixty (60) days from the date of its receipt, advise the City
Council as to whether it approves or disapproves of the proposed change; and if
it disapproves, state the reason for its disapproval. Before the planning
commission makes its recommendation to the City Council, the commission shall
hold at least one (1) public hearing after notice as required by KRS 424. A
majority of the elected membership of the City Council shall be required to
override the planning commission in its disapproval.
   (B)   A proposal for amendment of the zoning map of the city shall include a
metes and bounds description of the same property to be rezoned, along with a
plat on the same scale as the "Zoning Map - Morgantown, Kentucky" located in
the office of the zoning administrator.
   (C)   Before any map amendment is granted, the planning commission and the
City Council must find that the map amendment is in agreement with the
community's comprehensive plan, or, in the absence of such a finding, that one
(1) or more of the following apply, and such finding shall be recorded in the
minutes and records of the planning commission and the City Council:
      (1)   That the original zoning classification given to the property was
inappropriate or improper;
      (2)   That there have been major changes of an economic, physical or
social nature within the area involved which were not anticipated in the
community comprehensive plan and which have substantially altered the basic
character of such neighborhood.
(Ord. 88-12 Art. 8, 1988)
ARTICLE VII. GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR SOBER LIVING FACILITIES
Division 1. Reasonable Accommodation in Land Use and Zoning Regulation
§ 80.600 DEFINITIONS
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms are defined as
follows:
   “FAIR HOUSING LAWS.” The Federal Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988 (FHA)
and the provisions of KRS 344.600 et seq., may be amended from time to time
(fair housing laws).
   “GROUP HOME.” A residential facility for the care of six (6) or less
unrelated individuals living in a single housekeeping unit and recognized as
handicapped individuals under the Fair Housing Act and American with
Disabilities Act. A sober living facility shall be considered as a “GROUP HOME”
for all purposes consistent herewith.
   “HANDICAPPED.” Person with disabilities: For the purpose herein, has the
meaning set forth in the federal Fair Housing Act and the American with
Disabilities Act and is an individual who has a physical or mental impairment
that limits one or more of the major life activities of such individual, is
regarded as having such impairment, or has a record of such impairment. While a
person recovering from substance abuse may be considered a person with a
disability under 42 U.S.C. § 3602(h) a person who is currently engaged in
illegal use of a controlled substance is not.
   “OPERATOR.” An individual or business entity, whether for profit or non-
profit, which provides residential services at a group home.
   “REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION.” The act of making a dwelling unit or housing
facility(ies) readily accessible to and usable by a person with disabilities,
through the removal of constraints in the city's land use, zoning, permit and
processing procedures. All accommodation may not be reasonable, and the
reasonableness of a request will be determined by the city.
   “SOBER LIVING FACILITY.” A single-family dwelling unit used by individuals
recovering from a drug and/or alcohol addiction, considered as a handicapped
individual under state or federal law. A “SOBER LIVING FACILITY” shall not
provide on-site supportive outpatient services to residents, including the
following: mental health services; clinical rehabilitation services; social
services; medical, dental, nutritional or other health care services; financial
management services; legal services; vocational services; and other similar
supportive services.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.601 PURPOSE
   (A)   Fair housing laws impose an affirmative duty on local governments to
make reasonable accommodation in their land use and zoning regulations and
practices when such accommodation may be necessary to afford handicapped
individuals an equal opportunity to housing in accordance therewith.
   (B)   In furtherance of the purposes of the fair housing laws, this article
is intended to: preserve the residential character of single family residential
neighborhoods; ensure that group homes, including sober living facilities, are
actually entitled to reasonable accommodation; limit the secondary impacts of
group homes including sober living facilities by reducing noise and traffic;
preserve safety and provide adequate on-street parking; provide an
accommodation for handicapped individuals that is reasonable and actually bears
some resemblance to the opportunities afforded non-handicapped individuals to
use and enjoy a dwelling in a residential neighborhood; and, to provide a
living environment that will enhance the opportunity for the handicapped to be
successful in their programs. Pursuant to fair housing laws, this article is
also created to provide handicapped individuals reasonable accommodation in
rules, policies, practices, and procedures to ensure equal access to housing
and facilitate the development of housing for individuals with such recognized
handicaps when the same may act as a barrier to fair housing opportunities.
   (C)   There is hereby established a procedure for making requests for
reasonable accommodation in land use and zoning regulations, policies,
practices, and procedures to comply fully with the intent and purpose of fair
housing laws. Unless a group home has been granted five (5) reasonable
accommodations as provided in this article, group homes shall comply with
zoning regulations, policies, practices, and procedures applicable to the zone
in which they are located.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.602 APPLICABILITY
   Reasonable accommodation within the context of the land use and zoning
regulations means providing individuals with recognized handicaps flexibility
in the application of land use and zoning regulations, policies, practices and
procedures, or even waiving certain requirements, when it is necessary to
eliminate barriers to housing opportunities.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.603 NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC OF AVAILABILITY OF ACCOMMODATING PROCESS
   Notice of the availability of reasonable accommodation shall be prominently
displayed and provided to requesting individuals, advising the public of the
availability of the procedure for eligible applicants.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.604 APPLICATION FOR REQUESTING REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION
   (A)   Forms requesting reasonable accommodation shall be available in the
Code Enforcement Department.
   (B)   An application for reasonable accommodation may be made by any
handicapped individual or his or her representative; the owner of the real
property intended for use as a group home for handicapped individuals; or, the
owner/operator of an entity providing residential services at the location.
   (C)   Requests for reasonable accommodation shall be in writing and provide
the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant requesting
reasonable accommodation.
      (2)   Name, address, and phone number of the house manager who is
responsible for the day-to-day operation of the facility, if any.
      (3)   Address of the property for which accommodation is requested.
      (4)   Name, address, and phone number of the property owner(s) if not the
applicant.
      (5)   If the operator is not the property owner, then a copy of any lease
agreement between applicant and owner must be provided as well as written
approval from the property owner to operate a group home at the property
location.
      (6)   Detailed description of the requested accommodation with reference
to any known regulation, policy or procedure from which relief is sought.
      (7)   Reason that the requested accommodation may be necessary for the
handicapped individual(s) to use the dwelling.
      (8)   Copy of the group home rules and regulations including intake
procedures and relapse policy.
      (9)   Blank copy of all forms that residents or potential residents are
required to complete.
      (10)   An affirmation by the applicant or owner/operator that only
handicapped residents shall reside at the group home.
      (11)   Copy of any agreement between applicant or owner/operator and the
property owner setting forth or concerning any fee arrangement or financial
reimbursement applicable to each resident of the group home.
   (D)   The applicant or owner/operator shall be responsible for filing with
the city within thirty (30) days, any updates or changes to policies,
procedures, ownership, or operating entity.
   (E)   Any information obtained shall be considered confidential, shall be
retained in a manner so as to respect the privacy rights of the applicant, and
shall not be made available for public inspection unless otherwise required by
law.
   (F)   A request for reasonable accommodation to the regulations, policies,
practices, and procedures may be filed at any time that the accommodation may
be necessary to ensure equal access to housing. Reasonable accommodation shall
not affect an individual's obligations to comply with other applicable
regulations not at issue in the requested accommodation.
   (G)   If an applicant needs assistance in making the request for reasonable
accommodation, it shall be provided to ensure that the process is properly
undertaken.
   (H)   An applicant may seek relief from the strict application of the
provisions of this article by submitting such request in writing to the Code
Enforcement Director (hereafter “Director”) setting forth specific reasons as
to why accommodation over and above the provisions set forth herein is
necessary.
   (I)   No application fee shall be charged.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.605 GROUNDS FOR REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION
   The Director shall consider in determining whether to grant a reasonable
accommodation the totality of the following factors:
   (A)   That the property will be used by an individual with a recognized
handicap protected under the fair housing laws.
   (B)   Special needs created by the recognized handicap.
   (C)   Potential benefit that can be accomplished by the requested
modification.
   (D)   Potential impact on properties within the vicinity.
   (E)   Physical attributes of the property and dwelling structure.
   (F)   Alternate accommodation that may provide an equivalent level of
benefit.
   (G)   Whether the requested accommodation would impose an undue financial or
administrative burden on the city.
   (H)   Whether the requested accommodation would require a fundamental
alteration in the nature of a city function or service.
   (I)   Whether granting the request would be consistent with the city's
comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.606 DISTANCE REQUIREMENT
   No group home shall be located within six hundred and fifty (650) feet, as
measured from the closest property lines, of any other group home.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.607 INSURANCE AND MORTGAGE NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT
   (A)   The owner or operator of any group home shall be required to maintain
and provide proof to the city of liability insurance coverage in the amount of
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000), per person and one million dollars
($1,000,000), per occurrence, for personal injury to persons or property
damage.
   (B)   The owner or operator shall be required to provide proof to the city
that any mortgage lien holder on the subject property has been notified of the
use of the premises as a group home.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.608 REVIEWING AUTHORITY
   (A)   Upon proper application made, requests for reasonable accommodation
shall be reviewed by the director of code enforcement and the planning and
zoning commission using the criteria set forth) herein.
   (B)   The zoning commission and director shall issue a written decision on a
request for reasonable accommodation within thirty (30) days of the date of the
application and may either grant, grant with modifications, or deny a request
for reasonable accommodation in accordance with the required findings set forth
below.
   (C)   If necessary to reach a determination on the request for reasonable
accommodation, the director may request further information from the applicant
consistent with fair housing laws, specifying in detail the information that is
required. In the event that a request for additional information is made, the
thirty (30) day period to issue a decision shall be stayed until the applicant
responds to the request.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.609 REQUIRED FINDINGS
   The written decision to grant, grant with modifications, or deny a request
for reasonable accommodation shall be consistent with fair housing laws and
based on the following factors.
   (A)   Whether the housing, which is the subject of the request for
reasonable accommodation, will be used by an individual with a recognized
handicap as defined herein and protected under fair housing laws.
   (B)   Whether the requested accommodation is necessary to make housing
available to an individual with a recognized handicap protected under the fair
housing laws.
   (C)   Whether the requested accommodation would impose an undue financial or
administrative burden on the city.
   (D)   Whether the requested accommodation would require a fundamental
alteration in the nature of the city’s land use or zoning regulations, codes or
related programs.
   (E)   The requested accommodation will not result in a direct threat to the
health, safety or welfare of other individuals or cause physical damage to the
property of others.
   (F)   Whether the requested accommodation is necessary to make facilities of
a similar nature economically viable in light of the particularities of the
relevant market and market participants.
   (G)   Whether the existing supply of facilities of a similar nature and
operation in the community is already sufficient to provide individuals with a
recognized handicap an equal opportunity to live in a residential setting.
   (H)   The city shall consider the following factors upon any request for
accommodation:
      (1)   Whether the requested accommodation would fundamentally alter the
character of the neighborhood.
      (2)   Whether the requested accommodation would result in a substantial
increase in traffic or insufficient parking.
      (3)   Whether granting the requested accommodation would substantially
undermine any express purpose of the city’s comprehensive plan.
      (4)   Whether the requested accommodation would create an
institutionalized environment due to the number of and distance between
facilities that are similar in nature or operation.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.610 WRITTEN DECISION ON THE REQUEST FOR REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION
   (A)   The zoning commission and director shall render a written decision on
the request for reasonable accommodation within thirty (30) days of receipt.
The written decision on the request for reasonable accommodation shall explain
in detail the basis of the decision, including the director's findings on the
criteria set forth herein. The written decision shall give notice of the
applicant's right to appeal and to request reasonable accommodation in the
appeals process as set forth below. The notice of decision shall be sent to the
applicant by certified mail.
   (B)   The written decision of the zoning commission and director shall be
deemed final unless an applicant appeals the decision to the Board of
Adjustment within the prescribed time period.
   (C)   In the event the zoning commission and or director fails to render a
written decision within the prescribed period of time, the request shall be
advanced to the City Council for final determination, who shall make such
written determination within ten (10) days thereof. In the event that a written
determination is not issued within forty (40) days of the request it shall
automatically be deemed as granted.
   (D)   While a request for reasonable accommodation is pending, all laws and
regulations otherwise applicable to the property that is the subject of the
request shall remain in full force and effect.
   (E)   The director shall be required to maintain records of requests for
reasonable accommodation or modification and the response thereto, including
final written decisions.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.611 APPEALS
   (A)   Within thirty (30) days of the date of the commission and director's
written decision, an applicant may appeal an adverse decision. Appeals from the
adverse decision shall be made in writing to the board of adjustment within the
prescribed period of time.
   (B)   If an applicant needs assistance in filing an appeal against an
adverse decision,.the city will aid ensure that the appeals process is properly
undertaken.
   (C)   All appeals shall contain a statement of the grounds for the appeal.
   (D)   Nothing in this procedure shall preclude an aggrieved individual from
seeking any other state or federal remedy available.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.612 SEVERABILITY
   It is hereby declared that sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and
phrases of this article are severable and, if any phrase, clause, sentence,
paragraph, or section shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid by the
valid judgement or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction such
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this article, since
the same would have been enacted by the City Council without the incorporation
of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
§ 80.613 NONCONFORMING EXISTING SOBER HOMES, TRANSITIONAL HOUSES, OR RECOVERY
RESIDENCES
   The lawful use of a sober home, sober house, or recovery residence by the
owner of record, existing prior to or at the time of passage of this chapter
may be continued, although such use may not conform to the provisions of this
article. The continuance of a nonconforming sober home shall be subject to the
nonconforming provision of this chapter, with the exception that a
nonconforming sober home does not present a health or safety hazard, meets
state and federal standards, and may not be enlarged or expanded unless such
enlargement or expansion shall meet the regulations set forth in this article.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 10-12-23)
TABLES OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   
TABLE 1   SUPERSEDED OR REPEALED ORDINANCES
   
TABLE 2   BONDS
   
TABLE 3   FRANCHISES
   
TABLE 4   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
   
TABLE 5   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
   
TABLE 6   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
TABLE 7   TAXATION
   
TABLE 8   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE 1: SUPERSEDED OR REPEALED ORDINANCES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have been superseded or
repealed by ordinance or superseded by changes in the Kentucky Revised
Statutes:
Ord. No. Date Subject Reason/Ord. No.
Ord.                                                                           Reason/
No.   Date Subject                                                             Ord.
                                                                               No.
      4-
- -   26-  Dogs                                                                92-07
      1897
      12-                                                                      on 8-9-
- -   9-   License to sell pork                                                1898
      1897
      12-
- -   11-  Fireworks                                                           92-07
      1897
      12-
- -   20-  Pork sales                                                          92-07
      1897
      1-
- -   13-  Horse trading                                                       92-07
      1898
      1-
- -   13-  Board of trustees regular meeting                                   92-07
      1898
      1-
- -   20-  Town marshal                                                        92-07
      1898
      5-   Amends § 9 of previous amendment, relating to building of privy or
- -   19-  cesspool                                                            92-07
      1898
- -   6-9- Litter                                                              92-07
      1898
      7-
- -   18-  Horses and mules                                                    92-07
      1898
- -   9-8- Hogs at large                                                       92-07
      1898
      10-
- -   13-  Hogs at large                                                       92-07
      1898
      1-
- -   14-  Regulates use of stoves                                             92-07
      1899
      5-
- -   15-  Vaccinations                                                        92-07
      1899
- -   2-8- Nuisances                                                           92-07
      1900
- -   2-8- Discharging firearms                                                92-07
      1900
- -   2-8- Unhealthful privy                                                   92-07
      1900
- -   5- - Cows at large                                                       92-07
      1900
      2-
- -   19-  License for auction                                                 92-07
      1901
      2-
- -   20-  Dogs at large                                                       92-07
      1904
- -   7-6- Ball playing in streets and alleys                                  92-07
      1904
- -   - -  License tax for tobacco sales                                       92-07
      1904
      12-
- -   5-   Board of trustees regular meeting                                   92-07
      1904
      12-
- -   5-   Drunk and disorderly conduct                                        92-07
      1904
      12-
- -   5-   Building standards                                                  92-07
      1904
      12-
- -   5-   Dogs                                                                92-07
      1904
      4-
- -   10-  Insurance company license taxes                                     92-07
      1906
- -   6-7- License for traveling shows                                         92-07
      1906
      7-
- -   23-  Circuses                                                            92-07
      1906
- -   7- - License to sell fresh meat                                          on 4-
      1906                                                                     29-1908
      12-
- -   6-   Air guns and sling shots prohibited                                 92-07
      1906
      1-
- -   14-  Curfew                                                              92-07
      1908
      1-
- -   14-  Cows at large                                                       92-07
      1908
      4-
- -   29-  Sets hours for butcher shops                                        92-07
      1908
      4-
- -   29-  Removing fire station equipment                                     92-07
      1908
      4-
- -   29-  Sunday hours for barbershops                                        92-07
      1908
      4-
- -   29-  Sunday closing for businesses                                       92-07
      1908
      11-
- -   11-  Traffic                                                             92-07
      1908
- -   1-7- Litter                                                              92-07
      1909
      5-
- -   11-  Liquor license                                                      92-07
      1909
      5-                                                                       on 9-7-
- -   11-  Liquor license                                                      1909
      1909
- -   5-3- Playing ball or marbles on streets                                  92-07
      1910
- -   5-3- License for public auctions                                         92-07
      1910
- -   5-3- Horses, etc., at large                                              92-07
      1910
      7-
- -   12-  Stock running at large on streets and alleys                        92-07
      1912
- -   7-1- Dogs                                                                92-07
      1913
- -   1-6- Duties of town marshal and secretary                                92-07
      1914
- -   1-6- Discharging firearms                                                92-07
      1914
- -   1-6- Carrying concealed weapons                                          92-07
      1914
- -   1-6- Prohibiting alcohol sales                                           92-07
      1914
- -   1-6- Preservation of shade trees and utility poles                       92-07
      1914
- -   1-6- Firearms                                                            92-07
      1914
- -   1-6- Adultery and fornication                                            92-07
      1914
- -   4- - Speed limit of autos                                                92-07
      1914
- -   5- - Inspection of meat                                                  92-07
      1914
- -   1-1- Meat inspection                                                     92-07
      1916
      12-
- -   8-   License for moving pictures                                         92-07
      1916
      12-
- -   8-   Sunday closing for businesses                                       92-07
      1916
- -   1- - Sunday closing for businesses                                       92-07
      1917
- -   1-7- Snow on sidewalks                                                   92-07
      1918
- -   5-6- Traffic rules                                                       92-07
      1918
- -   4-9- Dogs; rabies quarantine                                             92-07
      1919
- -   2- - Ditches in streets                                                  92-07
      1920
      3-
- -   20-  Fire zone                                                           92-07
      1922
- -   6-5- Fire prevention rules                                               92-07
      1922
- -   3-5- Billiards license                                                   92-07
      1923
- -   8-6- Vehicle regulations                                                 92-07
      1923
      11-
- -   5-   Liquor prohibition                                                  92-07
      1923
- -   7-7- Amends Ord. dated 4-10-1906, insurance company license taxes        92-07
      1924
      7-
- -   21-  License tax for tobacco sales                                       92-07
      1924
- -   8-4- Meat inspection                                                     92-07
      1924
- -   1-7- Tobacco license                                                     92-07
      1929
- -   1-7- Intoxication                                                        92-07
      1929
      1-
- -   27-  Disturbing a public assembly                                        92-07
      1929
- -   3-7- Hog keeping                                                         92-07
      1932
- -   3-5- License on gaming, billiards                                        92-07
      1934
- -   5-7- Disorderly conduct                                                  on 4-1-
      1934                                                                     1946
      3-
- -   20-  Liquor license, sale, regulations                                   92-07
      1935
- -   7-1- Adds section regulating beer sales to Ord. dated 3-20-1935, liquor  92-07
      1935 license, sale, regulations
- -   3-2- Business license taxes                                              92-07
      1936
- -   8-2- Parking                                                             92-07
      1937
- -   8-2- Dogs; rabies                                                        92-07
      1937
      12-
- -   6-   Vagrancy                                                            92-07
      1937
- -   8-1- Occupation or profession tax                                        92-07
      1938
- -   8-5- Parking                                                             92-07
      1940
- -   1-5- Litter                                                              92-07
      1942
- -   7-7- Public assembly                                                     92-07
      1942
- -   1-4- Liquor prohibition                                                  92-07
      1943
      10-
- -   4-   Exempts veterans poll tax                                           92-07
      1943
- -   4-3- Revises tax and revenue laws                                        92-07
      1944
- -   7-3- Parking                                                             92-07
      1944
- -   8-7- Peddler's license                                                   92-07
      1944
- -   2-4- Establishes fire zone                                               92-07
      1945
- -   5-7- Creates position of street surveyor and his/her assistant           92-07
      1945
- -   7-2- Loitering                                                           92-07
      1945
      10-
- -   1-   Modifies fire zone                                                  92-07
      1945
- -   4-1- Speed limit                                                         92-07
      1946
- -   4-1- Repeals and replaces Ord. dated 5-7-1934, disorderly conduct        92-07
      1946
- -   4-7- Noise                                                               92-07
      1947
- -   4-7- Driver's license                                                    92-07
      1947
- -   5-5- Cross-connections; sewer                                            92-07
      1947
- -   5-5- Toilets, sewers                                                     92-07
      1947
- -   8-7- License for traveling shows                                         92-07
      1947
- -   4-6- Parking                                                             92-07
      1948
- -   4-6- Sales of milk                                                       92-07
      1948
- -   6-1- License for traveling shows                                         92-07
      1948
- -   8-3- License fees on coin-operated machines                              92-07
      1948
      11-
- -   12-  Truck stand license fees                                            92-07
      1948
- -   6-6- Business and occupations taxes                                      92-07
      1949
- -   6-6- Truck stand license fees                                            92-07
      1949
50-1  - -  Weed control                                                        55-4
50-2  - -  Parking meters                                                      87-08
50-3  - -  Parking                                                             87-9
51-1  - -  Sewer rates                                                         92-07
52-2  - -  Building and zoning; fire zone                                      92-07
52-3  - -  Discharging firearms                                                87-08
54-1  - -  Amends Ord. dated 6-6-1949, building and zoning                     92-07
54-3  - -  Regulates rubbish heaps, prohibits burning                          87-08
54-4  - -  Public address systems, noise                                       87-08
54-7  - -  License fees for traveling shows                                    92-07
54-13 - -  Water rates                                                         92-07
55-2  - -  Milk inspection and sales                                           92-07
55-3  - -  Water and sewer lines                                               92-07
55-4  - -  Repeals and replaces Ord. 50-1, weed control                        87-08
56-1  - -  Amends Ord. dated 6-6-1949, building and zoning                     92-07
56-2  - -  Tax on vehicle licenses                                             92-07
- -   2-2- Parking meters                                                      92-07
      1956
      2-
- -   23-  Amends Ord. 50-2, parking meters                                    87-08
      1956
56-3  - -  Parking                                                             87-09
56-4  - -  Creates post of fire chief                                          92-07
56-5  - -  Stop signs                                                          92-07
56-7  - -  House numbers                                                       92-07
57-1  - -  Salary of Mayor, council members                                    92-07
58-2  - -  License tax on carpenters et al                                     92-07
58-3  - -  License tax on insurance companies                                  92-07
58-4  - -  Street maintenance                                                  2016-04
- -   5-7- Permit for constructing driveways                                   92-07
      1959
59-1  - -  Repeals, amends and re-enacts Ord. dated 6-6-1949, building and     92-07
           zoning
60-1  - -  Jukeboxes                                                           87-08
60-2  - -  Truck unloading license fee                                         87-10
60-3  - -  Places city on Central Daylight Savings Time                        87-08
60-4  - -  Adopts 1955 edition of the Standards of Safety of the Commonwealth  92-07
           of Kentucky
60-5  - -  Creates city planning and zoning commission                         92-07
61-1  - -  Places city on Central Daylight Savings Time                        87-08
61-2  - -                                                                     87-08
61-3  - -  Regulates and licenses truck stands                                 87-10
      7-   Health department standards for restaurants and food service
- -   13-  businesses                                                          92-07
      1961
      12-
- -   7-   Adoption of plumbing code                                           92-07
      1961
62-1  - -  Salaries of mayor, council members, police judge                    92-07
62-2  - -  Sewer rates, regulations                                            92-07
62-3  - -  No parking in alleys                                                92-07
62-4  - -  Overnight and long-term parking                                     87-09
62-5  - -  Check valves for hot water electric heaters                         92-07
62-6  - -  Car wash plumbing                                                   92-07
62-7  - -  Establishment of civil defense unit                                 87-08
63-3  - -  Amends ordinance entitled "an ordinance levying a license tax on    92-07
           vehicles in the city of Morgantown, Kentucky"
63-5  - -  Creates Municipal Planning Commission                               92-07
63-9  - -  Gas rates, regulations                                              92-07
64-4  - -  Regulates construction, maintenance of gas fixtures                 92-07
64-6  - -  Parking revenues designated as general funds monies                 87-09
65-1  - -  Salary, bond amount for city clerk/city treasurer                   92-07
65-6  - -  Business and professions license fee                                87-10
65-7  - -  Dance hall license fee                                              87-10
65-8  - -  Cigarette sale license fee                                          87-10
65-9  - -  Cigarette machine license fee                                       87-10
65-10 - -  Traveling show license fee                                          87-10
65-11 - -  Coin-operated machine license fee                                   87-10
65-12 - -  Pool room license fee                                               87-10
65-13 - -  Gas rates                                                           92-07
65-15 - -  Parking                                                             87-09
67-1  - -  Creates Housing and Unsafe Building Code                            92-07
67-3  - -  Fire zone                                                           92-07
           Adopts National Building Code (1967 Edition), National Electrical
67-4  - -  Code (1965 Edition), Kentucky State Plumbing Law, Regulations and   92-07
           Code (1967 Edition), Housing and Unsafe Building Code (1966
           Edition) and Standards of Safety
67-5  - -  Creates Morgantown planning commission                              92-07
67-7  - -  Water and sewer rates                                               92-07
68-1  - -  Registration, licensing, regulation of motor vehicles               92-07
69-1  - -  License for professions                                             87-10
69-2  - -  Salaries for Mayor and judge                                        92-07
70-4  - -  License for businesses and professions                              87-10
71-1  - -  Gas rates                                                           92-07
71-3  - -                                                                     87-09
72-1  - -  Police authority to enter certain property                          92-10
72-2  - -  Operation of police court                                           87-08
- -   1-4- Amends Ord. 65-15, parking                                          87-09
      1973
73-1  - -  Drug use                                                            92-07
73-3  - -  Compensation of city officials                                      92-07
73-6  - -  Salary, training for police officers                                92-07
73-7  - -  Court costs assigned                                                87-08
74-2  - -  Gas rates                                                           92-07
74-3  - -  Police officers                                                     92-07
74-4  - -  Gas rates                                                           92-07
74-5  - -  Gas rates                                                           92-07
76-3  - -  Gas rates                                                           92-07
77-1  - -  Gas rates                                                           92-07
77-3  - -  Parking                                                             87-09
79-2  - -  Compensation for city officials                                     92-07
79-3  - -  Fair housing practices                                              92-07
81-9  - -  Building permit fees                                                92-07
82-4  - -  License tax on all businesses and professions                       87-10
83-4  - -  Creates city maintenance department, post of city maintenance       92-07
           supervisor, salary for same
84-3  - -  Amends Ord. 84-1, salary for city clerk                             92-07
84-4  - -  Amends Ord. 83-4, salary for city maintenance supervisor            92-07
84-5  - -  Sewer and storm drain pollution                                     90-06
84-8  - -  Grievance procedures for discrimination cases                       92-07
85-1  - -  License fee on insurance companies                                  2016-01
85-3  - -  License fee on insurance companies                                  2016-01
85-7  - -  Amends Ord. 84-1, salary for city clerk                             92-07
85-11 - -  Regulations and permits for street dances                           92-07
86-1  - -  Amends Ord. 70-4, license on businesses and professions             87-10
86-6  - -  Amends Ord. 83-4, salary for city maintenance supervisor            92-07
86-7  - -  Amends Ord. 84-1, salary for city clerk                             92-07
86-8  - -  Salary for Mayor                                                    92-07
87-04 - -  Amends Ord. 83-4, salary for city maintenance supervisor            92-07
87-07 - -  Sewer and storm drain pollution                                     90-06
87-10 - -  Chapter 60: Occupational license taxes                              2008-05
87-13 - -  Planning and zoning permits and fees                                92-07
90-06 - -  Sewer use                                                           92-07
95-04 6-9- Relating to noise pollution and providing for a sound level meter   2007-05
      94
99-01 4-8- Tourism Commission                                                  2019-04
      99
2000- 4-
02    13-  Sewer use                                                           2014-01
      00
2005- --   Chapter 60: Occupational license taxes - 60.003, 60.005, 60.010,    2008-05
03         60.020
2015- 3-
03    30-  Compensation for Chief of Police                                    2015-14
      15
2015- 3-
05    30-  Compensation for the City Clerk/Treasurer                           2015-12
      15
2015- 7-9- Personnel policy                                                    2016-10
11    15
2015- 9-4- Compensation for Chief of Police                                    2016-07
14    15
2016- 12-  Personnel policy                                                    2020-01
10    8-16
                                                                             
 
TABLE 2: BONDS
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject bonds
authorized or issued by the city:
Ord. No Date Subject
Ord. No Date     Subject
96-01   4-24-96  Issuing solid waste disposal facilities revenue bonds, Series
                 1996 (IMCO Recycling Inc. Project).
                 Issuing health facilities revenue refunding bonds, Series
96-02   6-26-96  1996A and Taxable Series 1996B (Southern Healthcare Systems,
                 Inc. Project).
96-05   8-15-96  Authorizing and approving first mortgage revenue bonds of the
                 Morgantown Recreational Facilities Corporation.
97-01   4-11-97  Issuing solid waste disposal facilities revenue bonds, Series
                 1997 (IMCO Recycling Inc. Project).
98-02   6-12-98  Issuing solid waste disposal facilities revenue bonds, Series
                 1998 (IMCO Recycling Inc. Project).
2004-06 9-16-04  Issuing solid waste disposal facilities revenue bonds, Series
                 2004 (IMCO Recycling Inc. Project).
2020-06 11-24-20 Approving a lease agreement with the Kentucky Bond Corporation
                 to finance a project using property for public purposes.
                
 
TABLE 3: FRANCHISES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) relate to franchises
authorized and granted by the city:
 
Ord. No Date    Subject
95-05   9-14-95 Granting renewal of a franchise agreement to Tele-Media Company
                of Southwest Kentucky to provide cable television.
05-04   6-29-05 Granting a nonexclusive franchise agreement to Mediacom
                Southeast LLC to construct and operate a cable system.
 
TABLE 4: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject
contracts and agreements executed by the city.
 
Ord. No Date   Subject
               Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-insurance,
93-06   6-3-93 insurance and the investment of public funds and authorizing the
               execution of an interlocal cooperation agreement to establish
               the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association.
               Authorizing an inter-local cooperative agreement with Butler
               County for the purposes of securing joint financing through the
2009-03 7-9-09 Tennessee Valley Authority to be used for the renovation and
               remodeling of an industrial building owned or under the control
               of the city.
 
TABLE 5: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject
employment matters as enacted by the city:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No. Date     Subject
96-08    12-11-96 Amending employment manual to reflect the minimum wage
                  increase effective October 1, 1996.
97-07    1-8-98   Amending employment manual to reflect the minimum wage
                  increase effective October 1, 1997.
2000-08  11-13-00 Implementing a three percent (3%) annual incentive for city
                  employees.
2003-02  4-14-03  Setting the salary for the Zoning Administrator.
2004-03  4-12-04  Amending the classification plan, compensation plan, and
                  policies and procedures.
2005-02  3-15-05  Amending the compensation for the City Clerk/Treasurer.
2014-04  4-24-14  Amending the compensation for the Mayor.
2014-05  4-24-14  Amending the compensation for the City Council members.
2015-04  3-30-15  Amending the compensation for the City Maintenance
                  Supervisor.
2016-06  8-11-16  Amending the compensation for the City Administrative
                  Officer/City Clerk.
2016-07  8-11-16  Amending the compensation for the Chief of Police.
2016-11  12-8-16  Amending the compensation for the City Administrative
                  Officer/City Clerk.
2017-06  7-13-17  Amending the compensation for the Chief of Police.
2020-01  2-13-20  Amending the personnel policy of the city.
                 
 
TABLE 6: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject streets
and sidewalk matters as enacted by the city:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No. Date     Subject
                  Abandoning an alleyway on the northeast side of Logan Street
96-04    6-13-96  (now G.L. Smith Street) being Kentucky Highway 231, between
                  Main and Tyler Streets, passing through the property of
                  Murray and Jewell Garrison.
2010-09  11-14-10 Closing certain alleyways of varying lengths in the city
                  block bound by Roberts, Tyler, Morrison and Main Streets
                  Closing certain alleyways of varying lengths in the city
2012-13  12-13-12 block bound by GL Smith, Warren, Porter, and South Main
                  Streets
2012-14  12-13-12 Closing a certain alleyway of 8-foot length in the city block
                  bound by GL Smith, Warren, Porter, and South Main Streets
2014-07  5-15-14  Closing certain alleyways of varying lengths running from
                  Tyler and G.L. Smith Streets
2014-13  12-11-14 Closing a certain alleyway of 12-foot length running from
                  Main Street to Warren Street
2022-01  8-22-22  Renaming Parkway Lane to Sam Kent Drive
                 
 
TABLE 7: TAXATION
   The following ordinances (by number and date) have as their subject ad
valorem taxation rates levied by the city:
Ord. No. Date Subject
Ord. No. Date    Subject
                 Establishing 1992 real property tax rate at .114 per $100
                 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .206 per
92-13    10-1-92 $100 assessed valuation; bank shares at .238 per $100 assessed
                 valuation; and motor vehicles and boats at .279 per $100
                 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 1993 real property tax rate at .113 per $100
                 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .204 per
93-12    9-23-93 $100 assessed valuation; bank shares at .241 per $100 assessed
                 valuation; and motor vehicles at .279 per $100 assessed
                 valuation.
                 Establishing 1994 real property tax rate at .110 per $100
                 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .247 per
94-13    9-20-94 $100 assessed valuation; bank shares at .245 per $100 assessed
                 valuation; and motor vehicles at .279 per $100 assessed
                 valuation.
                 Establishing 1995 real property tax rate at .100 per $100
                 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .200 per
95-09    9-26-95 $100 assessed valuation; bank shares at .245 per $100 assessed
                 valuation; and motor vehicles at .279 per $100 assessed
                 valuation.
                 Establishing 1996 real property tax rate at .094 per $100
96-06    9-19-96 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .180 per
                 $100 assessed valuation; and motor vehicles at .279 per $100
                 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 1997 real property tax rate at .093 per $100
97-04    9-26-97 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .127 per
                 $100 assessed valuation; and motor vehicles at .279 per $100
                 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 1998 real property tax rate at .090 per $100
98-04    9-22-98 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .184 per
                 $100 assessed valuation; and motor vehicles at .279 per $100
                 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 1999 real property tax rate at .091 per $100
99-04    9-22-99 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .148 per
                 $100 assessed valuation; and motor vehicles at .279 per $100
                 assessed valuation.
2000-06  9-15-00 Establishing 2000 motor vehicle tax rate at .279 per $100
                 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2000 real property tax rate at .09 per $100
2000-07  9-15-00 assessed valuation; and tangible personal property at .148 per
                 $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2001 real property tax rate at .096 per $100
2001-02  9-25-01 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .128 per
                 $100 assessed valuation; and motor vehicles at .279 per $100
                 assessed valuation
                 Establishing 2002 real property tax rate at .106 per $100
2002-02  9-26-02 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .106 per
                 $100 assessed valuation; and motor vehicles at .279 per $100
                 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2003 real property tax rate at 10.5 per $100
2003-05  9-26-03 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at 10.5 per
                 $100 assessed valuation; .025 for bank deposits; and motor
                 vehicles at 27.9 per $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2004 real property tax rate at 10.5 per $100
2004-07  9-20-04 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at 10.5 per
                 $100 assessed valuation; .025 for bank deposits; and motor
                 vehicles at 27.9 per $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2005 real property tax rate at 10.5 cents per
2005-08  9-27-05 $100 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at 10.5
                 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2006 real property tax rate at .105 cents per
2006-06  10-3-06 $100 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .105
                 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2007 real property tax rate at .104 cents per
2007-11  9-27-07 $100 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .104
                 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2008 real property tax rate at .104 cents per
2008-06  10-9-08 $100 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .104
                 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2009 real property tax rate at .104 cents per
2009-04  9-10-09 $100 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .104
                 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2010 real property tax rate at .104 cents per
2010-08  8-26-10 $100 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .104
                 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2011 real property tax rate at ten and four
2011-09  9-8-11  tenths (.104) per $100 assessed valuation; tangible personal
                 property at ten and four tenths (.104) per $100 assessed
                 valuation.
2012-01  1-19-12 Imposing a transient room tax of 3% of the rent for occupancy
                 of a transient room or rooms.
                 Establishing 2012 real property tax rate at ten and four
2012-09  9-7-12  tenths (.104) per $100 assessed valuation; tangible personal
                 property at ten and four tenths (.104) per $100 assessed
                 valuation.
                 Establishing 2013 real property tax rate at ten and five
2013-09  8-28-13 tenths (.105) per $100 assessed valuation; tangible personal
                 property at ten and five tenths (.105) per $100 assessed
                 valuation.
                 Establishing 2014 real property tax rate at ten and five
2014-11  8-26-14 tenths (.105) per $100 assessed valuation; tangible personal
                 property at ten and five tenths (.105) per $100 assessed
                 valuation.
                 Establishing 2015 real property tax rate at .116 per $100
2015-13  9-10-15 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .116 per
                 $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2016 real property tax rate at .118 per $100
2016-08  9-8-16  assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .118 per
                 $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing 2018 real property tax rate at .114 cents per
2018-01  9-13-18 $100 assessed valuation; tangible personal property at .149
                 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                 Establishing a restaurant sales tax upon the retail sale of
2019-05  9-12-19 all food and beverages by a restaurant located within the
                 municipal limits of the city a tax equal to 3%.
2019-06  - -     Reducing transient room tax to 1% of the rent for occupancy of
                 a transient room or rooms.
                 Assessing and levying a 2019 ad valorem tax of 11.1 cents per
2019-03  9-12-19 $100 assessed valuation of all taxable real property within
                 the jurisdiction, and an ad valorem tax of 12.67 cents per
                 $100 assessed valuation.
                 Assessing and levying a 2020 ad valorem tax of 10.9 cents per
2020-03  9-11-20 $100 assessed valuation of all taxable real property within
                 the jurisdiction, and an ad valorem tax of 13.81 cents per
                 $100 assessed valuation on all tangible personal property.
                 Levying a 2021 motor vehicle and watercraft property tax of
2020-04  9-11-20 27.9 cents per $100 of assessed valuation of all motor vehicle
                 and watercraft property.
                 Levying a 2021 ad valorem tax of 10.4 cents per $100 assessed
2021-06  8-30-21 valuation of all taxable property within the jurisdiction, and
                 an ad valorem tax of 10.96 cents per $100 assessed valuation
                 on all tangible personal property.
                 Levying a 2022 motor vehicle and watercraft property tax of
2021-07  8-30-21 27.9 cents per $100 assessed valuation of all motor vehicle
                 and watercraft property.
                 Levying a 2022 ad valorem tax of 0.093 cents per $100 assessed
2022-02  8-22-22 valuation of all taxable real property within the
                 jurisdiction, and an ad valorem tax of 0.093 per $100 assessed
                 valuation on all tangible personal property.
                 Levying a 2023 motor vehicle and watercraft property tax of
2022-03  8-22-22 27.9 cents per $100 assessed valuation of all taxable motor
                 vehicle and watercraft property.
                 Levying a 2023 ad valorem tax of 0.094 cents per $100 assessed
2023-06  8-28-23 valuation of all taxable real property within the
                 jurisdiction, and an ad valorem tax of 0.094 per $100 assessed
                 valuation on all tangible personal property.
                 Levying a 2024 motor vehicle and watercraft property tax of
2023-07  8-28-23 27.9 cents per $100 assessed valuation of all taxable motor
                 vehicle and watercraft property.
                
 
TABLE 8: ZONING MAP CHANGES
   The following ordinances (by number and date) enacted by the city make
specific changes in the zoning of specific property pursuant to the zoning
code:
 
Ord. No Date    Subject
97-02   4-11-97 Rezoning property owned by Roger and Deborah Givens from R-3 to
                Commercial.
10-02   3-11-10 Rezoning property located at Ward Avenue and Morrison Street
                from R-2 to Industrial.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
SUMMARY OF ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Description Section
Ord. No. Date Description                                                         Section
         4-
- -      26-  Dogs                                                                Repealed
         1897
         12-
- -      9-   License to sell pork                                                Repealed
         1897
         12-
- -      11-  Fireworks                                                           Repealed
         1897
         12-
- -      20-  Pork sales                                                          Repealed
         1897
         1-
- -      13-  Horse trading                                                       Repealed
         1898
         1-
- -      13-  Board of trustees regular meeting                                   Repealed
         1898
         1-
- -      20-  Town marshal                                                        Repealed
         1898
         2-                                                                       Not
- -      10-  Tax levy                                                            Included
         1898
         5-   Amends § 9 of previous amendment, relating to building of privy or
- -      19-  cesspool                                                            Repealed
         1898
- -      6-9- Litter                                                              Repealed
         1898
         7-
- -      18-  Horses and mules                                                    Repealed
         1898
- -      8-9- Repeals Ord. dated 12-9-1897, license to sell pork                  Table 1
         1898
- -      9-8- Hogs at large                                                       Repealed
         1898
         10-
- -      13-  Hogs at large                                                       Repealed
         1898
         1-
- -      14-  Regulates use of stoves                                             Repealed
         1899
- -      3-9- Tax levy                                                            Not
         1899                                                                     Included
         5-
- -      15-  Vaccinations                                                        Repealed
         1899
- -      2-8- Nuisances                                                           Repealed
         1900
- -      2-8- Discharging firearms                                                Repealed
         1900
- -      2-8- Unhealthful privy                                                   Repealed
         1900
- -      2-8- Tax levy                                                            Not
         1900                                                                     Included
- -      5- - Cows at large                                                       Repealed
         1900
         2-                                                                       Not
- -      19-  Annexation                                                          Included
         1901
         2-
- -      19-  License for auction                                                 Repealed
         1901
         2-                                                                       Not
- -      19-  1901 tax rate                                                       Included
         1901
         4-                                                                       Not
- -      11-  Annexation                                                          Included
         1901
         4-                                                                       Not
- -      25-  Building condemnation                                               Included
         1901
- -      7-7- Water works bond issuance                                           Not
         1902                                                                     Included
- -      3-2- 1903 tax levy                                                       Not
         1903                                                                     Included
- -      3-2- Tax assessment provisions                                           Not
         1903                                                                     Included
- -      8-3- Bids for electric light franchise                                   Not
         1903                                                                     Included
- -      8-3- Bids for water works franchise                                      Not
         1903                                                                     Included
- -      8-3- Bids for water works franchise                                      Not
         1903                                                                     Included
         2-
- -      20-  Dogs at large                                                       Repealed
         1904
- -      7-6- Payment for public works                                            Not
         1904                                                                     Included
- -      7-6- Ball playing in streets and alleys                                  Repealed
         1904
- -      - -  Building condemnation                                               Not
         1904                                                                     Included
- -      8-6- Appoints judge                                                      Not
         1904                                                                     Included
- -      - -  License tax for tobacco sales                                       Repealed
         1904
         12-                                                                      Not
- -      5-   Sidewalk construction                                               Included
         1904
         12-
- -      5-   Board of trustees regular meeting                                   Repealed
         1904
         12-
- -      5-   Drunk and disorderly conduct                                        Repealed
         1904
         12-
- -      5-   Building standards                                                  Repealed
         1904
         12-
- -      5-   Dogs                                                                Repealed
         1904
         12-                                                                      Not
- -      5-   Bids for telephone system franchise                                 Included
         1904
         4-
- -      10-  Insurance company license taxes                                     Repealed
         1906
- -      6-7- License for traveling shows                                         Repealed
         1906
         7-
- -      23-  Circuses                                                            Repealed
         1906
         12-
- -      6-   Air guns and sling shots prohibited                                 Repealed
         1906
         1-
- -      14-  Curfew                                                              Repealed
         1908
         1-
- -      14-  Cows at large                                                       Repealed
         1908
         4-
- -      29-  Repeals Ord. dated July 1906, license to sell fresh meat            Table 1
         1908
         4-
- -      29-  Sets hours for butcher shops                                        Repealed
         1908
         4-
- -      29-  Removing fire station equipment                                     Repealed
         1908
         4-
- -      29-  Sunday hours for barbershops                                        Repealed
         1908
         4-
- -      29-  Sunday closing for businesses                                       Repealed
         1908
         11-
- -      11-  Traffic                                                             Repealed
         1908
- -      1-7- Litter                                                              Repealed
         1909
- -      3-3- Tax levy                                                            Not
         1909                                                                     Included
- -      3-3- Appoints police judge alternate                                     Not
         1909                                                                     Included
         5-
- -      11-  Liquor license                                                      Repealed
         1909
- -      9-7- Repeals Ord. dated 5-11-1909, liquor license                        Table 1
         1909
- -      1- - Using fire station equipment                                        Not
         1910                                                                     Codified
- -      5-3- Playing ball or marbles on streets                                  Repealed
         1910
- -      5-3- License for public auctions                                         Repealed
         1910
- -      5-3- Horses, etc., at large                                              Repealed
         1910
         7-
- -      12-  Stock running at large on streets and alleys                        Repealed
         1912
- -      8-6- Creates electric light franchise                                    Not
         1912                                                                     Included
         11-                                                                      Not
- -      6-   Tax levy                                                            Included
         1912
        6-3- Repair of town property                                             Not
         1913                                                                     Included
- -      7-1- Dogs                                                                Repealed
         1913
         10-                                                                      Not
- -      7-   Contract for electric light assigned                                Included
         1913
         10-                                                                      Not
- -      7-   Appointment of tax assessor                                         Included
         1913
         11-                                                                      Not
- -      -    1914 tax levy                                                       Included
         1913
         11-                                                                      Not
- -      -    Contract for electric light assigned                                Included
         1913
- -      1-6- Duties of town marshal and secretary                                Repealed
         1914
- -      1-6- Discharging firearms                                                Repealed
         1914
- -      1-6- Carrying concealed weapons                                          Repealed
         1914
- -      1-6- Prohibiting alcohol sales                                           Repealed
         1914
- -      1-6- Preservation of shade trees and utility poles                       Repealed
         1914
- -      1-6- Firearms                                                            Repealed
         1914
- -      1-6- Adultery and fornication                                            Repealed
         1914
- -      1-6- Selling alcohol to drunks                                           Not
         1914                                                                     Codified
- -      4- - Speed limit of autos                                                Repealed
         1914
- -      5- - Inspection of meat                                                  Repealed
         1914
- -      1-1- Meat inspection                                                     Repealed
         1916
- -      5- - Street fund                                                         Not
         1916                                                                     Included
         6-                                                                       Not
- -      10-  Sidewalk construction                                               Included
         1916
         12-
- -      8-   License for moving pictures                                         Repealed
         1916
         12-
- -      8-   Sunday closing for businesses                                       Repealed
         1916
         12-                                                                      Not
- -      8-   Tax levy                                                            Included
         1916
- -      1- - Sunday closing for businesses                                       Repealed
         1917
- -      1-7- Snow on sidewalks                                                   Repealed
         1918
- -      5-6- Traffic rules                                                       Repealed
         1918
- -      - -  Bond election                                                       Not
         1919                                                                     Included
- -      4-9- Dogs; rabies quarantine                                             Repealed
         1919
- -      2- - Ditches in streets                                                  Repealed
         1920
         3-
- -      20-  Fire zone                                                           Repealed
         1922
- -      6-5- Fire prevention rules                                               Repealed
         1922
- -      3-5- Billiards license                                                   Repealed
         1923
- -      8-6- Vehicle regulations                                                 Repealed
         1923
         11-
- -      5-   Liquor prohibition                                                  Repealed
         1923
- -      7-7- Amends Ord. dated 4-10-1906, insurance company license taxes        Repealed
         1924
         7-
- -      21-  License tax for tobacco sales                                       Repealed
         1924
- -      8-4- Meat inspection                                                     Repealed
         1924
- -      7-7- Creates telephone franchise                                         Not
         1928                                                                     Included
- -      1-7- Tobacco license                                                     Repealed
         1929
- -      1-7- Intoxication                                                        Repealed
         1929
         1-
- -      27-  Disturbing a public assembly                                        Repealed
         1929
         4-                                                                       Not
- -      19-  Standard Oil service stations                                       Included
         1929
- -      3-7- Hog keeping                                                         Repealed
         1932
- -      3-5- License on gaming, billiards                                        Repealed
         1934
- -      5-7- Disorderly conduct                                                  Repealed
         1934
         3-
- -      20-  Liquor license, sale, regulations                                   Repealed
         1935
- -      7-1- Adds section regulating beer sales to Ord. dated 3-20-1935, liquor  Repealed
         1935 license, sale, regulations
- -      2-3- 1936 tax levy                                                       Not
         1936                                                                     Included
- -      3-2- Business license taxes                                              Repealed
         1936
- -      4-6- Electric light franchise                                            Not
         1936                                                                     Included
- -      4-6- Appoints tax assessors                                              Not
         1936                                                                     Included
- -      8-2- Parking                                                             Repealed
         1937
- -      8-2- Dogs; rabies                                                        Repealed
         1937
         12-
- -      6-   Vagrancy                                                            Repealed
         1937
- -      8-1- Occupation or profession tax                                        Repealed
         1938
- -      8-7- Creates water works franchise                                       Not
         1939                                                                     Included
- -      8-5- Parking                                                             Repealed
         1940
         10-                                                                      Not
- -      8-   Purchase of water works and electric systems                        Included
         1940
         12-
- -      7-   Official town seal                                                  10.013
         1940
         12-                                                                      Not
- -      7-   Creates town utilities commission                                   Codified
         1940
         12-                                                                      Not
- -      7-   Bond issue for purchasing water works and electric systems          Included
         1940
         12-                                                                      Not
- -      1-   1942 ad valorem tax                                                 Included
         1941
- -      1-5- Litter                                                              Repealed
         1942
- -      7-7- Public assembly                                                     Repealed
         1942
- -      1-4- Liquor prohibition                                                  Repealed
         1943
- -      8-2- Sidewalk condemnation                                               Not
         1943                                                                     Included
         10-
- -      4-   Exempts veterans from poll tax                                      Repealed
         1943
- -      - -  1944 ad valorem tax                                                 Not
         1944                                                                     Included
- -      4-3- Revises tax and revenue laws                                        Repealed
         1944
- -      7-3- Parking                                                             Repealed
         1944
- -      8-7- Peddler's license                                                   Repealed
         1944
- -      2-4- Establishes fire zone                                               Repealed
         1945
- -      3-5- Sidewalk construction                                               Not
         1945                                                                     Included
- -      3-5- Tax assessment list                                                 Not
         1945                                                                     Included
- -      5-7- Creates position of street surveyor and his/her assistant           Repealed
         1945
- -      7-2- Loitering                                                           Repealed
         1945
         10-
- -      1-   Modifies fire zone                                                  Repealed
         1945
         10-                                                                      Not
- -      18-  Redemption of electric and water bonds                              Included
         1945
         11-                                                                      Not
- -      1-   Electric and water bonds                                            Included
         1945
         11-                                                                      Not
- -      15-  Funds for equipment                                                 Included
         1945
         12-                                                                      Not
- -      3-   Sidewalk construction                                               Included
         1945
- -      2-4- 1946 tax levy                                                       Not
         1946                                                                     Included
- -      3-4- Tax assessment list                                                 Not
         1946                                                                     Included
- -      3-4- License surcharge                                                   Not
         1946                                                                     Included
- -      4-1- Speed limit                                                         Repealed
         1946
- -      4-1- Repeals and replaces Ord. dated 5-7-1934, disorderly conduct        Repealed
         1946
- -      9-2- Sale of electric system                                             Not
         1946                                                                     Included
- -      2-3- 1947 tax levy                                                       Not
         1947                                                                     Included
- -      4-7- Noise                                                               Repealed
         1947
- -      4-7- Driver's license                                                    Repealed
         1947
- -      5-5- Cross-connections; sewer                                            Repealed
         1947
- -      5-5- Toilets, sewers                                                     Repealed
         1947
- -      8-7- License for traveling shows                                         Repealed
         1947
         10-                                                                      Not
- -      29-  Redemption of electric and water works bonds                        Included
         1947
         11-                                                                      Not
- -      17-  Water works bonds issue                                             Included
         1947
- -      2-3- 1948 tax levy                                                       Not
         1948                                                                     Included
- -      4-6- Parking                                                             Repealed
         1948
- -      4-6- Sales of milk                                                       Repealed
         1948
- -      6-1- License for traveling shows                                         Repealed
         1948
- -      8-3- License fees on coin-operated machines                              Repealed
         1948
         9-                                                                       Not
- -      21-  Building and zoning                                                 Codified
         1948
         11-
- -      12-  Truck stand license fees                                            Repealed
         1948
- -      3-7- 1949 tax levy                                                       Not
         1949                                                                     Included
- -      6-6- Repeals, amends, re-enacts Ord. dated 9-1948, building and zoning   Not
         1949                                                                     Codified
- -      6-6- Business and occupations taxes                                      Repealed
         1949
- -      6-6- Truck stand license fees                                            Repealed
         1949
         9-                                                                       Not
- -      21-  Assessment for street improvement; bids for same                    Included
         1949
         10-                                                                      Not
- -      10-  Street improvements; bids for same                                  Included
         1949
         12-                                                                      Not
- -      5-   Assessment for street improvements                                  Included
         1949
         2-                                                                       Not
- -      20-  1950 ad valorem tax                                                 Included
         1950
- -      3-6- Street improvements; bids for same                                  Not
         1950                                                                     Included
- -      6-5- Street improvements                                                 Not
         1950                                                                     Included
- -      6-5- Town boundaries                                                     Not
         1950                                                                     Included
50-1     - -  Weed control                                                        Repealed
50-2     - -  Parking meters                                                      Repealed
50-3     - -  Parking                                                             Repealed
51-1     - -  Sewer rates                                                         Repealed
51-2     - -  Street improvements; bids for same                                  Not
                                                                                  Included
51-3     - -  Assessment for street improvements                                  Not
                                                                                  Included
- -      3-3- 1952 tax levy                                                       Not
         1952                                                                     Included
52-1     - -  Creates town utilities commission                                   22.100
52-2     - -  Building and zoning; fire zone                                      Repealed
52-3     - -  Discharging firearms                                                Repealed
53-1     - -  Authorizes Mayor to execute contract with insurance company         Not
                                                                                  Included
54-1     - -  Amends Ord. dated 6-6-1949, building and zoning                     Repealed
54-2     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
54-3     - -  Regulates rubbish heaps, prohibits burning                          Repealed
54-4     - -  Public address systems, noise                                       Repealed
54-5     - -  Sidewalk maintenance                                                41.100
54-6     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
54-7     - -  License fees for traveling shows                                    Repealed
54-8     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
Ord. No. Date Description                                                         Section
54-9     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
54-10    - -  Sidewalk construction and maintenance                               41.100
54-11    - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
54-12    - -  Morgantown utilities system                                         22.100
         10-                                                                      Not
- -      18-  Water works and sewer revenue bonds                                 Included
         1954
54-13    - -  Water rates                                                         Repealed
54-14    - -  Amends unnumbered Ord. dated 10-18-1954, water works and sewer      Not
              revenue bonds                                                       Included
- -      2-7- 1955 tax levy                                                       Not
         1955                                                                     Included
55-1     - -  Tax assessment                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
55-2     - -  Milk inspection and sales                                           Repealed
55-3     - -  Water and sewer lines                                               Repealed
55-4     - -  Repeals and replaces Ord. 50-1, weed control                        Repealed
55-5     - -  Not sent                                                            Not
                                                                                  Included
55-6     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
56-1     - -  Amends Ord. dated 6-6-1949, building and zoning                     Repealed
56-2     - -  Tax on vehicle licenses                                             Repealed
- -      2-2- Parking meters                                                      Repealed
         1956
         2-
- -      23-  Amends Ord. 50-2, parking meters                                    Repealed
         1956
56-3     - -  Parking                                                             Repealed
56-4     - -  Creates post of fire chief                                          Repealed
56-5     - -  Stop signs                                                          Repealed
56-6     - -  Condemnation, street improvement                                    Not
                                                                                  Included
56-7     - -  House numbers                                                       Repealed
- -      9-6- Street names                                                        Not
         1956                                                                     Included
- -      2-7- Street closure                                                      Not
         1957                                                                     Included
57-1     - -  Salary of Mayor, council members                                    Repealed
57-2     - -  Amends "the present weed ordinance," weed control                   50.100,
                                                                                  50.101
58-1     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
58-2     - -  License tax on carpenters et al                                     Repealed
58-3     - -  License tax on insurance companies                                  Repealed
         7-                                                                       Not
- -      28-  Appoints pro tem judge                                              Included
         1958
              Authorizes Mayor to contract with Kentucky Department of Highways
58-4     - -  for street maintenance                                              Table 1
              (Repealed by Ord. 2016-01)
- -      5-7- Permit for constructing driveways                                   Repealed
         1959
59-1     - -  Repeals, amends and re-enacts Ord. dated 6-6-1949, building and     Repealed
              zoning
- -      1-4- Annexation                                                          Not
         1960                                                                     Included
60-1     - -  Jukeboxes                                                           Repealed
60-2     - -  Truck unloading license fee                                         Repealed
60-3     - -  Places city on Central Daylight Savings Time                        Repealed
60-4     - -  Adopts 1955 edition of the Standards of Safety of the Commonwealth  Repealed
              of Kentucky
60-5     - -  Creates city planning and zoning commission                         Repealed
61-1     - -  Places city on Central Daylight Savings Time                        Repealed
61-2     - -                                                                     Repealed
61-3     - -  Regulates and licenses truck stands                                 Repealed
         7-   Health department standards for restaurants and food service
- -      13-  businesses                                                          Repealed
         1961
         12-
- -      7-   Adoption of plumbing code                                           Repealed
         1961
62-1     - -  Salaries of Mayor, council members, police judge                    Repealed
62-2     - -  Sewer rates, regulations                                            Repealed
62-3     - -  No parking in alleys                                                Repealed
62-4     - -  Overnight and long-term parking                                     Repealed
62-5     - -  Check valves for hot water electric heaters                         Repealed
62-6     - -  Car wash plumbing                                                   Repealed
62-7     - -  Establishment of civil defense unit                                 Repealed
63-1     - -  Keeping livestock, poultry within city limits                       51.001,
                                                                                  51.002
63-2     - -                                                                     Not Sent
63-3     - -  Amends ordinance entitled "an ordinance levying a license tax on    Repealed
              vehicles in the city of Morgantown, Kentucky"
63-4     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
63-5     - -  creates municipal planning commission                               Repealed
63-6     - -  Authorizes construction of natural gas distribution system,         Not
              issuance of bonds to pay for same, bids for sale of said bonds      Included
63-7     - -  Bids for gas system bonds                                           Not
                                                                                  Included
63-8     - -  Accepts bid for bonds                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
63-9     - -  Gas rates, regulations                                              Repealed
63-10    - -  Water and sewer bond issue                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
64-1     - -  Adopts 1963 edition of Standards of Safety of the Commonwealth of   72.001
              Kentucky
64-2     - -  Hauling rubbish                                                     50.200
64-3     - -  Tax assessment                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
64-4     - -  Regulates construction, maintenance of gas fixtures                 Repealed
64-5     - -  Establishes city police department                                  22.001
64-6     - -  Parking revenues designated as general funds monies                 Repealed
65-1     - -  Salary, bond amount for city clerk/city treasurer                   Repealed
65-2     - -  Compensation of city officials                                      Not
                                                                                  Codified
65-3     - -  Sets city council meeting times, place, quorum, presiding officer   20.208
65-4     - -  Authorizes purchase of police car                                   Not
                                                                                  Included
65-5     - -  Tax assessment                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
65-6     - -  Business and professions license fee                                Repealed
65-7     - -  Dance hall license fee                                              Repealed
65-8     - -  Cigarette sale license fee                                          Repealed
65-9     - -  Cigarette machine license fee                                       Repealed
65-10    - -  Traveling show license fee                                          Repealed
65-11    - -  Coin-operated machine license fee                                   Repealed
65-12    - -  Pool room license fee                                               Repealed
65-13    - -  Gas rates                                                           Repealed
65-14    - -  Established Morgantown Factory Building Corporation                 Not
                                                                                  Included
65-15    - -  Parking                                                             Repealed
65-16    - -  Declares Morgantown Factory Building Corporation a public project,  Not
              empowers it to act                                                  Included
66-1     - -  Prohibits merchandise on sidewalks                                  41.300,
                                                                                  41.999
66-2     - -  Acquiring building for Kentucky Marine Corporation                  Not
                                                                                  Included
66-3     - -  Street construction                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
66-4     - -  Ad valorem tax                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
67-1     - -  Creates Housing and Unsafe Building Code                            Repealed
67-2     - -  Industrial building revenue bonds                                   Not
                                                                                  Included
67-3     - -  Fire zone                                                           Repealed
              Adopts National Building Code (1967 Edition), National Electrical
67-4     - -  Code (1965 Edition), Kentucky State Plumbing Law, Regulations and   Repealed
              Code (1967 Edition), Housing and Unsafe Building Code (1966
              Edition) and Standards of Safety
67-5     - -  Creates Morgantown planning commission                              Repealed
67-6     - -  Acquisition of industrial building                                  Not
                                                                                  Included
67-7     - -  Water and sewer rates                                               Repealed
68-1     - -  Registration, licensing, regulation of motor vehicles               Repealed
68-2     - -  Building acquisition                                                Not
                                                                                  Included
69-1     - -  License for professions                                             Repealed
69-2     - -  Salaries for Mayor and judge                                        Repealed
70-1     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
70-2     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
70-3     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
70-4     - -  License for businesses and professions                              Repealed
70-5     - -  Street improvements                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
70-6     - -  Alley vacations                                                     Not
                                                                                  Included
71-1     - -  Gas rates                                                           Repealed
71-2     - -  Overnight, long-term parking                                        Not
                                                                                  Codified
71-3     - -                                                                     Repealed
72-1     - -  Police authority to enter certain property                          Repealed
72-2     - -  Operation of police court                                           Repealed
- -      1-4- Amends Ord. 65-15, parking                                          Repealed
         1973
73-1     - -  Drug use                                                            Repealed
73-2     - -  Revenue sharing order                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
73-3     - -  Compensation of city officials                                      Repealed
73-4     - -  Zoning                                                              Not
                                                                                  Included
73-5     - -  Manufacturers' exemption from city tax                              Expired
73-6     - -  Salary, training for police officers                                Repealed
73-7     - -  Court costs assigned                                                Repealed
74-1     - -  Taxicab licensing and regulation                                    Chapter
                                                                                  63
74-2     - -  Gas rates                                                           Repealed
74-3     - -  Police officers                                                     Repealed
74-4     - -  Gas rates                                                           Repealed
74-5     - -  Gas rates                                                           Repealed
74-6     - -  Placement of signs, mailboxes on streets, etc.                      41.301
75-1     - -  Police salaries                                                     22.021
76-2     - -  Construction of Big Branch sewer extension                          Not
                                                                                  Included
76-3     - -  Gas rates                                                           Repealed
77-1     - -  Gas rates                                                           Repealed
77-2     - -  Acquisition of recreation complex                                   Not
                                                                                  Included
77-3     - -  Parking                                                             Repealed
78-1     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
         3-                                                                       Not
- -      30-  Annexation                                                          Included
         1979
79-1     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
79-2     - -  Compensation for city officials                                     Repealed
79-3     - -  Fair housing practices                                              Repealed
80-1     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
80-2     - -  Tax assessment                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
80-3     - -  Creates CATV franchise                                              Not
                                                                                  Included
80-4     - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
80-5     - -  1981 budget                                                         Not
                                                                                  Included
81-1     - -  Creates Butler County Disaster and Emergency Services Agency        22.300
81-2     - -  Digging near water and gas lines                                    41.200
81-3     - -  Utilities improvements                                              Not
                                                                                  Included
81-5     - -                                                                     Not Sent
81-6     - -                                                                     Not Sent
81-7     - -  Authorizes agreement between city and Kentucky Municipal League     Not
              Unemployment Compensation Reimbursement Trust                       Included
81-8     - -  1981 ad valorem tax                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
81-9     - -  Building permit fees                                                Repealed
82-1     - -                                                                     Not Sent
82-2     - -  Amends budget                                                       Not
                                                                                  Included
82-3     - -  1982 ad valorem tax                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
82-4     - -  License tax on all businesses and professions                       Repealed
82-5     - -  Amends 1982-83 budget                                               Repealed
                                                                                  50.001-
83-1     - -  Nuisances o private property                                        50.006,
                                                                                  50.999
83-2     - -  Amends 1982-83 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
83-4     - -  Creates city maintenance department, post of city maintenance       Repealed
              supervisor, salary for same
83-5     - -  1983 ad valorem tax                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
84-1     - -  Establishes post of, salary for, city clerk                         21.200-
                                                                                  21.204
84-2     - -  1984-85 budget                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
84-3     - -  Amends Ord. 84-1, salary for city clerk                             Repealed
84-4     - -  Amends Ord. 83-4, salary for city maintenance supervisor            Repealed
84-5     - -  Sewer and storm drain pollution                                     Repealed
84-6     - -  1984 ad valorem tax                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
84-7     - -  1985 motor vehicle tax                                              Not
                                                                                  Included
84-8     - -  Grievance procedures for discrimination cases                       Repealed
85-1     - -  License fee on insurance companies (Repealed by Ord. 2016-01)       Table 1
85-2     - -  Amends 1984-85 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
85-3     - -  Amends Ord. 85-1, license fee on insurance companies (Repealed by   Table 1
              Ord. 2016-01)
85-4     - -  Creates Morgantown Airport Board                                    Not
                                                                                  Included
85-5     - -  1985-86 budget                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
85-6     - -  Amends 1985-86 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
85-7     - -  Amends Ord. 84-1, salary for city clerk                             Repealed
85-8     - -  Industrial building revenue bonds                                   Not
                                                                                  Included
85-9     - -  1986 motor vehicle tax                                              Not
                                                                                  Included
85-10    - -  1986 ad valorem tax                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
85-11    - -  Regulations and permits for street dances                           Repealed
86-1     - -  Amends Ord. 70-4, license on businesses and professions             Repealed
86-2     - -  Creates CATV franchise                                              Chapter
                                                                                  62
86-3     - -  1986-87 budget                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
86-4     - -  Amends 1986-87 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
86-5     - -  Grants CATV franchise to Thomas Communications, Inc.                Not
                                                                                  Included
86-6     - -  Amends Ord. 83-4, salary for city maintenance supervisor            Repealed
86-7     - -  Amends Ord. 84-1, salary for city clerk                             Repealed
86-8     - -  Salary for Mayor                                                    Repealed
86-9     - -  Amends 1986-87 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
86-10    - -  Amends zoning regulations, comprehensive zoning map                 Not
                                                                                  Included
86-11    - -  1986 ad valorem tax                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
86-12    - -  1987 motor vehicle tax                                              Not
                                                                                  Included
87-01    - -  Exemption of Sumitomo Electric Wiring Systems, Inc., from city      Not
              taxes                                                               Included
87-02    - -  Industrial development revenue bonds; Sumitomo Electric Wiring      Not
              Systems, Inc.                                                       Included
87-03    - -  1987-88 budget                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
87-04    - -  Amends Ord. 83-4, salary for city maintenance supervisor            Repealed
87-05    - -  Amends Ord. 84-1, salary for city clerk                             21.200-
                                                                                  21.204
87-06    - -  Amends 1986-87 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
87-07    - -  Sewer and storm drain pollution                                     Repealed
87-08    - -  Repeals Ords. 50-1, 50-2, 52-3, 54-3, 54-4, 55-4, 60-1, 60-3, 61-1, Table 1
              61-2, 62-7, 72-2 and 73-7
              Parking; repeals Ords. 50-3, 56-3, 62-4, 64-6, 65-15, 71-3, 73-     40.100-
87-09    - -  0 and 77-3                                                          40.106,
                                                                                  40.999
              License on all businesses, occupations and professions; repeals
87-10    - -  Ords. 60-2, 61-3, 65-6, 65-7, 65-8, 65-9, 65-10, 65-11, 65-12, 69-  Table 1
              1, 70-4, 82-4 and 86-1  (Repealed by Ord. 2008-05)
87-11    - -  1988 motor vehicle tax                                              Not
                                                                                  Included
87-12    - -  1987 ad valorem tax                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
87-13    - -  Planning and zoning permits and fees                                Repealed
87-14    - -  Amends 1987-88 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
88-01    - -  Salary for Mayor                                                    20.107
88-02    - -  Amends Ord. 84-1, salary for city clerk                             21.204
88-03    - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
88-04    - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
88-05    - -  1988-89 budget                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
88-06    - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
88-07    - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Passed
88-08    - -  Amends Ord. 84-1, salary for city clerk                             21.204
88-09    - -  Amends 1987-88 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
88-10    - -  1989 motor vehicle tax                                              Not
                                                                                  Included
88-11    - -  1988 ad valorem tax                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
88-12    - -  Revised zoning ordinance                                            Chapter
                                                                                  80
88-13    - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
89-01    - -  Annexation                                                          Not
                                                                                  Included
89-02    - -  1989-90 budget                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
89-03    - -  Amends Ord. 84-1, salary for city clerk                             21.204
89-04    - -  Amends Ord. 83-4, salary for city maintenance supervisor            Not
                                                                                  Codified
89-05    - -  Fair housing ordinance                                              Chapter
                                                                                  71
89-06    - -  Amends 1988-89 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
89-07    - -  Bond issue; American Rubber Products Corporation                    Not
                                                                                  Included
89-08    - -  Alley vacation                                                      Not
                                                                                  Passed
89-09    - -  1990 motor vehicle tax                                              Not
                                                                                  Included
89-10    - -  1980 ad valorem tax                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
90-1     - -  Bond issue for Southern Healthcare Systems                          Not
                                                                                  Included
90-2     - -  Building code; creates post of building administrator               70.001-
                                                                                  70.205
90-03    - -  1990-91 budget                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
90-04    - -  Amends Ord. 84-1, salary for city clerk                             21.204
90-05    - -  Amends Ord. 83-4, salary for city maintenance supervisor            Not
                                                                                  Codified
90-06    - -  Sewer use                                                           Repealed
90-07    - -  Amends 1989-90 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
90-08    - -  Motor vehicle tax                                                   Not
                                                                                  Codified
90-09    - -  1990 ad valorem tax                                                 Not
                                                                                  Included
91-01    - -  Compensation plan                                                   28.001
91-02    - -  Amends Ord. 88-12, zoning                                           80.054
91-03    - -  Alley vacation                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
91-04    - -  1991-92 budget                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
91-05    - -  City participation in county employees retirement system            28.002
91-06    - -  Amends 1990-91 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
91-07    - -  Amends 1991-92 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
91-08    - -  Ad valorem tax                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
91-09    - -  Ad valorem tax                                                      Not
                                                                                  Included
91-10    - -  Amends 1991-92 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
91-11    - -  Use of public sewers; repeals old sewer use ordinance               Chapter
                                                                                  30
91-12    - -  Amends 1991-92 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
92-01    - -  Amends 1991-92 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
92-02    - -  Establishes position of city attorney                               21.300-
                                                                                  21.306
92-03    - -  Amends 1991-92 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
92-04    - -  Establishes position of city attorney                               21.300-
                                                                                  21.306
92-05    - -  Adopts 1992-93 budget                                               Not
                                                                                  Included
92-06    - -  Width of certain streets                                            Not
                                                                                  Included
              Repeals Ords. 4-26-1897, 12-11-1897,
              12-20-1897, 1-13-1898 (Horse trading),
              1-13-1898 (Board meetings), 1-20-1898,
              5-19-1898, 6-9-1898, 7-13, 1898, 7-18-1898,
              9-8-1898, 10-13-1898, 1-14-1899, 5-15-1899,
              2-8-1900 (Nuisance abatement), 2-8-1900 (Firearms), 2-8-1900
              (Regulate privies),
              5- -1900, 2-19-1901, 1904 (Tobacco sales),
              2-20-1904, 7-6-1904, 12-5-1904 (Drunk and disorderly), 12-5-1904
              (Building standards),
              12-5-1904 (Board meetings), 12-5-1904 (Female dog license tags), 4-
              10-1906, 6-7-1906,
              7-23-1906, 12-6-1906, 1-14-1908 (Curfew),
              1-14-1908 (Cows at large, confined by marshall), 4-29-1908 (Butcher
              shop hours), 4-29-1908 (General Sunday closing), 4-29-1908 (Sunday
92-07    - -  barbershop hours), 4-29-1908 (Prohibit unauthorized use of fire     Table 1
              equipment), 11-11-1908, 1-7-1909, 2-1-1910, 4-3-1910, 5-3-1910
              (Prohibit playing marbles or ball in street), 5-3-1910 (License
              public auction), 7-12-1912, 7-1-1913,
              1-6-1914 (Adultery), 1-6-1914 (Flourishing deadly weapon), 1-6-1914
              (Weapons discharge), 1-6-1914 (Concealed deadly weapon), 1-6-1914
              (Prohibit alcohol sales), 1-6-1914 (Town marshall), 1-6-1914
              (Prohibit hitching horses, etc., to shade), April 1914 (Speed),
              April 1914 (Speed limits), 5- -1914, 1-6-1915, 1-1-1916,
              12-8-1916 (Sunday closing), 12-8-1916 (Moving pictures), 1- -1917,
              1-7-1918, 5-6-1918,
              4-9-1919, 2-7-1920, 3-20-1922, 6-5-1922,
              3-5-1923, 8-6-1923, 11-5-1923, 7-7-1924,
              7-21-1924, 8-4-1924, 1-7-1929 (Intoxication),
              1-7-1929 (Tobacco license), 1-27-1929, 3-7-1932, 3-5-1934, 3-
              20,1935, 7-1-1935, 3-2-1936,
              8-2-1937 (Dogs to be restrained or muzzled),
              8-2-1937 (Parking)12-6-1937, 8-1-1938,
              8-5-1940, 1-5-1942, 7-7-1942 (Prohibit public speaking on square),
              7-7-1942 (Prohibit spitting on streets), 1-4-1943, 10-4-1943, 4-3-
              1944,
              7-3-1944 (Speed limits), 7-3-1944 (Parking),
              8-7-1944, 2-4-1945, 5-7-1945, 7-2-1945,
              10-1-1945, 4-1-1946 (Speed limits), 4-1-1946 (Disorderly conduct),
92-07         4-7-1947 (Noise), 4-7-1947 (Drivers' license), 5-5-1947, 8-7-1947,
(Cont'd) - -  4-6-1948 (Sale of milk), 4-6-1948 (Parking), 6-1-1948,              Table 1
              8-3-1948, 11-12-1948, 6-6-1949 (Truck stand license), 6-6-1949
              (Business and occupational tax), 2-2-1956, 5-7-1959, 8-4-1960, 7-
              13-1961, 12-7-1961, 51-1, 52-2, 54-1, 54-7, 54-13, 55-2, 55-3, 56-
              1, 56-2, 56-4, 56-5, 56-7, 57-1, 58-2, 58-3, 59-1, 60-4, 60-5, 62-
              1, 62-2, 62-3, 62-5, 62-6, 63-3, 63-5, 63-9, 64-4, 65-1, 65-13, 67-
              1, 67-3, 67-4, 67-5, 67-7, 68-1, 69-2, 71-1, 73-1, 73-3, 73-6, 74-
              2, 74-3, 74-4, 74-5, 76-3, 77-1, 79-2, 79-3, 81-9, 83-4, 84-3, 84-
              4, 84-8, 85-7, 85-11, 86-6, 86-7, 86-8, 87-4, 87-13, 90-6)
                                                                                  71.010,
92-08    - -  Amends Ord. 89-05, fair housing standards                           71.014,
                                                                                  71.999
92-09    - -  Amends Ord. 65-3, city council meetings                             20.208
92-10    - -  Regulates entry of city officials upon private property for         10.014,
              inspections; repeals Ord. 72-1                                      Table 1
92-11    - -  Amends Ord. 88-12, zoning                                           80.006 ,
                                                                                  80.007
         10-                                                                      Chapter
92-13    1-92 Levying ad valorem taxes for 1992                                   27,
                                                                                  Table 7
92-14    12-  Vetoed                                                              Not
         3-92                                                                     Included
92-15    1-7- Amending the annual budget for FY 1992-1993                         Not
         93                                                                       Included
         12-                                                                      Not
92-16    18-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1991-1992                         Included
         92
93-01    3-8- Reinstating Ord. 89-05 providing for standards for fair housing     Chapter
         93                                                                       71
93-02    3-8- Establishing speed limits on Hwy. 231 and 70                        40.001
         93
93-03    4-1- Adopting an exposure to hepatitis B and HIV protection plan         28.003
         93
93-04    4-1- Amending the annual budget for FY 1992-1993                         Not
         93                                                                       Included
93-05    6-3- Establishing procedures for council meetings                        20.208
         93
93-06    6-3- Approving a joint and cooperative program and authorizing an        Table 4
         93   interlocal cooperation agreement
         6-                                                                       Not
93-07    22-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 1993-1994                         Included
         93
         6-                                                                       Not
93-08    22-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1992-1993                         Included
         93
93-09    9-2- Amending the annual budget for FY 1993-1994                         Not
         93                                                                       Included
         9-
93-10    22-  Adopting the Morgantown Municipal Code                              Front
         93
         9-                                                                       Not
93-11    15-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1993-1994                         Included
         93
         9-
93-12    23-  Levying ad valorem tax for 1993                                     Table 7
         93
         11-                                                                      Not
93-13    30-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1993-1994                         Included
         93
94-01    2-3- Amending the annual budget for FY 1993-1994                         Not
         94                                                                       Included
94-02    4-7- Amending the annual budget for FY 1993-1994                         Not
         94                                                                       Included
94-03    4-8- Increasing the salary of mayor                                      20.107
         94
         4-
94-04    11-  Increasing the salary of council members                            20.211
         94
94-05    6-9- Relating to noise pollution and providing for a sound level meter   Repealed
         94
94-06    6-9- Repealing Municipal Order 92-01 and further clarifying the use of a 20.108
         94   motor vehicle by the mayor
         6-                                                                       Not
94-07    23-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 1994-1995                         Included
         94
         5-                                                                       Chapter
94-08    11-  Establishing the Fire Prevention Code                               72
         95
         8-                                                                       Not
94-09    22-  Rejecting participation in a sanitation district                    Included
         94
         8-
94-10    27-  Changing the day of the monthly council meeting                     20.208
         94
         8-                                                                       Not
94-11    27-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1993-1994                         Included
         94
         10-  Regulating parking, stopping, standing or repairing a vehicle on    40.103,
94-12    13-  any street or parking facility                                      40.999
         94
         9-
94-13    20-  Levying ad valorem taxes for 1994                                   Table 7
         94
                                                                                  22.100,
94-14    12-  Providing for the management, control and operation of the          22.102,
         8-94 utilities system                                                    22.104,
                                                                                  22.105
94-15    12-  Establishing a code of ethical conduct                              Chapter
         8-94                                                                     26
         4-                                                                       Not
95-01    13-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1994-1995                         Included
         95
         8-                                                                       80.200
95-02    10-  Relating to mobile homes, mobile home parks and modular homes       Repealed
         95
         6-                                                                       Not
95-03    14-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 1995-1996                         Included
         95
         6-                                                                       21.300-
95-04    14-  Amending the position of city attorney                              21.306
         95
         9-   Granting a franchise agreement to Tele-Media Company of Southwest
95-05    14-  Kentucky for CATV                                                   Table 3
         95
95-06        Did not pass                                                        Not
                                                                                  Included
         9-                                                                       Not
95-07    25-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1994-1995                         Included
         95
         9-                                                                       Not
95-08    25-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1995-1996                         Included
         95
         9-
95-09    26-  Levying ad valorem taxes for 1995                                   Table 7
         95
         4-
96-01    24-  Issuing solid waste disposal facilities revenue bonds, series 1996  Table 2
         96
         6-   Issuing health facilities revenue refunding bonds, series 1996A and
96-02    26-  1996B                                                               Table 2
         96
         6-                                                                       Not
96-03    26-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 1996-1997                         Included
         96
         6-
96-04    13-  Abandoning an alleyway                                              Table 6
         96
         8-   Authorizing first mortgage revenue bonds, series 1977, of the
96-05    15-  Recreational Facilities Corporation                                 Table 2
         96
         9-                                                                       27.999,
96-06    19-  Levying ad valorem taxes for 1996                                   Table 7
         96
         9-                                                                       Chapter
96-07    19-  Imposing a bank franchise and local deposit tax                     64
         96
         12-
96-08    11-  Amending the personnel manual                                       Table 5
         96
         12-                                                                      Not
96-09    11-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1995-1996                         Included
         96
         4-
97-01    11-  Issuing solid waste disposal facilities revenue bonds, series 1997  Table 2
         97
         4-
97-02    11-  Rezoning a parcel of real estate                                    Table 8
         97
         6-                                                                       Not
97-03    16-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 1997-1998                         Included
         97
         9-
97-04    26-  Levying ad valorem taxes for 1997                                   Table 7
         97
         10-                                                                      Not
97-05    13-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1996-1997                         Included
         97
         10-                                                                      Not
97-06    13-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1997-1998                         Included
         97
97-07    1-8- Amending the personnel manual                                       Table 5
         98
         2-                                                                       52.001,
98-01    12-  Establishing curfew for minors                                      52.999
         98
         6-
98-02    12-  Issuing solid waste disposal facilities revenue bonds, series 1998  Table 2
         98
         6-                                                                       Not
98-03    12-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 1998-1999                         Included
         98
         9-
98-04    22-  Levying ad valorem taxes for 1998                                   Table 7
         98
         12-                                                                      Not
98-05    23-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1997-1998                         Included
         98
99-01    4-8- Establishing the Morgantown-Butler County Tourism Commission        Table 1
         99
         6-                                                                       Not
99-02    29-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 1999-2000                         Included
         99
99-03                                                                            
         9-
99-04    22-  Levying ad valorem taxes for 1999                                   Table 7
         99
         10-                                                                      Not
99-05    15-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1998-1999                         Included
         99
2000-01  3-9- Clarifying the election process                                     Not
         00                                                                       Included
         4-
2000-02  13-  Regulating sewer use (Repealed by Ord. 2014-01)                     Table 1
         00
         4-   Implementing classification plan, compensation plan and policies
2000-03  13-  and procedures                                                      28.001
         00
         6-                                                                       Not
2000-04  29-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 2000-2001                         Included
         00
         9-                                                                       Not
2000-05  15-  Amending the annual budget for FY 1999-2000                         Included
         00
         9-
2000-06  15-  Levying ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles                          Table 7
         00
         9-                                                                       27.003,
2000-07  15-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         00
         11-
2000-08  13-  Implementing three percent annual salary incentive                  Table 5
         00
         12-
2000-09  14-  Establishing a uniform speed limit within the city                  40.001
         00
         6-                                                                       Not
2001-01  28-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 2001-2002                         Included
         01
         9-   Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property and motor
2001-02  25-  vehicles                                                            Table 7
         01
         12-                                                                      Not
2001-03  18-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2000-2001                         Included
         01
         6-                                                                       Not
2002-01  13-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 2002-2003                         Included
         02
         9-   Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property and motor
2002-02  26-  vehicles                                                            Table 7
         02
2002-03  12-  Adopting the Morgantown Code of Ordinances                          Front
         9-02
         1-                                                                       Not
2003-01  20-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2001-2002                         Included
         03
         4-
2003-02  14-  Setting the salary for the Zoning Administrator                     Table 5
         03
         8-                                                                       Not
2003-03  13-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 2003-2004                         Included
         03
         9-8-                                                                     51.100 -
2003-04  03   Establishing regulations for dogs                                   51.110 ,
                                                                                  51.999
         9-   Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property and motor
2003-05  26-  vehicles                                                            Table 7
         03
2003-06  11-                                                                      Not
(1)      17-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2003-2004                         Included
         03
2003-06  12-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2003-2004                         Not
(2)      9-03                                                                     Included
2003-06  3-8- Amending the annual budget for FY 2003-2004                         Not
(3)      04                                                                       Included
         4-                                                                       Not
2004-01  12-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2002-2003                         Included
         04
         4-                                                                       Not
2004-02  12-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2003-2004                         Included
         04
         4-
2004-03  12-  Amending the Classification and Compensation Plans                  Table 5
         04
         5-                                                                       Not
2004-04  10-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2003-2004                         Included
         04
         6-                                                                       Not
2004-05  28-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 2004-2005                         Included
         04
         9-
2004-06  16-  Issuing solid waste disposal facilities revenue bonds, series 2004  Table 2
         04
         9-   Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property and motor
2004-07  20-  vehicles                                                            Table 7
         04
         3-                                                                       Not
2005-01  15-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2004-2005                         Included
         05
         3-                                                                       21.204 ,
2005-02  15-  Amending the compensation for the City Clerk/Treasurer              Table 5
         05
         6-   Levying and imposing license fees and occupational taxes (Repealed
2005-03  28-  by Ord. 2008-05)                                                    Table 1
         05
         6-   Granting a franchise agreement to Mediacom Southeast LLC to
2005-04  29-  construct and operate a cable system                                Table 3
         05
         10-                                                                      22.500 ,
2005-06  10-  Establishing guidelines for a volunteer fire department             22.501
         05
         9-
2005-08  27-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         05
2005-09  11-  Establishing a flood damage prevention plan                         Ch. 73
         2-05
         2-                                                                       50.001
2006-02  13-  Amending the nuisances                                              -
         06                                                                       50.006 ,
                                                                                  50.999
2006-06  10-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         3-06
         2-
2007-01  12-  Adopting the Morgantown Code of Ordinances                          Front
         07
         2-                                                                       31.001
2007-02  12-  Establishing cross connection prevention regulations                -
         07                                                                       31.003
         5-
2007-03  10-  Establishing continuity of government                               20.006
         07
         6-                                                                       50.300 ,
2007-05  14-  Unlawful noises prohibited                                          50.999
         07
         6-                                                                       65.001
2007-06  14-  Establishing vending regulations                                    -
         07                                                                       65.004 ,
                                                                                  65.999
         6-                                                                       66.001 ,
2007-07  14-  Establishing prohibition of soliciting from roadways                66.002 ,
         07                                                                       66.999
         9-
2007-11  26-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         07
         2-
2008-02  14-  Adopting the S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances               Front
         08
         6-                                                                       60.001
2008-05  12-  Repealing and readopting regulations for Occupational license taxes -
         08                                                                       60.013 ,
                                                                                  60.999
         12-                                                                      32.001 ,
2008-07  11-  Residential solid waste ordinance                                   32.002
         08
2009-03  7-9- Authorizing an inter-local cooperative agreement                    Table 4
         09
2008-06  10-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         9-08
         9-
2009-04  10-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         09
         3-
10-02    11-  Amending the zoning map                                             Table 8
         10
10-05    7-8- Establishing regulations for the National Flood Insurance Program   80.055
         10
         8-
2010-08  26-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         10
         11-
2010-09  14-  Closing certain alleyways                                           Table 6
         10
2010-11  12-  Adopting the S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances               Front
         9-10
         4-   Amending the location of the regular monthly meeting of the City
2011-02  14-  Council                                                             20.208
         11
         4-   Amending the location of the regular monthly meeting of the         Not
2011-03  14-  Planning and Zoning Commission                                      Included
         11
2011-07  6-9- Establishing the line of succession for the Mayor                   20.109
         11
2011-09  9-8- Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         11
         1-
2012-01  19-  Imposing a transient room tax                                       Table 7
         12
2012-02  2-9- Adopting the S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances               Front
         12
2012-03  3-8- Amending occupational license tax regulations                       60.003
         12
         5-                                                                       Not
2012-05  10-  Establishing the by-laws of the Planning Commission                 Included
         12
         4-
2012-006 27-  Amending compensation for City Council members                      20.211
         12
2012-09  9-7- Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         12
2012-12  11-  Proposing the creation of a regional water commission               Not
         8-12                                                                     Included
         12-
2012-13  13-  Closing certain alleyways                                           Table 6
         12
         12-
2012-14  13-  Closing certain alleyways                                           Table 6
         12
         2-
2013-01  14-  Establishing the line of succession for the Mayor                   20.109
         13
         2-
2013-02  14-  Adopting the S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances               Front
         13
         4-                                                                       Not
2013-03  11-  Four-way stop sign                                                  Included
         13
         4-                                                                       Not
2013-04  11-  Reducing a speed limit                                              Included
         13
         6-
2013-08  19-  Amending sign regulations                                           80.201
         13
         8-
2013-09  28-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         13
         2-                                                                       30.001 -
2014-01  13-  Repealing and replacing pretreament standards                       30.004,
         14                                                                       30.500 -
                                                                                  30.513
         4-
2014-02  10-  Amending sign regulations                                           80.201
         14
         4-                                                                       Not
2014-03  10-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2013- 2014                        Included
         14
         4-                                                                       20.107,
2014-04  24-  Amending the compensation for the Mayor                             Table 5
         14
         4-                                                                       20.211,
2014-05  24-  Amending the compensation for City Council members                  Table 5
         14
         5-
2014-06  29-  Adopting the S-8 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances               Front
         14
         5-
2014-07  15-  Closing certain alleyways                                           Table 6
         14
         5-                                                                       Not
2014-08  29-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2013- 2014                        Included
         14
         6-                                                                       Not
2014-09  29-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 2014- 2015                        Included
         14
         8-                                                                       Not
2014-10  14-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2013- 2014                        Included
         14
         8-
2014-11  26-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         14
         11-                                                                      Not
2014-12  25-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2014- 2015                        Included
         14
         12-
2014-13  11-  Closing certain alleyways                                           Table 6
         14
         12-                                                                      50.001 -
2014-14  22-  Amending public nuisances regulations                               50.007
         14
2014-15  1-8- Amending the annual budget for FY 2014- 2015                        Not
         15                                                                       Included
         2-
2015-01  12-  Establishing the line of succession for the Mayor                   20.109
         15
2015-02  - -  Amending the annual budget for FY 2014- 2015                        Not
                                                                                  Included
         3-   Amending the compensation for the Chief of Police (Repealed by Ord.
2015-03  30-  2015-14)                                                            Table 1
         15
         3-
2015-04  30-  Amending the compensation for the City Maintenance Supervisor       Table 5
         15
         3-   Amending the compensation for the City Clerk/Treasurer (Repealed by
2015-05  30-  Ord. 2015-12)                                                       Table 1
         15
         3-                                                                       22.100 -
2015-06  30-  Amending Utilities Commission provisions                            22.105
         15
         3-                                                                       80.404,
2015-07  30-  Amending Board of Adjustment and Planning Commission provisions     80.406 ,
         15                                                                       80.407 ,
                                                                                  80.408
         3-                                                                       Not
2015-08  30-  Amending the Municipal Housing Authority resolution                 Included
         15
         5-                                                                       Not
2015-09  14-  Amending the annual budget for FY 2014- 2015                        Included
         15
         6-                                                                       Not
2015-10  11-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 2015- 2016                        Included
         15
2015-11  7-9- Amending the personnel policy (Repealed by Ord. 2016-10)            Table 1
         15
-        9-1- Zoning amendment                                                    80.007
         15
2015-12  9-4- Establishing Office of City Administrative Officer/City Clerk       21.200 -
         15                                                                       21.204
         9-
2015-13  10-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         15
2015-14  9-4- Amending the compensation for the Chief of Police (Repealed by Ord. Table 1
         15   2016-07)
         11-                                                                      40.200 -
2015-15  12-  Establishing requirements to operate golf carts                     40.205,
         15                                                                       40.999
         11-                                                                      23.200 -
2015-16  12-  Establishing a charitable donations policy for the city             23.202
         15
-        - -  Zoning amendment                                                    80.402
         16
         3-                                                                       61.001 -
2016-01  10-  Repealing and replacing insurance premium tax provisions            61.005
         16
         4-                                                                       80.220
-        12-  Zoning amendments                                                   -
         16                                                                       80.240
2016-02  6-9- Establishing authority for law enforcement disciplinary procedures  51.002
         16   for the park
2016-03  6-9- Adopting the annual budget for FY 2015- 2016                        Not
         16                                                                       Included
                                                                                  41.001,
         11-                                                                      41.100 -
2016-04  10-  Amending sidewalk provisions                                        41.104,
         16                                                                       41.200,
                                                                                  41.300
         8-
2016-06  11-  Amending the compensation for the City Administrative/City Clerk    Table 5
         16
         8-
2016-07  11-  Amending the compensation for the Chief of Police                   Table 5
         16
2016-08  9-8- Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         16
         11-                                                                      67.001 -
2016-09  10-  Establishing alcoholic beverage provisions                          67.029
         16
2016-10  12-  Amending the personnel policy (Repealed by Ord. 2020-01)            Table 1
         8-16
2016-11  12-  Amending the compensation for the City Administrative/City Clerk    21.204 ,
         8-16                                                                     Table 5
2017-01  2-9- Adopting International Property Maintenance Code                    70.002
         17
2017-02  2-9- Establishing a Code Enforcement Board                               22.600 -
         17                                                                       22.615
2017-03  3-9- Establishing a training incentive program for city officials        28.004
         17
                                                                                  53.001
2017-04  6-6- Establishing firework regulations                                   -
         17                                                                       53.004 ,
                                                                                  53.999
         7-
2017-06  13-  Amending the compensation for the Chief of Police                   Table 5
         17
-        - -  Zoning amendment                                                    80.110
         17
         9-
2018-01  13-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         18
2018-02  11-  Amending International Property Code regulations                    70.002
         8-18
2019-02  5-9- Amending hours of sale and delivery regulations for alcohol         67.008
         19   beverage control
         6-                                                                       Not
2019-03  13-  Adopting the annual budget for FY 2019-2020                         Included
         19
         9-
2019-03  12-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         19
         9-                                                                       22.400 -
2019-04  12-  Amending Tourism and Convention Commission regulations              22.403
         19
         9-
2019-05  12-  Establishing restaurant tax rate for the city                       Table 7
         19
2019-06  - -  Lowering Transient room tax rate                                    Table 7
2019-07  12-  Amending meeting location for Board of Adjustments                  Not
         6-19                                                                     Included
2019-08  12-  Amending meeting location for City Council                          Not
         6-19                                                                     Included
2019-09  12-  Amending meeting location for Code Enforcement Board                Not
         6-19                                                                     Included
2019-10  12-  Amending meeting location for Planning and Zoning Board             Not
         6-19                                                                     Included
2019-11  12-  Amending meeting location for Morgantown City Tourism and           Not
         6-19 Convention Commission                                               Included
2019-12  12-  Amending meeting location for Utilities Commission                  Not
         6-19                                                                     Included
                                                                                  60.001,
2019-13  - -  Amending business license regulations                               60.003,
                                                                                  60.999
         2-
2020-01  13-  Amending the personnel policy                                       Table 5
         20
         3-                                                                       Not
2020-02  12-  Adopting the annual operating budget for FY 2019-2020               Included
         20
         9-
2020-03  11-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         20
         9-
2020-04  11-  Levying motor vehicle and watercraft property tax                   Table 7
         20
         11-
2020-06  24-  Approving a lease agreement to finance a project                    Table 2
         20
-        - -  Zoning amendment                                                    80.020
         21
         6-
2021-04  10-  Amending alcoholic beverage regulatory license fees                 67.022
         21
2021-05  7-8- Amending the location of the regular monthly meeting of the City    20.208
         21   Council
         8-
2021-06  30-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         21
         8-
2021-07  30-  Levying motor vehicle and watercraft property tax                   Table 7
         21
-        - -  Zoning amendment                                                    80.401
         22
         8-
2022-01  22-  Renaming street                                                     Table 6
         22
         8-
2022-02  22-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         22
         8-
2022-03  22-  Levying motor vehicle and watercraft property tax                   Table 7
         22
2023-01  3-3- Imposing a license fee or tax upon insurance companies              61.001 ,
         23                                                                       61.003
         4- -                                                                     80.201
-        23   Zoning amendments                                                   -
                                                                                  80.203
         5-                                                                       Not
2023-02  11-  Adopting the annual operating budget for FY 2022-2023               Included
         23
2023-03  6-1- Adopting the annual operating budget for FY 2023-2024               Not
         23                                                                       Included
         7-                                                                       Not
2023-04  13-  Amending the annual operating budget for FY 2022-2023               Included
         23
         8-
2023-06  28-  Levying ad valorem taxes on real and personal property              Table 7
         23
         8-
2023-07  28-  Levying motor vehicle and watercraft property tax                   Table 7
         23
         9-                                                                       Not
2023-08  14-  Amending salary for the Utilities Commission                        Included
         23
         9-                                                                       Not
2023-09  14-  Amending salary for Housing Authority                               Included
         23
         9-                                                                       Not
2023-10  14-  Amending salary for Planning Commission                             Included
         23
         9-   Amending the reimbursement for members of the Code Enforcement
2023-11  14-  Board                                                               22.603
         23
         9-                                                                       54.001
2023-12  14-  Establishing burn regulations                                       -
         23                                                                       54.006
                                                                                  80.021 ,
                                                                                  80.101
-        10-  Zoning amendments                                                   -
         2-23                                                                     80.103 ,
                                                                                  80.105 ,
                                                                                  80.106
         10-                                                                      80.600
2023-05  12-  Establishing criteria and procedures for reasonable accommodation   -
         23                                                                       80.613
                                                                                  80.042 ,
-        - -  Zoning amendments                                                   80.104 ,
                                                                                  80.109
                                                                                  80.043 ,
         1- -                                                                     80.105 ,
-        24   Zoning amendments                                                   80.106 ,
                                                                                  80.108 ,
                                                                                  80.230
                                                                                
 
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS SECTION CODE SECTION
KRS SECTION           CODE SECTION
Sec. 157b, Ky. Const. 23.003
Sec. 163, Ky. Const.  62.001
Sec. 164, Ky. Const.  62.001,
                      62.003
                      21.203,
Sec. 228, Ky. Const.  22.603,
                      67.007
Sec. 246, Ky. Const.  20.005
6.691                 50.004
6.955-6.975           23.004
Ch. 13B               67.007
                      22.020,
                      22.021,
15.410-15.510         22.024,
                      22.026,
                      22.027,
                      22.028
17.150                22.025
18A.225               61.003
39.415                22.301
41.240(4)             23.005
42.450-42.495         23.004
43.050                23.004
45.570-45.640         23.115
                      23.111 ,
Ch. 45A               24.107 ,
                      25.100
45A.175               23.109
45A.205               23.109
45A.343               23.101
45A.345 - 45A.460     23.101
45A.345 - 45A.990     23.117
45A.352(8)            23.100
45A.355               23.111
45A.360(2)            23.102
                      23.100,
45A.365               23.104,
                      23.117,
                      23.119
                      23.100,
45A.370               23.105,
                      23.117
                      23.100,
45A.375               23.105,
                      23.110,
                      23.117
                      23.100,
45A.380               23.104,
                      23.106,
                      23.117
45A.385               23.100,
                      23.107
45A.390               23.104
45A.395               23.104,
                      23.113
45A.400               23.103
45A.405               23.109
45A.410               23.109
45A.415               23.104
45A.420               23.117
45A.430               23.109
45A.440               23.109
45A.455               23.120
45A.455(4)            23.119
Ch. 56                24.107 ,
                      25.100
61.168                24.107
61.169                24.107
61.805(1)             25.001
61.805(2)             25.001
61.805(3)             25.001
61.805(4)             25.001
61.805(5)             25.001
61.805 - 61.850       25.105
61.810                25.100
61.815                25.101
61.820                25.102
61.823                25.103,
                      25.104
61.823(4)             25.104
61.826                25.104
61.840                25.104
61.846                25.105
61.848                25.105
61.870 - 61.882       21.202
61.870                24.001,
                      26.100
61.870(1)(h)          24.001
61.872(1)             24.100
61.872(2)             24.100
61.872(3)             24.100
61.872(4)             24.101
61.872(5)             24.102
61.872(6)             24.103
61.874(5)             24.100
61.874(6)             24.100
61.878                24.001,
                      24.107
61.878(1)(i)          25.100
61.880                24.104
61.880(1)              
61.882                24.104
61.884                24.106,
                      26.100
Ch. 62                20.003,
                      21.001
Ch. 64                28.004
65.003                26.003,
                      31.001
65.007                22.403
65.067                21.002
                      22.600,
65.8801 - 65.8839     22.601,
                      22.612
65.8815(5)            22.604
67.753                60.004
Ch. 78                28.004
78.510(21)            28.002
Ch. 79                23.100
82.082                26.003,
                      31.001
Ch. 83A               20.001,
                      28.004
83A.010(5)            10.002
83A.010(6)            10.002
83A.010(7)            10.002
83A.010(8)            10.002
83A.010(9)            10.002
83A.010(10)           10.002
83A.010(11)           10.002
83A.020               20.001
83A.030               20.001
                      20.006,
                      20.100 -
                      20.103,
83A.040               20.105,
                      20.109,
                      20.200 -
                      20.203,
                      20.206
83A.040(7)            20.104,
                      20.204
83A.043               20.002
83A.045(A)            20.002
83A.045(B)            20.002
83A.045(C)            20.002
83A.050               20.201
83A.060               20.205
83A.060(12)           20.210
83A.060(13)           20.210
83A.060(14)           20.210
83A.060(15)           20.207
83A.065               10.002,
                      10.999
83A.070               20.005,
                      20.107
83A.080               21.202
83A.085               21.202
                      20.001,
83A.130               20.103,
                      20.106,
                      20.209
83A.130(10)           20.105
91A                   22.400
91A.010(6)            23.001
91A.010(7)            23.001
91A.010(8)            10.002
91A.020               23.002
91A.030               23.003
91A.040               23.004
91A.060               23.005 
91A.080               60.003
91A.080(8)            61.005
91A.350               22.400
91A.350(2)            22.401
91A.350 - 91A.390     22.402
91A.390(2)            22.403
92.300(3)             60.003
99.700                70.203
99.705                70.205
99.730                70.205
                      80.003,
Ch. 100               80.006,
                      80.404
100.217 - 100.261     80.404
100.217               80.404
100.253               80.404
100.347               80.405
100.348               80.220
Ch. 116 - 121         20.002
Ch. 118               20.002
118.105               26.004
118.115               26.004
118.325               26.004
118.760               26.004
131.190               24.107
Ch. 136               64.001
136.120               60.003
136.320               61.003
Ch. 147               80.006
Ch. 147A              80.006
Ch. 151               73.001
151.250               73.001
151.280               73.001
151.310               73.001
151.320               73.001
Ch. 154               24.107
157.420               23.100
157.440               23.100
Ch. 177               80.201
177.020               41.001
177.047               41.001
182.020               40.204,
                      50.002
186.050               40.204
Ch. 189               40.203
189.286               40.201
189.340(5)            40.101
189.450               40.101
189.456               40.104
189.820               40.202,
                      40.999
198B                  70.101
Ch. 219               80.006
219.130               80.200
219.310-219.410       80.220
219.320               80.200 ,
                      80.235
219.330               80.235
219.350               80.200
224.1-010(30)(a)      40.101
224.20-720            40.204
224.43-315            40.101
227.550               50.004 ,
                      80.220
                      67.002,
                      67.005,
Ch. 241 - 244         67.006,
                      67.007,
                      67.014
                      67.003,
Ch. 241               67.004,
                      67.005,
                      67.017
241.100               67.007
241.170               67.007
241.200               67.017
                      67.003,
Ch. 242               67.004,
                      67.005,
                      67.017
242.010(12)           67.007
                      60.003,
                      67.003,
Ch. 243               67.004,
                      67.005,
                      67.006,
                      67.017
243.030               67.014
243.033(1)            67.014
243.033(2)            67.014
243.070               67.006 ,
                      67.022
243.075               67.006 ,
                      67.022
243.360               67.014
243.390               67.014
243.450               67.020
243.490               67.020
243.490(2)            67.020
243.500               67.020
243.850               67.027
                      67.003,
Ch. 244               67.004,
                      67.005,
                      67.017
244.040               67.009
244.090(2)            67.009
258.265               50.002
Ch. 304               61.001
304.38-060            61.003
304.39-080            40.202,
                      40.999
304.49-010            61.003
Ch. 337               23.116,
                      28.004
344.600 et seq.       80.600
Ch. 350               73.001
360.150               80.236
360.150(C)            80.200
367.4901 - 367.4917   41.200
Ch. 376               23.112
                      20.210,
                      23.004,
                      67.003,
Ch. 424               67.014,
                      70.002 ,
                      80.109 , 
                      80.500
424.170               67.014
424.220               23.004
446.010(1)            10.002
446.010(8)            10.002
446.010(9)            10.002
446.010(10)           10.002
446.010(13)           10.002
446.010(14)           10.002
446.010(17)           10.002
446.010(23)           10.002
446.010(26)           10.002
446.010(27)           10.002
446.010(28)           10.002
446.010(30)           10.002
446.010(31)           10.002
446.010(33)           10.002
446.010(36)           10.002
446.010(37)           10.002
446.010(39)           10.002
446.010(43)           10.002
446.010(46)           10.002
446.010(47)           10.002
446.010(49)           10.002
446.010(55)           10.002
446.020(1)            10.003
446.020(2)            10.003
446.030               10.003
446.080(3)            10.003
446.080(4)            10.003
446.090               10.005
446.110               10.006
532.090(1)            10.002
534.040(2)(a)         10.002
534.040(2)(c)         10.002
                      
 
