CITY OF MT. VERNON, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2014 S-16 Supplement
Includes Ordinance #2014-3, dated 6-16-14
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2014
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
MT. VERNON, KENTUCKY
COUNCIL
Adam Bales
Jamie Bryant
Wayne Bullock
Shelley Raines Lewis
Clifford Mullins
Sharon Saylor
OFFICIALS
 
Mayor                      Mike Bryant
City Attorney              Bobby Amburgey
City Clerk/Treasurer       Jeanette Robinson
Police Chief               Brian Carter
Water/Sewer Superintendent Dennis McClure
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 5-2000
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MT. VERNON, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 1999 S-12 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Mt. Vernon,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
adoption of the Supplement S-11 of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Mt.
Vernon, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1.  That the 1999 S-12 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Mt. Vernon, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.  That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
      /s/  Karen K. King     
      Mayor
/s/  Kaye Rader     
   City Clerk
   Date of First Reading:       7/3/00                         
   Date of Second Reading:     8/14/00                       
   Date of Publication:        9/7/00                         
ORDINANCE NO. 2-2002
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MT. VERNON, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky, has completed
the 2001 S-13 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Mt. Vernon,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
adoption of the Supplement S-12 of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Mt.
Vernon, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1.  That the 2001 S-13 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Mt. Vernon, as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.  That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
      /s/  Karen K. King     
      Mayor
/s/  Kaye Rader     
   City Clerk
   Date of First Reading:       5/6/02
   Date of Second Reading:     6/10/02                       
   Date of Publication:        6/13/02                         
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-3
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF MT. VERNON, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2009 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Mt.
Vernon, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinance of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Mt. Vernon:
   SECTION 1.  That the 2009 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Mt. Vernon, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.  That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, aaproval and publication as required by law.
Passed this 15th day of June, 2009.
Passed on First Reading     May 20, 2009 
Adopted on Second Reading        June 29, 2009 
Published     June 18, 2009 
       Clarice R. Kirby  /s/
      Mayor
ATTEST:
Jeanette Robinson /s/ 
City Clerk
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
   Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   10.04   Computation of time
   10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   10.06   Writings and signatures
   10.07   Severability
   10.08   Revivor
   10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   10.10   Construction of section references
   10.11   Ordinances repealed
   10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   10.13   Ordinances saved
   10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   10.15   Conflicting provisions
   10.16   Reference to offices
   10.17   Errors and omissions
   10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01  SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the Mt.
Vernon Code, for which designation codified ordinances" or code" may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code. (KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless specified. Any component code may be referred to
and city by its name, such as the traffic code." Sections may be referred to
and cited by the designation §" followed by the number, such as §
10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ACTION." Includes all proceedings in any court of this state. (KRS 446.010
(1))
   "AND." May be read OR," and OR" may be read AND," if the sense requires it.
   "ANIMAL." Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   "AVIS."  The automated vehicle information system established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collect tiling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicles operator’s
licenses and personal identification card. (KRS 446.010(55))
   "CATTLE." Includes horse, mule, ass, cow, ox, sheep, hog, or goat of any age
or sex. (KRS. 446.010(8))
   "CERTIFIED MAIL."  Any method of governmental, commercial, or electronic
delivery that allows a document or package to have proof of:
   (1)   Sending the document or package;
   (2)   The date the document or package was delivered or delivery was
attempted; and
   (3)   The signature of the receipt of the document or package.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   "CITY." MUNICIPAL CORPORATION," or MUNICIPALITY." When used in this code
shall denote the City of Mt. Vernon irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   "COMPANY." May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   "CORPORATION." May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(11))
   "COUNCIL." The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010(5))
   "COUNTY." Rockcastle County, Kentucky.
   "CRUELTY." As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(13))
   "DIRECTORS." When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   "DOMESTIC." When applied to corporations, partnerships, business trusts, or
limited liability companies, means all those incorporated or formed by
authority of this state. (KRS 446.010(15))
   "DOMESTIC ANIMAL." Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010
(16))
   "EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY." The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   "EXECUTIVE ORDER." An order issued by the Mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(7))
   "FEDERAL." Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(18))
   "FOREIGN." When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships,
business trusts, statutory trusts or limited liability companies, includes all
those incorporated or formed by authority of any other state. (KRS 446.010(19))
   "KEEPER" or PROPRIETOR." Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves
or as a servant, agent, or employee.
   "KRS." Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   "LAND" or REAL ESTATE." Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than chattel interest. (KRS 446.010
(24))
   "LEGISLATIVE BODY." The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   "LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER." A City Councilman. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   "MAY." The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
   "MISDEMEANOR." An offense for which the criminal fine cannot exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1), or both unless otherwise specified by
statute. (KRS 83A.065)
   "MONTH." Calendar month. (KRS 446.010(27))
   "MUNICIPAL ORDER." An official act of the City Council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which
the municipality has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(9))
   "MUNICIPALITY." The City of Mt. Vernon, Kentucky.
   "OATH." Includes AFFIRMATION" in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH." (KRS 446.010(28))
   "OFFICER." Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
   (1)   Is created by the Constitution, The General Assembly, or a city;
   (2)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
   (3)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly or
by implication by the city;
   (4)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a superior
power other than law;
   (5)   Has some permanency;
   (6)   Requires an official oath;
   (7)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
   (8)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority.
(KRS 83A.010(10))
   "ORDINANCE." An official action of the Council, which is a regulation of a
general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or is an
appropriation of money.
   "PARTNERSHIP." Includes both general and limited partnerships. (KRS 446.010
(30))
   "PEACE OFFICER." Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan and urban-county government correctional officers, marshals,
policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make arrests. (KRS
446.010(31))
   "PERSON." May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies. (KRS 446.010(33))
   "PERSONAL PROPERTY." Includes all property except real.
   "PREMISES." As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   "PROPERTY." Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   "PUBLIC AUTHORITY." Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   "PUBLIC PLACE." Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   "REAL PROPERTY." Includes land, tenements, and hereditaments.
   "REGISTERED MAIL."  Any governmental, commercial or electronic method of
delivery that allows a document or package to have"
   (1)   Its chain of custody recorded in a register to enable its location to
be tracked;
   (2)   Insurance available to cover its loss; and
   (3)   The signature of the recipient of the document or package available to
the sender.
(KRS 446.010(36))
   "REGULAR ELECTION." The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected. (KRS 446.010(29))
   "RESOLUTION." A less formal mechanism for dealing with matters of a special
or temporary character. While an ordinance, and to a large extent a municipal
order, involves a distinctly legislative act, a RESOLUTION" is simply an
expression of the opinion, will or policy of the legislative body on some
matter of ministerial business which has come before the body.
   "SHALL." The act referred to is mandatory. (KRS 446.010(39))
   "SIDEWALK." That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STATE." The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "STREET." Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   "SUBCHAPTER." A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS."
   "SWORN." Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   "TENANT" or OCCUPANT." As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   "VACANCY IN OFFICE." Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a
term of office without a lawful incumbent therein, of when the person elected
or appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, ow when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise. (KRS 446.010(46))
   "VIOLATE." Includes failure to comply with. (KRS 446.010(47))
   "VIOLATION." An offense for which the criminal fine cannot exceed the amount
set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c). (KRS 83A.065)
   "YEAR." Calendar year. (KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one (1)
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one (1) person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males. (KRS 446.020(2)))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of the
Council. (KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared. (KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning. (KRS 446.080(4))
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
34A.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
35.   DEPARTMENTS
      
36.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
37.   HUMAN RESOURCES
CHAPTER 30:  MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
   Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01  FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the Mayor-
Council Plan."
(KRS 83A.130 (1))
§ 30.02  GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130 (2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of not less than six (6) nor more
than twelve (12) members as prescribed by ordinance.
(KRS 83A.030 (1))
CHAPTER 31:  CITY OFFICIALS
   Section
General Provisions
   
31.01     Oath of office
   
31.02     Bond
   
31.03     Compensation
   
31.04     Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20     Election procedure
   
31.21     Mayor
   
31.21A   Vice Mayor
   
31.22     Councilmembers
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35     Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36     City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.37     Water and Sewer Superintendent
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Oath.  Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath:  "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of this Commonwealth, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of ________ according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or
affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a
citizen of this State, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this
State, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel
with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor
aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God", as established by
Section 228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of oath.  The person administering the oath of office to
an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was administered and
the date of its administration.  The written certification shall be filed in
accordance with KRS 62.020.
§ 31.02  BOND.
   (A)   All officers, officials and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments, charter county governments and special districts who handle
public funds in the execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient
bond to the local governing body for the faithful and honest performance of his
or her duties and as security for all money coming into that person's hands or
under that person's control.  The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum
amount of public funds the officer, official or employee handles at any given
time during a fiscal year cycle.  The local governing body shall pay the cost
of the bond.
   (B)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS Chapter 65)
§ 31.03  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected.  An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
   (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers with
the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with Section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than twelve thousand dollars ($12,000) per annum and Mayors in cities
other than the first class and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no
greater than seven thousand two hundred dollars ($7,200) per annum.
   (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer in the ordinance that creates the office and may change it by
ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the city's pay classification plan ordinance.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
   Statutory reference:
      Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.04  REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers.  Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal.  No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing.  The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers.  Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
   Statutory reference:
      Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(6)
      Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20  ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 83A.050, the election of city officers shall be under
the nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS 83A.045 (Ord. 8-87,
passed 11-9-87)
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except no change shall
be made earlier than five (5) years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
two hundred forty (240) days preceding the regular election for that office,
except in the event of a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office.  Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
   (H)   All candidates shall file their nomination papers with the County
Clerk no earlier than the first Wednesday after the first Monday in November of
the year preceding the year in which the office will appear on the ballot and
no later than the second Tuesday in August before the day fixed by KRS Chapter
118 for holding a regular election. Signatures for nomination papers shall not
be affixed on the document to be filed prior to the first Wednesday after the
first Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the office
will appear on the ballot.
(KRS 83A.045(2)(b)(1))
   Statutory reference:
      Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
      Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3), (4)
      Election to fill unexpired term of city office, see KRS 83A.165
§ 31.21  MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office.  The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election.  A candidate for Mayor shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one (1) year prior to his or her
election. His term of office shall begin on the first day of January following
his election and shall be for four (4) years and until his successor qualifies.
If a person is elected or appointed as Mayor in response to a vacancy and
serves less than four (4) calendar years, then that period of service shall not
be considered for purposes of re-election a term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications.  The Mayor shall be at least twenty-one (21) years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city
throughout his term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy.  If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council will
fill the vacancy within thirty (30) days.  If for any reason, any vacancy in
the office of Mayor is not filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the
Governor shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person
who shall serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1),(2),(6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council.  The resignation shall be effective at
the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring after the
date specified in the written letter of resignation. 
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.  (KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor.  The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan,
city ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually.  He shall make any recommendations
for actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances.  Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.  (KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.  Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order. (KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D) (5) above.  However, the Mayor may not delegate
the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority
to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
such action.  If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of § 31.21 (C)
shall apply.  (KRS 83A.130 (10))
§ 31.21A  VICE-MAYOR.
   (A)   Appointment, term of office.  The Vice-Mayor of this city shall be
appointed by the Mayor at his discretion.  The Vice-Mayor shall serve at the
discretion and pleasure of the Mayor.
   (B)   Qualifications.  The Vice-Mayor shall be at least 25 years of age,
shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout
his term of office and be a member of the City Council.
   (C)   Vacancy.  If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Vice-Mayor, the
Mayor may fill the vacancy within thirty (30) days.
   (D)   Power and duties.
      (1)   The Vice-Mayor shall assist the Mayor in enforcing the Mayor-
Council Plan, city ordinances and orders, and all applicable statute(s).  He
shall assist the Mayor in supervision of all departments of city government and
city employees under his jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Vice-Mayor shall have the authority to sign any checks in the
absence of the Mayor.
   (E)   Compensation.  The Vice-Mayor shall receive no compensation for any
work he performs during his appointment as Vice-Mayor.
   (F)   Oath; Bond.
      (1)   The Vice-Mayor shall take the oath of office pursuant to §
31.01.
      (2)   The Vice-Mayor shall, if required, execute bond which meets the
requirements of KRS 62.060.  (Ord. 9-99, passed 9-17-99)
      (3)   Bond.  Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
§ 31.22  COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35  ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council.  The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   Water and Sewer Superintendent.
   Statutory reference:
      Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.36  CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the City Clerk/Treasurer shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the "official custodian" or
"custodian" pursuant to KRS 61.870 to 61.882;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city if used;
      (4)   Performance of all duties and responsibilities required of the City
Clerk by statute or ordinance; and
      (5)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department for
Local Government a list containing current city information including, but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer;
            3.   City Manager;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Finance Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief; and
            8.   Public Works Director
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
   (C)   The oath of office to be executed by the Mayor shall be that set forth
in Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   Statutory reference:
      See KRS 83A.085
   (D)   Before entering on the duties of this office, the City Clerk/Treasurer
shall execute bond, with a corporate surety authorized and qualified to become
surety on bond in this state, in the amount of two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000).
   (E)   Compensation for this office shall be included in the city's
compensation plan.
   (F)   The employment policies and procedures of the city shall apply to this
office.
(Ord. 3-95, passed 6-5-95)
§ 31.37  WATER AND SEWER SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   There is established the office of Water and Sewer Superintendent.
   (B)   The Water and Sewer Superintendent shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the City Council, and may be removed by the Mayor at will,
except as tenure and terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or
contract.
   (C)   No person shall be appointed or act as Water and Sewer Superintendent
unless such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, and has provided a bond in the
sum of $-0-, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the
Commonwealth of Kentucky and conditioned upon the performance of the duties
specified herein and with the qualifications set forth in division (D) below.
   (D)   Training and experience shall consist of any combination of education,
training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills, and
abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position.
   (E)   The Water and Sewer Superintendent shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Supervise all buildings and equipment used in the furnishing of
water in the city.  The Water and Sewer Superintendent shall see that the city
utility service is conducted on an economical business-like basis.
      (2)   Enforce all the provisions of the ordinances of the city relating
to city utility service.  He shall also be responsible for all work orders,
employees, and equipment under his supervision.
   (F)   The compensation of the Water and Sewer Superintendent shall be in an
amount to be established by City Council by ordinance in accordance with §
31.02 of this code.
CHAPTER 32:  CITY COUNCIL
   Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by City Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office.  Each Councilmember shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. Terms of office begin on
the first day of January following the election and shall be for two (2) years.
   (B)   Qualifications.  A member shall be at least eighteen (18) years of
age, shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city
throughout his or her term of office. 
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation.  For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
§ 32.02  VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one (1) or more vacancies on Council occur in  a way
that one (1) or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within
thirty (30) days fill the vacancies one (1) at a time, giving each new
appointee reasonable notice of his or her selection as will enable him or her
to meet and act with the remaining members in making further appointments until
all vacancies are filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become
vacant, the Governor shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies
sufficient to constitute a quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided
in this section.
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. (KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within thirty (30) days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed. (KRS 83A.040(5))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute. (KRS
83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources. (KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council has the right to investigate all activities of city
government. The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and
submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official
duties. Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor. The Mayor has the right to review any statement before submission to
the Council and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf
of any department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation. (KRS
83A.130(13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20  MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in place of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5))
   (C)   When the Mayor is absent or otherwise unable to attend regular or
called meetings of the City Council, the Council may, if a quorum is present,
by majority vote, select one of its members to preside at the meeting.
(Ord. 1-88, passed 4-25-88)
   Cross-reference:
      Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to  preside
when there is a vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.21.
§ 32.21  MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular monthly meeting of the City Council of the City of Mt.
Vernon, Kentucky shall be held at City Hall on the third Monday of each month
at 7:00 p.m. In the event that the third Monday of a particular month should
fall on a holiday, the regularly scheduled meeting for that particular month
shall be conducted on the following Monday.  (Ord. 1-87, passed 3-9-87; Am.
Ord. 8-88, passed 12-9-88; Am. Ord. 5-2002, passed 6-20-02; Am. Ord. 1-2003,
passed 2-3-03; Am. Ord. 2006-1, passed 3-6-06; Am. Ord. 2011-1, passed 4-18-11)
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.36 and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35  ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1))
§ 32.36  INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled Be it ordained by the City of Mt. Vernon."
(KRS 83A.060(2))
§ 32.37  FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(KRS 83A.060(3))
   Cross-reference:
      Amendatory language, see § 10.14
§ 32.38  READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4),(7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or shall disapprove it by returning it to the
Council together with a statement of his or her  objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten (10) days after
receiving it or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of one (1) more than a majority
of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6))
§ 32.40  ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5))
§ 32.41  OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has herein provided, under the provisions of §§
31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city.  The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.42  INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8))
§ 32.43  PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in 32.38(B), no ordinance shall be effective until
published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by
City Council.
   (C)   (1)   If the City Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary,
the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice
law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
         (a)   The title of the ordinance;
         (b)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance
in a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and
understandable manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
         (c)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
      (2)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
   (D)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9))
§ 32.44  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may specify by ordinance additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10))
§ 32.45  PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   At least once every five (5) years all ordinances in this code of ordinances
shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one another and shall
be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent, and invalid
provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11))
§ 32.46  MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders.  All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders are amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance.  All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.  (KRS 83A.060(12), (13))
§ 32.47  PROVED BY CITY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.  (KRS
83A.060(14))
§ 32.48  LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said is debate, Councilmembers are entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15))
   Statutory reference:
      Privilege of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. §
43
CHAPTER 33:  FINANCE AND REVENUE
   Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Fees to be paid into city treasury
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   33.11   Financing of improvements
   33.12   Apportionment of cost
   33.13   Comprehensive report required
   33.14   Public hearing required
   33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   33.16   Affected owner may contest
   33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
Taxation
   
33.25   County assessment adopted
   
33.26   Ad valorem taxation
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   "BUDGET."  A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   "DEBT SERVICE."  The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   "ENCUMBRANCES."  Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts
that are chargeable to an appropriation.  An obligation ceases to be an
encumbrance when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   "FISCAL YEAR."  The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS."  Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6)
   "GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING."  Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
§ 33.02  ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions;
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles; and
      (3)   Readily provide such financial data as may be required by the
federal revenue sharing program.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03  ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section.  No moneys
shall be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in
accordance with a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
   (F)   The budget proposal shall be prepared in such form and detail as
prescribed by ordinance.
   (G)   The budget proposal together with a budget message shall be submitted
to Council no later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year it
covers.  The budget message shall contain an explanation of the governmental
goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain important
features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the reasons for
stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs, and
appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sum recommended in the budget proposal.  The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of
Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor.  The responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted.  The reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
(3) months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system call for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of a city
agency may bind the city in any way to any extend beyond the amount of money at
that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency.  All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond any existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.  (KRS
91A.030)
§ 33.04  ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant.  The audit shall be completed by February 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. Within  ten (10) days of the
completion of the audit and its presentation to City Council, in accordance
with division (B)(5) below, the city shall forward an electronic copy or three
(3) paper copies of the report to the Department for Local Government for
information purposes.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor.  The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the
agreement which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements,
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification  with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes tests of the accounting
records and auditing procedures considered necessary under the circumstances. 
Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal funds, appropriate
state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit;
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting;
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   The city shall, within thirty (30) days after the presentation of an
audit to the City Council, publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424 containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The Budgetary Comparison Schedule­Major Funds," which shall include
the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty-five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (E)   The city may utilize the alternative publication methods authorized by
KRS 424.190(2) as set forth in division (F) below to comply with the provisions
of this section. (KRS 91A.040(1), (4) - (7))
   (F)   The city may, when the cost of the newspaper publication exceeds the
costs of postage, supplies, and reproduction for the alternative method of
publication, in lieu of newspaper publication, of advertisement, substitute
delivery of a copy of the advertisement by first class mail to each residence
within the publication area. If the city elects to use this alternative
publication method, the city shall forward three (3) copies of its audit report
or one (1) copy of its financial statement, whichever is applicable, to the
Governor’s Office for Local Development in accordance with KRS 91A.040 and
424.220. (KRS 424.190(2).
   (G)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00), in the discretion of the court, which may be
recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any resident of the city. 
The costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of
the resident bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful
party.  (KRS 91A.040(8))
   Statutory reference:
      Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050.
§ 33.05  OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one (1)
or more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth.  The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or surety bonds.
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable.  Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
§ 33.06  FEES TO BE PAID INTO CITY TREASURY.
   Pursuant to KRS 95.740 and KRS 83A.070(4), all fees and commissions
authorized by law shall be paid into the city treasury for the benefit of the
city and shall not be retained by any officer or employee.  The Chief of Police
and members of the Police Department shall be entitled to the same fees and the
same remedies for collecting arrest fees that are allowed by law to sheriffs
and other officers for similar services, and all such fees shall be paid into
the city treasury.
(Ord. 344, passed 2-11-85)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot bases, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   "COST."  All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   "FAIR BASIS."  Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   "FRONT FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   "IMPROVEMENT." Construction of any facility for public use or services or
any addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   "PROPERTY." Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   "SPECIAL ASSESSMENT" or "ASSESSMENT." A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   "SQUARE FOOT BASIS." The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11  FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes. (KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
§ 33.12  APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A. 230)
§ 33.13  COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33 .13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33 .13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city
shall publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by
certified mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to
proceed with the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the
estimated cost to the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property
owner bears to the total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A) Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in any affected
property owner may file an action in the circuit court of the county,
contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment, the inclusion
of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his or her
assessment.  If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been rendered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments.  After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17  WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in § 33.16, or
after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes later, the
city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the action,
including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment thereon
and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The first
installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement.  The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners.  No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefitted property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18  EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§ 33.13 through 33.17
applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if change is
made in the method or period of financing; but additional property may be
included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof without
compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost apportioned to
any other property, or any other change may be made without such compliance if
all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
TAXATION
§ 33.25  COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED; HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The city elects to use the annual Rockcastle County assessment for
property situated within the city as a basis for city ad valorem taxes. (Ord.
339, passed  -  -  ; Am. Ord. 6-99, passed 9-17-99; Am. Ord. 6-2000, passed 9-
18-00)
   (B)   Homestead exemption. Any person making application and qualifying for
the homestead exemption as set forth in KRS 132.810 shall, before payment of
his or her property tax bills for the year in question, be entitled to a full
or partial exoneration, as the case may be, of the property tax due to reflect
the taxable assessment after allowance for the homestead exemption.  Any person
making application and qualifying for the homestead exemption as set forth in
KRS 132.810 shall, after property tax bills have been paid, be entitled to a
refund of the property taxes applicable to the value of the homestead
exemption.
(KRS 132.810(4))
§ 33.26  AD VALOREM TAXATION.
   (A)   Tax levy for calendar year 2008:
      (1)   Real estate.  An ad valorem tax rate of .166 cents on each one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed value of real property subject to
taxation under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky is hereby levied.
      (2)   Personal property.  An ad valorem tax rate of .166 cents on each
one hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed value of personal property subject to
taxation under the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky is hereby levied.
      (3)   Motor vehicles and motorboats.  An ad valorem tax rate of .167
cents on each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed value on motor vehicles
and motorboats subject to taxation under the laws of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky is hereby levied.
      (4)   Bank shares.  A tax levy of $.00025 per $100.00 of taxable value.
   (B)   Due date, payment and discount:
      (1)   Real and personal property. All said taxes shall be due and payable
at the city offices as set forth on the tax bill. Taxes paid prior to the due
date shall received a two percent (2%) discount.
      (2)   Motor vehicles and motorboats.  All ad valorem taxes on motor
vehicles and motorboats shall be collected by the Rockcastle County Clerk in
accordance with the provisions of KRS 134.800 and other applicable statues.
   (C)   Delinquent taxes:
      (1)   Real and personal property. Taxes paid up to thirty (30) days after
the due date shall be at face amount. Taxes paid more than thirty (30) days
after the due date shall be charged a ten percent (10%) penalty.
      (2)   Motor vehicles and motorboats. Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
and motorboats shall become due and delinquent as set forth in KRS 134.810 and
such taxes not paid when they become due shall be subject to the penalty and
interest as specified in therein.
(Ord. 5-95, passed 10-3-95; Ord. 6-96, passed 10-7-96; Am. Ord. 8-97, passed
11-4-97; Am. Ord. 9-97, passed 11-4-97; Am. Ord. 4-98; passed 10-7-98; Am. Ord.
5-98, passed 10-7-98; Am. Ord. 8-99, passed 9-17-99; Am. Ord. 7-2000, passed 9-
18-00; Am. Ord. 8-2000, passed 9-18-00; Am. Ord. 5-2001, passed 9-17-01; Am.
Ord. 6-2001, passed 9-17-01; Am. Ord. 7-2002, passed 9-16-02; Am. Ord. 8-2002,
passed 9-16-02; Am. Ord. 8-2003, passed 9-15-03; Am. Ord. 7-2003, passed 10-6-
03; Am. Ord. 2004-3, passed 10-4-04; Am. Ord. 2004-6, passed 10-11-04; Am. Ord.
2005-5, passed 10-3-05; Am. Ord. 2005-6, passed 10-3-05; Am. Ord. 2006-3,
passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord. 2006-4, passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord. 2007-2, passed 9-17-
07; Am. Ord. 2007-3, passed 9-17-07; Am. Ord. 2008-5, passed 10-2-08; Am. Ord.
2008-6, passed 10-2-08; Am. Ord. 2009-5, passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. 2009-6,
passed 10-20-09; Am. Ord. 2010-2, passed 10-18-10; Am. Ord. 2010-3, passed 10-
18-10; Am. Ord. 2011-3, passed 10-17-11; Am. Ord. 2011-4, passed 10-17-11; Am.
Ord. 2012-4, passed 9-17-12; Am. Ord. 2012-5, passed 9-17-12; Am. Ord. 2013-2,
passed 10-21-13; Am. Ord. 2013-3, passed 10-21-13)
CHAPTER 34:  PUBLIC RECORDS
   Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Public records protected from disclosure
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   "CITY."  The city government of this city.
   "COMMERCIAL PURPOSE."  The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee.  "COMMERCIAL PURPOSE" shall not include publication
or related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
programs; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   "CUSTODIAN."  The official custodian or any authorized person having
personal custody and control of public records.  The "CUSTODIAN" having
personal custody of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN."  The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his
actual personal custody and control.  The "OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN" of this city
shall be the Mayor.
   "MECHANICAL PROCESSING."  Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   "MEDIA."  The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   "PERSON."  A human being who makes a request for inspection of public
records.
   "PUBLIC AGENCY."  Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a "public
agency", as defined by this section; a member or employee of a "public agency",
a state or local  officer,  or  any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or 
agency,  except  for  a  committee  of a  hospital  medical  staff or a
committee  formed for the  purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public
agency  employees, established, created, or controlled by a "public agency" as
defined in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies
where each "public agency" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   "PUBLIC RECORDS."  All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes,
discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation regardless of
physical form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the
possession of, or retained by a public agency.  "PUBLIC RECORDS" shall not
include any records owned or maintained by or for a body referred to in
subsection (1) (h) of KRS 61.870 that are not related to functions, activities,
programs, or operations funded by state or local authority nor any records that
may be excluded by §
34.12.
   "REASONABLE FEE" or "FEE."  The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff.  If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   "REQUEST."  An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the city.
   "SOFTWARE."  The program code which makes a computer system function, but
does not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system.  "SOFTWARE" consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05  INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   As defined in §
34.01, and subject to the limitations set forth in §
34.12, any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of the city
shall make a request or complete a written application for such records at the
office of the City Clerk/Treasurer during regular office hours, except during
legal holidays.  The application shall be hand delivered, mailed, or sent via
facsimile to the City Clerk/Treasurer's office. (KRS 61.872 (2))
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person's request is in compliance
with the open records law and the requested records are immediately available,
the custodian shall deliver the records for inspection.  Suitable facilities
shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer for the
inspection.  No person shall remove original copies of public records from the
offices of any public agency without the written permission of the official
custodian of the record.  (KRS 61.872(1).
   (C)   An applicant may inspect public records during the regular business
hours of the city, or by receiving copies of the public records from the city
through the mail if the applicant's residence or principal place of business is
outside of the county in which the city is located and he has precisely
described public records which are available within the city. If the person
requesting the public records requests that the records be mailed, the official
custodian shall mail the copies upon receipt of all fees and the cost of
mailing.  KRS 61.872(3).
   (D)   The applicant shall have  the right to make  abstracts of the
public records and to obtain copies of all public records not exempted by this
chapter.  When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written
request and advance payment of the prescribed fee as defined in §
34.01.  (KRS 61.874(1))
   (E)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format.
   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in
standard hard copy format where agencies currently maintain records in hard
copy format.  Agencies are not required to convert hard copy format records to
electronic formats.
   (F)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than 8½ inches x 11 inches in at least one (1) color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format.  If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public records may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency.  Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (G)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial purposes, the
public agency may establish a reasonable fee.  The public agency from which
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement from the requestor stating the commercial purpose
for which  they shall be used, and may require the requestor to enter into a
contract with the agency.  The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee.  The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public
records.
(KRS 61.874 (4))
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the  requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to subsection (G) of this section: or
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose.  A newspaper, periodical,
radio or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed
the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874 (5))
   (I)   Online access to public records in electronic form, as provided under
this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency.  If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license, or other agreement with
the agency, and may charge fees for these agreements.  Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges;
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in subsection (G).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.06  REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk/Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall so notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the custodian of the
public record.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07  PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays)
from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is
given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the
public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08  REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies of public records.  However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence.  (KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09  TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within three (3) days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
three-day period of its decision.  Any agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the  withholding  of  the  record and  a  brief 
explanation of how the exception applies to the record withheld.  The response
shall be issued by the official custodian or under the official custodian's
authority and shall constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he shall proceed under
the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882.  Upon the Attorney General's request,
the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney General
reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or in part,
the request for inspection, the requesting party may institute appeal
proceedings within thirty (30) days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the
circuit court.  In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request, or
if the city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney
General's opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institutes proceedings in
circuit court, the city shall notify the Attorney General of such action.  (KRS
61.880, 61.882)
§ 34.10  CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
§ 34.11  ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.  (KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12  PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research.  This exemption shall not, however, apply
to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially
disclosed to an agency or required by an agency to be disclosed to it,
generally recognized  as confidential or proprietary, which if opened would
permit an unfair commercial advantage to competitors of the entity that
disclosed the records.
         (b)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially disclosed
to an agency or required by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally
recognized as confidential or proprietary, which are compiled and maintained
(i) in conjunction with an application or the administration of a loan or
grant; (ii) in conjunction with an application for or the administration of
assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;  (iii) in conjunction with the regulation of commercial
enterprise, including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret
commercially valuable plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used
for the making, preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or
materials which are trade commodities obtained from a person; or (iv) for the
grant or review of a license to do business.  These exemptions shall not,
however, apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by
other statutes.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth.  This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(3) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired.  The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information  to  be  used  in  a 
prospective  law enforcement action or administrative adjudication.  Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action.  The exemptions provided by this
subdivision shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or
impede the exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by statute or by federal law.
      (10)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division (A)(10)(a) through the disclosure of the location,
configuration, or security of critical systems, including public utility
critical systems. These critical systems shall include, but not be limited to
information technology, communication, electrical, fire suppression,
ventilation, water, wastewater, sewage, and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(10)(a): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and
operating, utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(10)(a) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(10), TERRORIST ACT" means a
criminal act intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(10)(a)6.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency;
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(10), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS. 61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(1) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(10) shall not
apply when a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division (A)(10) under the Open Records Law;
   (11)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
   (12)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
   (13)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation.
   (14)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is prohibited
or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the General
Assembly.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job
performance, demotions,  evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and
preliminary and other supporting documentation.  A municipal employee,
applicant, or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the
right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing
criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.  (KRS 61.878)
CHAPTER 34A:  PUBLIC MEETINGS
   Section
General
   34A.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   34A.05   Meetings open to the public
   34A.06   Requirements for closed sessions
   34A.07   Public meeting schedules
   34A.08   Special meetings
   34A.09   Video teleconferences
   34A.10   Enforcement
GENERAL
§ 34A.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   "ACTION TAKEN."  A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   "MEETING." All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the meeting is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   "MEMBER."  A member of the governing body of a public agency.  MEMBER" does
not include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   "PUBLIC AGENCY."  Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a PUBLIC
AGENCY", as defined by this section; a member or employee of a PUBLIC AGENCY",
a state or local  officer,  or  any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a  committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a PUBLIC AGENCY" as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each PUBLIC AGENCY" is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   "VIDEO TELECONFERENCE."  One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or  more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 34A.05  MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective  bargaining  negotiations  between  public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions  or  hearings  which  might  lead  to  the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee’s, member’s or student’s right to a public hearing if
requested.  This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations  of  quasi-judicial  bodies  regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his or her
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency’s
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted a discussion of a specific public
records exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.810(1)(i). However, that portion
of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the Kentucky
General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy; and
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret.
   (B)   Any series of less than  quorum meetings,  where the  members
attending one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum
of the members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the
purpose of avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall
be subject to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussion between individual
members where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on
specific issues.
(KRS 61.810)
§ 34A.06  REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
34A.05(A)(1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session, and the specific provision of § 34A.05 authorizing the closed
session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
34A.05(A) paragraphs (2), (3), (4), but only so far as (4) relates to students,
(5), (6), (7), (8), (9), and (10) are excluded from the requirements of
subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 34A.07  PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and places
which are convenient to the public.  In considering locations for public
meetings, the agency shall evaluate space requirements, seating capacity, and
acoustics.  All public agencies shall provide for a schedule of regular
meetings by ordinance, order, resolution, by laws or by whatever other means
may be required for the conduct of business of the public agency.  The schedule
of regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 34A.08  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (B) of this section, the following
requirements shall govern special meetings of public agencies:
      (1)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
      (2)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special
meeting containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the
agenda.  Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed
on the agenda in the notice.
      (3)   (a)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings.  The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting. 
The public agency may periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar
year, inform media organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
         (b)    A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (A)(3)
(a) above by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or
mail. The written request shall include the electronic mail address or
addresses of the agency member or media organization.
         (c)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency.  The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (B)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency’s
conduct of a special meeting.  The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (A)(1) of this section.  The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting.  At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section.  These comments shall appear in the minutes. 
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
§ 34A.09  VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting, other than a closed session,
through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference shall comply with the requirements of
KRS 61.820  or 61.823 as appropriate, in addition the notice of a video
teleconference shall:
      (1)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference; and
      (2)   Precisely identify the video teleconference locations as well as
which, if any, location is primary.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 34A.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
   Cross-reference:
      Rules of Procedure, see §§
32.20 through
32.22
CHAPTER 35:  DEPARTMENTS
   Section
Police Department
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Police Chief; Police Officers
Volunteer Fire Department
   
35.15   Establishment
   
35.16   Fire Chief
Convention and Tourist Commission
   
35.25   Establishment
City Ethics Commission
   
35.35   Establishment
County Office of Emergency Management
   
35.45   Establishment
   
35.46   Appointment
   
35.47   Powers, authorities, rights and duties
 
   
35.99   Penalty
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Police Department in the City.
§ 35.02  POLICE CHIEF; POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Police Chief and regular
police officers.
   (B)   The office of Police Chief is hereby established.
   (C)   The Police Chief and all police officers shall be appointed by the
Mayor at will, and may be removed by the Mayor at will except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or
contract.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the Police Chief unless such
person has taken the oath required by section 228 of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, and has provided a bond if required by the city, with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky and conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein
and with the qualifications set forth in division (E) below.
   (E)   Training and experience shall consist of any combination of education,
training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills, and
abilities to perform effectively the duties of the
position.
   (F)   Subject to the authority of the Mayor, the Chief of Police shall be
responsible for the organization and  operation of the  Police Department of
the city.  He shall supervise, direct, and control the equipment and personnel
thereof as peace officers of the city and state in the enforcement of all
statutes, laws, and ordinances thereof.
   (G)   The compensation of the Police Chief and all police officers shall be
in an amount to be established by City Council by ordinance in accordance with
§
31.02 of this code of ordinances.
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.15  ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Fire Department is hereby established in the city to be known as the Mt.
Vernon Volunteer Fire Department.
§ 35.16  FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The position of Fire Chief is hereby established.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor and may be removed by
the Mayor at will.
   (C)   Subject to the authority of the Mayor and the rules and regulations
promulgated by the volunteer firefighters and approved by the Mayor, the Chief
of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be responsible for the organization and
operation of the Fire Department.  He shall supervise, direct, and control the
equipment of the Fire Department and the volunteer firefighters in their
response to fires and the extinguishment thereof and the plans, preparations,
procedures, practices, and training in regard thereto, and may, as Chief of the
Fire Department, perform or cause to be performed all other actions authorized
by law, ordinance, or regulation.
   (D)   The compensation of the Volunteer Fire Department Chief shall be in an
amount to be established by City Council by ordinance, in accordance with §
31.02 of this code of ordinances.
CONVENTION AND TOURIST COMMISSION
§ 35.25  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a convention and tourist commission for the
purpose of developing and promoting convention and tourist activities within
the city.
(Ord. 7-90, passed 6-1-90)
CITY ETHICS COMMISSION
§ 35.35  ESTABLISHMENT.
   For information regarding the duties and responsibilities of the City Ethics
Commission, see §
36.30.
(Ord. 9-94, passed 12-5-94)
COUNTY OFFICE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 35.45  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Rockcastle County Office of Emergency
Management, in accordance with the provisions of KRS Chapters 39A to 39F, which
shall serve in the interest of public safety within the territorial boundaries
of Rockcastle County.
   (B)   The Rockcastle County Office of Emergency Management shall develop,
implement, and maintain the local comprehensive emergency management program
for Rockcastle County in accordance with the provisions of KRS Chapters 39A to
39F, the comprehensive emergency management program requirements of the state
Division of Emergency Management, the provisions of the Kentucky Emergency
Operations Plan, administrative regulations promulgated by the state Division
of Emergency Management, and the resolutions, orders or ordinances of the
fiscal court of Rockcastle County and the City Council of Mt. Vernon.
   (C)   The Rockcastle County Office of Emergency Management shall be an
organizational unit of county government attached to the Office of County
Judge/Executive and shall have primary jurisdiction, responsibility, and
authority for all matters pertaining to the comprehensive emergency management
program and disaster and emergency response of Rockcastle County, and the City
Council of Mt. Vernon.
   (D)   The Rockcastle County Office of Emergency Management shall meet all
requirements of a local emergency management agency as defined in KRS Chapters
39A to 39F, and shall be the administrative branch of the Rockcastle County
Disaster and Emergency Services organization established pursuant to KRS
Chapters 39A to 39F.
   (E)   The Rockcastle County Judge/Executive shall designate and include a
separate Office of Emergency Management budget unit classification within each
annual Rockcastle County budget, and all financial matters of the Rockcastle
County Office of Emergency Management shall be handled through the county
treasury and uniform budget system.
(Ord. 6-2002, passed 8-19-02)
§ 35.46  APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The County Judge/Executive, within thirty (30) days of assuming
office, shall appoint a Rockcastle County Emergency Management Director in
accordance with the provisions of KRS Chapter 39B, and shall immediately notify
the state Division of Emergency Management of the appointment.
   (B)   The Rockcastle County Emergency Management Director, appointed
pursuant to this section, shall be sworn by oath to the office of emergency
management director immediately upon appointment, and shall serve at the
pleasure of the County Judge/Executive, but shall serve no longer than four (4)
consecutive years without reappointment and, as a minimum, shall meet all the
qualification requirements specified in KRS Chapters 39A to 39F.
(Ord. 6-2002, passed 8-19-02)
§ 35.47  POWERS, AUTHORITIES, RIGHTS AND DUTIES.
   The County Emergency Management Director shall have and exercise all the
powers, authorities, rights, and duties as specified in KRS Chapters 39A to
39F, and in the orders or ordinances of the fiscal court of the county, and the
City Council of Mt. Vernon, to include the following:
   (A)   To represent the County Judge/Executive and the City Council on all
matters pertaining to the comprehensive emergency management program and the
disaster and emergency response of Rockcastle County.
   (B)   To be the executive head and chief administrative officer of the
Rockcastle County Office of Emergency Management and direct, control,
supervise, and manage the development, preparation, organization,
administration, operation, implementation, and maintenance of the comprehensive
emergency management program of the county, and to coordinate all disaster and
emergency response of the county;
   (C)   To develop, update, and maintain the  County Emergency Operations Plan
in compliance with the provisions of KRS Chapters 39A to 39F;
   (D)   To establish, maintain, and coordinate or direct the County Disaster
and Emergency Services organization in accordance with the provisions of the
Rockcastle County Emergency Operations Plan, the Kentucky Emergency Operations
Plan, and the provisions of KRS Chapter 39A to 39F;
   (E)   To notify the County Judge/Executive and the state Division of
Emergency Management immediately of the occurrence, or threatened or impending
occurrence, of any emergency, disaster, or catastrophic incident or situation,
and provide in such notice an assessment of possible or actual damages or
threats to life, health, safety, property, or the environment, and recommend
any emergency actions or orders which should be executed;
   (F)   To the Mayor of Mt. Vernon and the chief advisor to, and the primary
on-scene representative of, the County Judge/Executive in the event of any
emergency, declared emergency, disaster, or catastrophe within Rockcastle
County;
   (G)   To respond and have full access to the scenes of an emergency,
declared emergency, disaster, or catastrophe and immediately investigate,
analyze, or access the nature, scope, or seriousness of all situations;
coordinate the establishment and operation of an incident command or management
system; execute the provisions of the County Emergency Operations Plan;
activate the County Emergency Operations Plan; activate the Rockcastle County
Emergency Operations Center or on-scene command post; convene meetings, gather
information, and conduct briefings; notify the County Judge/Executive, Mayor,
and the state Division of Emergency Management immediately of the nature,
scope, or seriousness of any emergency situation effecting the city, and
provide information on all on-going response actions being taken in association
with the incident; provide any assistance requested, as deemed necessary or
appropriate; and take any actions to fully expedite and coordinate the disaster
and emergency response of all local public or private agencies, departments,
units, or individuals;
   (H)   To take or direct immediate actions to protect public safety at the
direction of the County Judge/Executive during and declared emergency or
disaster;
   (I)   To act as an official representative of the state Division of
Emergency Management when specifically requested by the state director;
   (J)   To report directly to the County Judge/Executive and act in an
official policy-making capacity when carrying out all duties of the office of
emergency management director;
   (K)   To have a full signatory authority, in accordance with the county
administrative code, for the execution of all contract, agreements, or other
official document pertaining to the administration, organization, and operation
of the County Office of the Emergency Management and the local comprehensive
emergency program; upon prior approval from the County Judge/Executive;
   (L)   To direct all paid volunteer employees, staff assistants, or other
workers of the County Office of Emergency Management, and supervise any
operating units and personnel associated with it which are officially appointed
and affiliated with the County Disaster and Emergency Management Services
organization pursuant to the provisions of KRS Chapter 39A to 39F;
   (M)   To prepare and submit regular or scheduled program activity reports to
the area manager of the state Division of Emergency Management and the County
Judge/Executive;
   (N)   To execute bond in the amount as determined by the County Judge/
Executive, when directed by the County Judge/Executive;
   (O)   To prepare and submit to the County Judge/Executive, on an annual
basis by the first day of March, a program and agency budget request for the
Rockcastle County Office of Emergency Management;
   (P)   To prepare and submit to the state Division of Emergency Management,
on an annual basis by the fifteenth of July, a fiscal year program paper and
budget request for the Rockcastle County Office of Emergency Management;
   (Q)   To enroll and be a registered member of the Kentucky Emergency
Management Association;
   (R)   To perform the duties of, or appoint with the approval of the fiscal
court of Rockcastle County, the Rockcastle County Search and Rescue Coordinator
pursuant to the provisions of KRS Chapter 39F; and
   (S)   To perform all administrative, organizational, or operational tasks
required pursuant to KRS Chapters 39A to 39F, Kentucky administrative
regulations, the Kentucky Emergency Operations Plan, or program guidance issued
by the state Division of Emergency Management; and to carry out all other
emergency management-related duties as required by the resolutions, orders or
ordinances of, the City Council, the executive orders of the County Judge/
Executive, and the provisions of the Rockcastle County Emergency Operations
Plan.
(Ord. 6-2002, passed 8-19-02)
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
35.45 through
35.47, or any lawful orders, rules or regulations promulgated pursuant to it,
upon conviction shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. Violators of §§
35.45 through
35.47 may be issued a citation by the Sheriff of Rockcastle County or by a duly
authorized official.
(Ord. 6-2002, passed 8-19-02)
CHAPTER 36:  CODE OF ETHICS
   Section
Standards of Conduct
   
36.01   Conflicts of interests
   
36.02   Honoraria
   
36.03   Misuse of confidential information
   
36.04   Representation of interests before city government
Financial Disclosure
   
36.10   Who must file
   
36.11   Noncompliance with filing requirements
Nepotism
   
36.20   Nepotism prohibited
City Ethics Commission
   
36.30   City Ethics Commission created
Standards of Conduct
§ 36.01  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   No city government officer or member of his immediate family shall
have an interest in a business organization or engage in any business,
transaction or activity which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of his duties in the public interest.
   (B)   No city government officer or employee shall use or attempt to use his
official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or advantages
for himself or others.
   (C)   No city government officer or employee shall act in his official
capacity in any matter where he, a member of immediate family, or a business
organization in which he has an interest, has a direct or indirect financial or
personal involvement that might reasonably be expected to impair his
objectivity or independence of judgement.
   (D)   No city government officer or employee shall undertake any employment
or service, compensated or not, which might reasonably be expected to prejudice
his independence of judgement in the exercise of his official duties.
(Ord. 9-94, passed 12-5-94)
§ 36.02  HONORARIA.
   No city government officer or employee shall be prohibited from giving or
receiving an award publicly presented in recognition of public service,
commercially reasonable loans made in the ordinary course of the  lender's 
business, or  reasonable  hosting, including  travel  and expenses,
entertainment, meals or refreshments furnished in connection with public
events, appearances, ceremonies or fact-finding trips related to official
government business.
(Ord. 9-94, passed 12-5-94)
§ 36.03  MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No city government officer or employee shall use, or allow to be used, his
public office or employment, or any information, not generally available to the
members of the public, which he receives or acquires in the course of and by
reason of his office or employment, for the purpose of securing financial gain
for himself, any member of his immediate family, or any business organization
with which he is associated except under the "rule of necessity".
(Ord. 9-94, passed 12-5-94)
§ 36.04  REPRESENTATION OF INTEREST BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No city government officer or employee or business organization in
which he has an interest shall represent any person or party other than the
local government in connection with any cause,  proceeding, application or
other matter pending before any agency in the local government in which he
serves.
   (B)   No city government officer shall be deemed in conflict with these
provisions if, by reason of his participation in the enactment of any
ordinance, resolution or other matter required to be voted upon or which is
subject to executive approval or veto, no material or monetary gain accrues to
him as a member of any business, profession, occupation or group, to any
greater extent than any gain could reasonably be expected to accrue to any
other member of such business, profession, occupation or group.
   (C)   No elected city government officer shall be prohibited from making an
inquiry for information or providing assistance on behalf of a constituent, if
no fee, reward or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by
the officer, whether directly or indirectly, in return therefor; and
   (D)   Nothing shall prohibit any city government officer or employee, or
members of his immediate family, from representing himself, or themselves, in
negotiations or proceedings concerning his, or their, own interests.
(Ord. 9-94, passed 12-5-94)
Financial Disclosure
§ 36.10  WHO MUST FILE.
   The following individuals shall be required to file a financial disclosure
statement:
   (A)   Elected officers;
   (B)   Candidates for elected office;
   (C)   Members of boards and commissions which set tax rates, have
procurement authority, or vote to adopt budgets.
   (D)   The financial disclosure statement should be filed annually with the
City Ethics Commission by all filers who are subject to the jurisdiction of the
Commission.  Failure to do so will result in a fine of $100.00.
   (E)   Any officer or employee, or any member of his immediate family, of the
city government who shall have any private financial interest, directly or
indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within any department
or agency of the city government shall disclose such private interest to the
local ethics commission.
   (F)   If the Mayor, City Council Member, or City Attorney has a private
interest in any matter pending before city council, he shall disclose such
private interest on the records of the Council and shall disqualify himself
from participating in any decision or vote relating thereto.
   (G)   Any elected official of an independent agency or special district to
which this chapter applies who shall have any private financial interest,
directly or indirectly, in any contract or matter pending before or within such
independent agency or special district shall disclose such private interest to
the governing body of such agency or district.
(Ord. 9-94, passed 12-5-94)
§ 36.11  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENTS.
   Failure to comply with this section shall carry a penalty of $100.00 per
violation.
(Ord. 9-94, passed 12-5-94)
Nepotism
§ 36.20  NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No city government officer shall act in his official capacity to hire
or cause to be hired any member of his immediately family at an hourly pay rate
or with benefits in excess of any other employee with similar job duties,
responsibilities, and qualification requirements.
   (B)   No officer shall exercise contract management authority where any
member of the immediate family of the official or employee is employed by or
has contracts with persons doing city government work over which the official
or employee has or exercises contract management authority.
(Ord. 9-94, passed 12-5-94)
City Ethics Commission
§ 36.30  CITY ETHICS COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   A city ethics commission is hereby created which shall have the powers
to enforce all provisions of the code of ethics.
   (B)   The commission shall be established by entering in agreement with the
Cumberland Valley Area Development District which will create a regional ethics
board.
(Ord. 9-94, passed 12-5-94)
   Statutory reference:
      Codes of ethics for city officials and employees, see KRS 65.003
CHAPTER 37:  HUMAN RESOURCES
   Section
   
37.01   Policies and procedures, classification plan, and compensation plan
   
37.02   County Employees Retirement System
§ 37.01  POLICIES AND PROCEDURES, CLASSIFICATION PLAN, AND COMPENSATION PLAN
ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city an employment system, including policies
and procedures, classification plan, and compensation plan.  A copy of this
system and amendments thereto are hereby incorporated by reference as if fully
set out herein; copies are on file for inspection at the Office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer during normal business hours.
(Ord. 2-97, passed 3-3-97; Am. Ord. 2-99, passed 2-26-99; Am. Ord. 5-99, passed
9-17-99; Am. Ord. 2-2000, passed 4-3-00; Am. Ord. 3-2000, passed 5-1-00; Am.
Ord. 1-2001, passed 5-7-01; Am. Ord. 12-2003, passed 12-8-03; Am. Ord. 2004-5,
passed 10-4-04; Am. Ord. 2008-1, passed 5-19-08; Am. Ord. 2009-1, passed 3-16-
09; Am. Ord. 2012-2, passed 6-18-12)
   Statutory reference:
      See KRS 83A.070(3) and KRS 83A.080
§ 37.02  COUNTY EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   All eligible regular full-time officers and employees of the city are
authorized to participate in the County Employees Retirement System effective
August 1, 1996, pursuant to KRS 78.510 to 78.990.
(Ord. 5-96, passed 7-1-96)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WASTEWATER TREATMENT
      
53.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50:  WATER
   Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Statement of purpose
   
50.002   Definitions
Monthly Water Charges
   
50.015   Minimum monthly water bill for residents of the city
   
50.016   Monthly water rates for residents of the city
   
50.017   Minimum monthly water bill for non-resident water customers
   
50.018   Monthly water rates for non-resident water customers
   
50.019   Monthly water rates for wholesale water customers
   
50.020   Monthly water rate for fire protection services
   
50.021   Collected revenues
Connection and Collection Charges
   
50.035   Water system customers
   
50.036   Water systems and water main extensions
   
50.037   Owner-made connection
   
50.038   City-made connection
Rights on Payment of Connection Charges
   
50.055   Entitlement and responsibility
   
50.056   Connection to municipal water system
Fees, Charges and Billing Procedures
   
50.070   Effective date for water charges
   
50.071   Rates are exclusive of sales tax
   
50.072   Meters
   
50.073   Deposit
   
50.074   Owners pay connection charges and occupants pay monthly rates
   
50.075   Revisions of rates
   
50.076   Billing, collections and penalties
   
50.077   Delinquency and disconnection and reconnection of water service
Records and Audits
   
50.090   Collection of deposits recorded
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish user charges in the city to
provide funds needed to pay for the operation, maintenance and replacement
(OM&R) and debt service expenses associated with the city’s municipal water
system.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "COMMERCIAL USER."  All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings,
laundries, and other private business and service establishments including
Institutional Users and Government Users.
   "DEBT SERVICE."  The charges levied on users of the city’ municipal water
system to support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
   "GOVERNMENTAL USER."  Legislative, judicial, administrative, and regulatory
activities of federal, state and local governments.  All Governmental Users
will be classified as Commercial Users under this chapter.
   "INDUSTRIAL USER."  Any company to the city’s municipal water system that
manufactures products for use or consumption or is considered part of the
manufacturer’s operation.
   "INSTITUTIONAL USER."  Social, charitable, religious, and educational
activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, penal
institutions and similar institutional users.  All Institutional Users will be
classified as Commercial Users under this chapter.
   "NON-RESIDENT."  Any person, residential user, commercial user, industrial
user, institutional user or governmental user of the city’s municipal water
system that resides or is headquartered outside the city limits of Mt. Vernon,
Kentucky.
   "OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE."  Functions that result in expenditures during
the useful life of the municipal water system for materials, labor, utilities
and other items which are necessary for managing and for which such works were
designed and constructed.  The term operation and maintenance" includes
replacement as defined below.
   "REPLACEMENT." Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
municipal water system to maintain the capacity and performance for which the
system was designed and constructed.
   "RESIDENT." Any person, residential user, commercial user, industrial user,
institutional user or governmental user of the city’s  municipal water system
that resides or is headquartered within the city limits.
   "RESIDENTIAL USER."  Any customer to the city’s municipal water system whose
lot, parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   "SHALL."  Is mandatory; MAY" is permissive.
   "USER CHARGE."  The total service charge which is levied for the cost of
operation, maintenance, replacement and debt service expenses of the city’s
municipal water system.
   "WATER METER."  A device approved by the city used for measuring and
recording the volume of water.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
MONTHLY WATER CHARGES
   The charges for water service furnished by the city are hereby fixed and
established on a monthly basis as follows:
§ 50.015  MINIMUM MONTHLY WATER BILL FOR RESIDENTS OF THE CITY.
   The minimum monthly bill for water service to residents of the city, which
minimum bill entitles each customer to zero (0) gallons of water each month for
such minimum charge, shall be nine dollars and fifty-seven cents ($9.57).
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98; Am. Ord. 11-2003,
passed 2-2-04; Am. Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-3-05; Am. Ord. 05-07, passed 10-3-05;
Am. Ord. 08-10, passed 12-18-08; Am. Ord. 2012-1, passed 2-27-12)
§ 50.016  MONTHLY WATER RATES FOR RESIDENTS OF THE CITY.
   (A)   The following monthly rates for water service for all resident water
customers of the city’s municipal water system shall be based on the customer’s
monthly water consumption and shall take into account:
      (1)   The operation, maintenance and replacement costs of the municipal
water system; and
      (2)   The debt service requirements of bonds and loans issued on behalf
of the city’s municipal water system.
   (B)   The monthly water rates for residents of the city are as follows:
 
                        Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 8,000 gallons     $3.77
Next 40,000             $3.73
All over 48,000 gallons $3.65
 
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98; Am. Ord. 11-2003,
passed 2-2-04; Am. Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-3-05; Am. Ord. 05-07, passed 10-3-05;
Am. Ord. 08-10, passed 12-18-08; Am. Ord. 2012-1, passed 2-27-12)
§ 50.017  MINIMUM MONTHLY WATER BILL FOR NON-RESIDENT WATER CUSTOMERS.
   The minimum monthly bill for non-resident water customers of the city’s
municipal water system, which minimum monthly bill entitles each customer to
zero (0) gallons of water each month for such minimum charge, shall be thirteen
dollars and fifty-nine cents ($13.59).
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98; Am. Ord. 11-2003,
passed 2-2-04; Am. Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-3-05; Am. Ord. 05-07, passed 10-3-05;
Am. Ord. 08-10, passed 12-18-08; Am. Ord. 2012-1, passed 2-27-12)
§ 50.018  MONTHLY WATER RATES FOR NON-RESIDENT WATER CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The following monthly rates for water service for all non-resident
water customers of the city’s municipal water system shall be based on the
customer’s monthly water consumption and shall take into account:
      (1)   The operation, maintenance and replacement costs of the municipal
water system;
      (2)   The debt service requirements of bonds and loans issued on behalf
of the city’s municipal water system; and
      (3)   The higher costs of performing maintenance work outside the
boundaries of the city as opposed to maintenance inside the city limits.
   (B)   The monthly water rates for residents outside of the city are as
follows:
 
                        Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 8,000 gallons     $5.28
Next 40,000             $5.22
All over 48,000 gallons $5.10
 
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98; Am. Ord. 11-2003,
passed 2-2-04; Am. Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-3-05; Am. Ord. 05-07, passed 10-3-05;
Am. Ord. 08-10, passed 12-18-08; Am. Ord. 2012-1, passed 2-27-12)
§ 50.019  MONTHLY WATER RATES FOR WHOLESALE WATER CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The following monthly rates for water service for all wholesale water
customers of the city’s municipal water system shall be based on the customer’s
monthly water consumption and shall take into account:
      (1)   The operation, maintenance and replacement costs of the municipal
water system;
      (2)   The debt service requirements of bonds and loans issued on behalf
of the city’s municipal water system; and
      (3)   The higher costs of performing maintenance work outside the
boundaries of the city as opposed to maintenance inside the city limits.
   (B)   The monthly water rates for wholesale water customers are as follows,
on approval by PSC:
 
                   Rate per 1,000 gallons
All over 0 gallons $2.93
 
(Ord. 2004-2, passed  - - ; Am. Ord. 2005-7, passed 10-3-05; Am. Ord. 2012-1,
passed 2-27-12)
§ 50.020  MONTHLY WATER RATE FOR FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES.
   (A)   The following monthly rates for the fire protections services for all
water customers of the city’s municipal water system shall be based on the
customer’s fire protection pipe size and shall take into account: the fire
protection service is to provide for the cost to pay for the investment in the
construction of the system to provide for sufficient water volumes and fire
connections to provide water for use in manual or automatic fire suppression
systems.
   (B)   The monthly water rates for customer-owned fire protection systems of
the city are as follows:
      (1)   Dedicated fire protection lines connected to the city’s system
shall pay a monthly fee of two dollars ($2.00) per inch diameter nominal pipe
size per month.
      (2)   Fire hydrants located on dedicated fire protection lines shall pay
a fee of seven dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) per hydrant per month.
(Ord. 11-2003, passed 2-2-04)
§ 50.021  COLLECTED REVENUES.
   (A)   Collection deposits.  All revenues collected, as a result of the user
charges levied, shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing OM&R and debt
service fund known as the Cash/Water and Sewer Revenue" fund.
   (B)   Transfer of funds.  Revenues deposited in the Cash/Water and Sewer
Revenue" fund shall be transferred as-needed to the separate and individual 
accounts  established  for the city’s municipal water system  for the various
functions including operation and maintenance, replacement and debt service. 
No revenues collected by the city’s municipal water system shall be deposited
in the accounts for the city’s municipal sewer system.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
CONNECTION AND CONNECTION CHARGES
§ 50.035  WATER SYSTEM CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   All new customer's of the city's municipal water system, upon
presentation of a permit issued by the Rockcastle County Health Department for
the installation of a water service, shall pay a connection charge of Three
Hundred Fifty Dollars ($350.00) for a three-fourths (3/4) inch water meter set
in accordance with §
50.055 of this  chapter plus all additional labor and material costs required
for borings of any type, rock removal, and the removal and replacement of
asphalt, concrete or materials other than earth encountered in the installation
of the water meter. 
   (B)   All customers requiring a larger water meter shall pay the connection
charge for a three-fourths (3/4) inch water meter, as set forth above, plus the
additional costs incurred by the city for the larger water meter and materials
used for the installation.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.036  WATER SYSTEMS AND WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The owner of a water distribution system, including any applicant
agreeing to install at their expense a main extension to the city's municipal
water system, shall make written application for a permit to connect to the
city's municipal water system as set forth in the city's Ordinance No. 2-93. 
   (B)   The permit application shall be accompanied by an inspection fee of
Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) plus all reasonable costs incurred by the city to
provide the permit and to perform the inspection(s).
   (C)   In addition, the water distribution system and any water main
extension shall be connected to the city's municipal water system according to
one of the methods set forth below.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.037  OWNER-MADE CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner of any water distribution system, including any water main
extension, that has received a permit from the city for the connection  to 
the  city's  municipal  water  system, as set forth in §
50.036 above, can make the required connection under the supervision of the
Superintendent, if approved in writing by the city.
   (B)   The connection charge for connecting the water distribution system and
any water main extension to the city's municipal water system shall be waived
when the connection is made by the owner at the owner's expense if the owner
installs materials approved by the city throughout the water distribution
system and the water main extension.
   (C)   All water distribution systems and water main extensions, except for
any water distribution system  of  a  water  district,  water association,
etc., authorized by the Public Service Commission to distribute water to their
own customers, connected to the city's municipal water system shall become the
property of the city immediately following a one (1) year period of time, that
one (1) year period beginning on the date the extension was put into service.
This shall be the case whether or not the owner enjoyed a one (1) year warranty
period from the person, persons, or firm responsible for construction of the
extension.  The extension shall be built according to specifications of the
city if it is to become the property of the city.  The city, is in no way,
required to accept and own extensions not built according to their
specifications.  During the one (1) year warranty period, the owner shall
operate and maintain the extension, being ultimately responsible for repairs
whether or not the extension is under a builder's warranty.
   (D)   No services shall be connected to the water distribution system and
any water main extension until they have been connected to the city's municipal
water system.  Once this has occurred and the water distribution system and any
water main extension belong to the city, service connections may be made as set
forth under this chapter.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.038  CITY-MADE CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner of a water distribution system and/or any water main
extension that has received a permit from the city for the connection to the
city's municipal water system, as set forth in §
50.036 above, shall pay a connection charge to the city's municipal water
system of Three Hundred Fifty Dollars ($350.00) for a three-fourth (3/4) inch
water meter set by the city in accordance with §
50.055 of this chapter plus all additional labor and material costs required
for borings of any type, rock removal, and the removal and replacement of
asphalt, concrete or materials other than earth encountered in the installation
of the water meter.
   (B)   All customers requiring a larger water meter shall pay the connection
charge for a three-fourths (3/4) inch water meter, as set forth above, plus the
additional material costs incurred by the city for the larger water meter and
materials used for the installation.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
RIGHTS ON PAYMENT OF CONNECTION CHARGES
§ 50.055  ENTITLEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The payment of a connection charge by a property owner entitles the
owner of such property to have the water line brought to a point in the edge of
their property or easement.
   (B)   Each customer must bear the cost of running their water line from the
building located on their premises to the point at their property line or
easement or such other point as such water line has been brought by the city to
serve their premises.
   (C)   Each property owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the construction of a water
line from the respective premises to the point or points where the city has
brought such water line or lines, and all water connections shall be made under
the supervision of the Superintendent of the city's Water Department
(hereinafter referred to as Superintendent).
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.056  CONNECTION TO MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   All property owners in the city who apply for water service and who
tender the applicable connection charge or charges, shall be entitled with
reference to any premises abutting on any street, road, alley, public way or
easement to which there exists, within fifty (50) feet of the property line or
easement of such owner, a water line or main, to have such water line or main
brought, by average depth, to a point located at the edge of the owner's
property line or easement; or if the owner's property line or easement is
located more than fifty (50) feet therefrom or requires that a line or lines be
laid more than average depth in order to serve their premises, the owner may be
entitled to the same privilege by paying the additional cost of bringing said
line or lines the additional distance, in excess of fifty (50) feet, to their
property line or easement, and by paying the additional cost, if any, of laying
such line or lines deeper than average depth.
   (B)   The payment of the applicable water connection charge entitles the
applicant to the following:
      (1)   A tap at the water main.
      (2)   No more than fifty (50) feet of three-fourth (3/4) inch conduit
laid in an open-cut trench dug in earth that extends from the city's water main
to a point one (1) foot from the applicant's property line.
      (3)   A complete meter installation to be installed at the point of
ending of the conduit, which meter installation will consist of a water meter,
yoke, or other setting used, a meter box, a meter box cover, a shut off valve
and a brass nipple.
   (C)   The water connection charge is a tap-in or service charge for the
privilege of connecting to the municipal water system of the city, and the
payment of such amount does not constitute the purchase of a water meter. 
   (D)   Title to water meters shall at all times remain vested in the city,
and, if a meter is not used by an applicant, such meter may be removed by the
city as needed.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
FEES, CHARGES AND BILLING PROCEDURES
§ 50.070  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Effective date.  The foregoing water rates and charges shall be
effective as to existing water customers of the city's municipal water system
for the next monthly billing beginning immediately after January 5, 1998, and
shall be effective as to the respective premises of new  water  customers 
beginning  on  the  date  on  which each customer connects their premises to
the water line made available to such premises.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.071  RATES ARE EXCLUSIVE OF SALES TAX.
   The foregoing rates are rates to be charged by the city, and any applicable
state sales tax shall be added to each bill as a separate charge.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.072  METERS.
   (A)   All customers metered - no free service. 
      (1)   It shall be mandatory for all customers of the city's municipal
water system to be metered. 
      (2)   No customer will receive or be entitled to free water without
paying the full rates herein specified, unless waived in writing by the city.
   (B)   Meters read monthly. 
      (1)   Water meters shall be read monthly commencing on the fifteenth day
of each calendar month or as soon thereafter as weather and other conditions
and circumstances may reasonably permit, and such readings will continue as
expeditiously as possible until all of the water meters have been read.
      (2)   In the event that upon the occasion of a monthly reading, it is
found that the water meter of a customer is defective or non-operative, the
water bill of such customer shall be computed on the basis of the average
monthly water consumption of such customer shown by the three (3) preceding
monthly water meter readings, provided that if no such readings are then
available, the applicable water bill may be computed on the basis of an
estimate of water consumption made by the Superintendent, subject to adjustment
upward or downward according to the average of the next three (3) succeeding
monthly water meter readings.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.073  DEPOSIT.
   (A)   A deposit shall be required of all applicants for water service.
   (B)   The deposit for both residents and non-residents of the city applying
for water service to the city's municipal water system are as follows:
 
SIZE OF CONNECTION AMOUNT OF DEPOSIT REQUIRED
3/4-inch           $ 50.00
1-inch             $ 60.00
1-1/2-inch         $ 80.00
2-inch             $100.00
3-inch             $160.00
 
   (C)   The applicable deposit shall be paid to the city by any applicant
before such applicant shall be entitled to such service.
   (D)   The deposit, less any unpaid charges, will be refunded to the customer
or to their heirs or assigns whenever service is terminated.
   (E)   In the event the customer relocates and requests that their service be
transferred to the new location, the customer shall pay to the city a fee of
Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) for the transfer of the service.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.074  OWNERS PAY CONNECTION CHARGES AND OCCUPANTS PAY MONTHLY RATES.
   (A)   Connection charges shall be the personal obligation of the owners of
the property. 
   (1)   All water rates and charges, other than connection charges, shall be
the primary obligation of the occupant of the lot, property or building
receiving the benefits of such use and service, but the city shall have a lien
on the property served to secure the payment of said charges. 
   (2)   The satisfaction of the liability by any party shall be a discharge of
the liability for which the payment is made.
   (B)   Multiple users. 
   (1)   Where two or more tenants or occupants (of different rental units) of
property are served by a single water meter, the water rates and charges shall
be the personal obligation, collectible by law, of  the person  or  persons 
who  apply  for  such  service  and,  where applicable, make the required
deposit. 
   (2)   Each of the occupants shall be billed his proportionate  (to the
number of users and not to the quantity used) share of the water charges
applicable to such property, and each shall constitute a separate user and be
billed accordingly, and in any event, not less than the minimum rates herein
prescribed.
   (3)   The computation of water consumption above the amount allowed in the
minimum bill to such water users shall be made the same as if only one customer
occupied the entire property; provided, however, that upon the filing of an
application for a separate water meter and upon payment of the applicable fee
and deposit therefor, the city shall install a separate water meter for such
applicant, in which event such applicant will be billed at the water rates
applicable to the usage of water service recorded by such separate water
meter. 
   (4)   Under no circumstances shall two (2) or more separate dwellings be
served by a single water meter.  This shall be the case whether or not the
dwellings are owned by the same person, persons, or organization.  This
restriction shall become effective January 5, 1998.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.075  REVISIONS OF RATES.
   The schedule of rates and user charges prescribed in this chapter shall be
reviewed not less often than annually by the city or its designee and shall be
adjusted, when necessary, to meet the actual OM&R costs and debt service
obligations of the city's municipal water system in order to produce income and
revenues from the municipal water system, adequate to comply with such
covenants and agreements made by the city in connection with any revenue bonds
and loan agreements.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.076  BILLING, COLLECTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The rates or charges aforesaid shall be billed monthly on or about the
first day of each month, and all bills for such service shall be considered due
and payable twenty (20) days after issuance.  The charges for sewer service
will be included on the customer's water bill.
   (B)   If a bill is not paid as aforesaid within said twenty (20) day period,
such bill shall be deemed delinquent, and there shall be imposed a penalty on
each bill not so paid, in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the charges
(other than sales tax) shown on the face amount of said bill not so paid.
   (C)   If said bill is not paid within the first twenty-five (25) days after
becoming delinquent (forty-five (45) days after issuance), the City Attorney is
hereby authorized and directed to enforce and collect any such delinquent
charges.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
§ 50.077  DELINQUENCY AND DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   If a bill for water system service is not paid after remaining
delinquent for twenty-five (25) days (forty-five (45) days after issuance), the
Superintendent will turn off the water of such delinquent customer and may
further enjoin the use of the water facilities of the city by said customer
until payment in full is made.
   (1)   If any deadline date herein specified falls on a Sunday or on a legal
holiday, such deadline shall not expire until the end of the next secular day
thereafter.
   (2)   If such water service is disconnected by the city, reconnection of
such service shall not be made until the customer, user or owner pays all
charges and penalties owed plus the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) as a
disconnection and reconnection charge.
   (B)   The foregoing provisions are intended to and shall apply regardless of
the availability of any initial deposit required by this chapter.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
RECORDS AND AUDITS
§ 50.090  COLLECTION OF DEPOSITS RECORDED.
   (A)   The rates, rentals and charges for the use of any services rendered by
the city's municipal water system shall be billed and collected by the city,
and the full amount of the proceeds shall be deposited as received and set into
the "Cash/Water and Sewer Revenue" fund. 
   (B)   The records of the city with respect to charging, billing, collecting
and accounting for water service shall be audited at least once each year by an
Independent Certified Public Accountant, and a report shall be filed with the
City Clerk, or such report shall be filed in such manner and at such other time
or times as may be stipulated in any ordinance relating to the issuance of
Revenue Bonds.
   (C)   The cost of such audit shall be classified and paid as an expense of
operation and maintenance of the city's municipal water system.
(Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 10-97, passed 1-5-98)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWERS
   Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Statement of purpose
   
51.002   Definitions
Monthly Sewer Charges
   
51.015   Fixed sewer charges
   
51.016   Resident sewer customers
   
51.017   Non-resident sewer customers
   
51.018   Renfro Valley Revitalization Expansion Service Area surcharge
   
51.019   Industrial Park Revitalization Expansion Service Area
   
51.020   Water treatment and distribution system to pay annual debt service
charges to sewer system
   
51.021   Collected revenues
Connection and Connection Charges
   
51.035   Sewer system customers
   
51.036   Sewer systems and sewer main extensions
   
51.037   Owner-made connection
   
51.038   City-made connection
Rights on Payment of Connection Charges
   
51.055   Entitlement and responsibility
   
51.056   Connection to municipal sewer system
Fees, Charges and Billing Procedures
   
51.070   Effective date for sewer charges
   
51.071   Meters
   
51.072   Deposit
   
51.073   Owners pay connection charges and occupants pay monthly rates
   
51.074   Revisions of rates
   
51.075   Special rates
   
51.076   Billing, collections and penalties
   
51.077   Delinquency and disconnection and reconnection of water service
Records and Audits
   
51.090   Collection of deposits recorded
Notification
   
51.110   Notice to sewer system users
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish user charges in the city to
provide funds needed to pay for the operation, maintenance and replacement
(OM&R) and debt service expenses associated with the city's municipal sewer
system.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ADMINISTRATIVE FEE."  A loan servicing fee of two-tenths of one percent of
the annual outstanding loan balance payable to the Kentucky Infrastructure
Authority as a part of each interest payment.
   "BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD)."  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at 20 degrees Celsius expressed in terms of weight and
concentration in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   "COMMERCIAL USER."  All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings,
laundries, and other private business and service establishments including
Institutional Users and Government Users.
   "DEBT SERVICE."  The charges levied on users of the city's municipal water
system to support the annual debt service obligations of the system.
   "GOVERNMENTAL USER."  Legislative, judicial, administrative, and regulatory
activities of federal, state and local governments.  All Governmental Users
will be classified as Commercial Users under this chapter.
   "INDUSTRIAL USER."  Any company to the city's municipal water system that
manufactures products for use or consumption or is considered part of the
manufacturer's operation.
   "INSTITUTIONAL USER."  Social, charitable, religious, and educational
activities such as schools, churches, hospitals, nursing homes, penal
institutions and similar institutional users.  All Institutional Users will be
classified as Commercial Users under this chapter.
   "NON-RESIDENT."  Any person, residential user, commercial user, industrial
user, institutional user or governmental user of the city's municipal sewer
system that resides or is headquartered outside the city limits of Mt. Vernon,
Kentucky.
   "NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER."  The water-carried wastes produced from
noncommercial and nonindustrial activities and which result from normal human
living processes.
   "OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE."  Functions that result in expenditures during
the useful life of the municipal water system for materials, labor, utilities
and other items which are necessary for managing and for which such works were
designed and constructed.  The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement as defined below.
   "REPLACEMENT."  Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of 
the  municipal water system to maintain the capacity and performance for which
the system was designed and constructed.
   "RESIDENT."  Any person, residential user, commercial user, industrial user,
institutional user or governmental user of the city's  municipal sewer system
that resides or is headquartered within the city limits.
   "RESIDENTIAL USER."  Any customer to the city's municipal sewer system whose
lot, parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   "SHALL."  Is mandatory; "MAY" is permissive.
   "SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS)."  Suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater".
   "TREATMENT WORKS."  A treatment works as defined by Section 212 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as
amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et. seq. which is owned in this instance by the City
of Mt. Vernon, Kentucky (City).  This definition includes any sewers that
convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant, but does not include pipes,
sewers, or other conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. 
For the purpose of this Ordinance, "POTW" shall include any sewers that convey
wastewater to the POTW from persons outside the City who are, by contract or
agreement with the City, users of the City's POTW.
   "USEFUL LIFE."  The number of years from the date the treatment works begins
to operate for its intended function until the time when it can no longer be
operated or used for its intended function.
   "USER CHARGE."  The total service charge which is levied for the cost of
operation, maintenance, replacement and debt service expenses of the city's
municipal sewer system.
   "WATER METER."  A device approved by the city used for measuring and
recording a volume of water.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
MONTHLY SEWER CHARGES
§ 51.015  FIXED SEWER CHARGES.
   The charges for sewer service furnished by the city are hereby fixed and
established on a monthly basis as follows:
   (A)   Monthly sewer charges.
   (B)   Regular monthly sewer bill.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.016  RESIDENT SEWER CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The following monthly rates for sewer service for all resident sewer
customers of the city's municipal sewer system shall be based on the customer's
monthly water consumption or measured flow to the municipal sewer system and
will take into account:
   (1)   The OM&R costs of the municipal sewer system; and
   (2)   The debt service requirements of bonds and loans issued on behalf of
the city's municipal sewer system:
      (a)   Minimum Bill - First 2,000 gallons or less
         - OM&R      $7.30
         - Debt Service      $1.90
      (b)   All over 2,000 gallons
         - OM&R      $3.50 per 1,000 gallons
         - Debt Service      $0.00 per 1,000 gallons
      (c)   The monthly sewer rates for low income single family  residential
customers using 6,000 gallons of water or less shall be billed at a rate of
fifteen percent (15%) less than the above rates.  "Low Income Single Family
Residential Customer" is defined as any residence with a household income below
the federal poverty level or any residence designated as low income under
Kentucky law.
   (B)   All non-residential sewer customers located in the Renfro Valley
Revitalization and Expansion Service Area and the Industrial Park
Revitalization and Expansion Service Area shall pay in addition to the regular
monthly sewer bill, a surcharge as set forth in §
50.018  and  §
50.019.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.017  NON-RESIDENT SEWER CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   The  following  monthly  rates  for sewer service for all non-resident
sewer customers of the City's municipal sewer system shall be based on the
customer's monthly water consumption or measured flow to the municipal sewer
system and will take into account: 
      (1)   The OM&R costs of the municipal sewer system; and
      (2)   The debt service requirements of bonds and loans issued on behalf
of the City's municipal sewer system:
         (a)   Minimum Bill - First 2,000 gallons or less
            - OM&R      $10.95
            - Debt Service      $2.85
         (b)   All over 2,000 gallons
            - OM&R      $5.25 per 1,000 gallons
            - Debt Service      $0.00 per 1,000 gallons
         (c)   The monthly sewer rates for low income single family residential
customers using 6,000 gallons of water or less shall be billed at a rate of
fifteen (15%) percent less than the above rates.  "Low Income Single Family
Residential Customer" is defined as any residence with a household income below
the Federal poverty level or any residence designated as low income under
Kentucky law.
   (B)   All non-residential sewer customers located in the Renfro Valley
Revitalization and Expansion Service Area and the Industrial Park
Revitalization and Expansion Service Area shall pay in addition to the regular
monthly sewer bill, a Surcharge as set forth in §
51.018.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.018  RENFRO VALLEY REVITALIZATION EXPANSION SERVICE AREA SURCHARGE.
   (A)   All non-residential sewer customers located in the Renfro Valley
Revitalization Expansion Service Area shall pay, in addition to the above OM&R
and debt service sewer charges, a surcharge for the total debt service
requirements, including the servicing fee and the replacement and maintenance
reserve, for the Kentucky Infrastructure Authority (KIA) loan issued in 1991
for the Renfro Valley Revitalization and Expansion Service Area.
   (B)   The surcharge will be allocated based on the water usage for the non-
residential sewer customers in the Renfro Valley Service Area as follows:
   S = [V u /V t ] x [DS/12]
   Where:
   S=Monthly surcharge per non-residential customer
   Vu=Monthly water usage per non-residential customer
   (minimum 2,000 gallons)
   Vt=Total monthly water usage from all non-residential customers
   DS=Debt Service on 1991 KIA Loan
   (C)   The monthly surcharge calculated will be added to the regular monthly
sewer bill issued by the city for each non-residential sewer customer in the
Renfro Valley Revitalization and Expansion Service Area.
   (D)   All  revenues collected will be deposited into the "Cash/Water and 
Sewer  Revenue"  fund.  There  will  be  transferred  from  such "Cash/Water
and Sewer Revenue" fund into the "Revolving Loan Fund" account and the
"Replacement" account the respective surcharge portion of the monthly sewer
bill.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.019  INDUSTRIAL PARK REVITALIZATION EXPANSION SERVICE AREA.
   (A)   All non-residential sewer customers located in the Industrial Park
Revitalization Expansion Service Area will pay, in addition to the above OM&R
and debt service sewer charges, a surcharge for the total debt service
requirements including the servicing fee for a portion of the 1997 Kentucky
Infrastructure Authority (KIA) loan and the replacement and maintenance reserve
required by the loan agreement for the upgrade of the Industrial Park pumping
station. 
   (B)   The amount allocated to all non-residential sewer customers located in
the Industrial Park Revitalization Expansion Service Area will be $203,500.00 .
   (C)   In addition, one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) of the
required replacement and maintenance reserve will be allocated to all non-
residential sewer customers located in the Industrial Park Revitalization
Expansion Service Area. 
   (D)   The surcharge will be allocated based on the water usage for the non-
residential sewer customers in the Industrial Park Revitalization Expansion
Service Area as follows:
   S = [V u /V t ] x [DS/12]
   Where:
   S=Monthly surcharge per non-residential customer
   Vu=Monthly water usage per non-residential customer
   (minimum 2,000 gallons)
   Vt=Total monthly water usage from all non-residential customers
   DS=Debt Service on 1991 KIA Loan
   (E)   The monthly surcharge calculated shall be added to the regular monthly
sewer bill issued by the city for each non-residential sewer customer in the
Industrial Park Revitalization and Expansion Service Area.
   (F)   All revenues collected will be deposited into the "Cash/Water and
Sewer Revenue" fund.  There will be transferred from such "Cash/Water and Sewer
Revenue" fund into the "Revolving Loan Fund" account and the "Replacement"
account the respective surcharge portion of the monthly sewer bill.  (Ord. 6-
97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.020  WATER TREATMENT AND DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM TO PAY ANNUAL DEBT SERVICE
CHANGES TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The City-owned Water Treatment and Distribution System will pay the
annual debt service charges and Administrative Fee to the City's municipal
sewer system for the improvements made at the Water Treatment Plant.  The
improvements include the installation of a lagoon for the backwash water being
discharged and the new outfall pipe line for the backwash water discharge to
the stream. 
   (B)   The improvements will be funded by an estimated principal amount of
$105,900.00 from the proceeds of the 1997 Kentucky Infrastructure Authority
(KIA) loan at an anticipated 1.80% interest rate over a twenty-year payback
period.
   (C)   An administrative Fee of 0.20% of the unpaid principal amount is also
required to be paid annually.
§ 51.021  COLLECTED REVENUES.
   (A)   Collection deposits.  All revenues collected, as a result of the user
charges levied, shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing OM&R and debt
service fund known as the "Cash/Water and Sewer Revenue" fund.
(Ord. 2-96, passed 7-1-96)
   (B)   Transfer of funds. 
   (1)   Revenues deposited in the "Cash/Water and Sewer Revenue" fund shall be
transferred as-needed to the separate and individual accounts established for
the city's municipal sewer system for the various functions including operation
and maintenance, replacement and debt service. 
   (2)   No revenues collected by the city's municipal sewer system shall be
deposited in the accounts for the city's municipal water system.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
CONNECTION AND CONNECTION CHARGES
§ 51.035  SEWER SYSTEM CUSTOMERS.
   All new customers to the city's municipal sewer system shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city before they are allowed to
connect to the city's municipal sewer system and pay a connection charge of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) and an inspection fee of thirty-five dollars ($35.00)
for a class 1 residential permit or two hundred dollars ($200.00) and an
inspection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a class 2 commercial and/or
industrial permit at the time the application is filed plus all additional
labor and material costs required for borings of any type, rock removal, and
removal and replacement of asphalt, concrete or materials other than earth
encountered in the installation of the connection to the city's municipal sewer
system.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 51.036  SEWER SYSTEMS AND SEWER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   The owner of a sanitary sewer collection system, including any applicant
agreeing to install at their expense a main extension to the city's municipal
sewer system, shall make written application for a permit to connect to the
city's municipal sewer system as set forth in the city's Code of Ordinances. 
The permit application shall be accompanied by an inspection fee of two hundred
dollars ($200.00) plus all reasonable costs incurred by the city to provide the
permit and to perform the inspection(s).  In addition, the sanitary sewer
collection system and any sewer main extension  shall  be  connected  to  the 
city's  municipal sewer system according to one of the methods set forth in §
50.037 and §
50.038.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 51.037  OWNER-MADE CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner of any sanitary sewer collection system, including any sewer
main extension, that has received a permit from the city for the  connection 
to  the  city's municipal sewer system, as set forth in §
51.036 above, can make the required connection under the supervision of the
Superintendent, if approved in writing by the city.
   (B)   The connection charge for connecting the sanitary sewer collection
system and any sewer main extension to the city's municipal sewer system shall
be waived when the connection is made by the owner at the owner's expense if
the owner installs materials approved by the city throughout the sanitary sewer
collection system and the sewer main extension.
   (C)   All sewage collection systems and sewer main extensions connected to
the city's municipal sewer system shall become the property of the city
immediately following the connection to the city's municipal sewer system.
   (D)   No services shall be connected to the sanitary sewer collection system
and any sewer main extension until they have been connected to the city's
municipal sewer system.  Once this has occurred and the sanitary sewer
collection system and/or any sewer main extension belongs to the city, service
connections may be made as set forth under this chapter.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 51.038  CITY-MADE CONNECTION.
   The owner of a sanitary sewer collection system and/or any sanitary sewer
main extension that has received a permit from the city for the connection  to 
the city's  municipal  sewer  system,  as set forth in §
51.036 above, shall pay a connection charge to the city's municipal sewer
system of Two Hundred Thirty-Five Dollars ($235.00) for the connection
installed by the city in accordance with §
51.055 of this chapter plus all additional labor and material costs required
for borings of any type, rock removal, and the removal and replacement of
asphalt, concrete or materials other than earth encountered by the city in the
installation of the sewer connection.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
RIGHTS ON PAYMENT OF CONNECTION CHARGES
§ 51.055  ENTITLEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The payment of a connection charge by a property owner entitles the
owner of such property to have the sewer line brought to a point in the edge of
their property or easement.
   (B)   Each customer must bear the cost of running their sewer line from the
building located on their premises to the point at their property line or
easement or such other point as the sewer line has been brought by the city to
serve their premises.
   (C)   Each property owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the construction of a sewer
line from the respective premises to the point or points where the city has
brought such line or lines, and all sewer connections shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent of the city's Sewer Department (hereinafter
referred to as Superintendent).
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 51.056  CONNECTION TO MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM.
   All property owners in the city who apply for sewer service and who tender
the applicable connection charge or charges, shall be entitled with reference
to any premises abutting on any street, road, alley, public way or easement in
which there exists, within fifty (50) feet of the property line or easement of
such owner, a sewer line, pipe, main, lateral or other structure or
installation of the municipal sewer system capable of receiving flowable
wastes, as the case may be, to have such sewer line or other structure or
installation brought, by average depth, to a point located at the edge of the
owner's property line or easement; or if the owner's property line or easement
is located more than fifty (50) feet therefrom or requires that a line or lines
be laid more than average depth in order to serve their premises, the owner may
be entitled to the same privilege by paying the additional cost of bringing
said line or lines the additional distance, in excess of fifty (50) feet, to
their property line or easement, and by paying the additional cost, if any, of
laying such line or lines deeper than average depth.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
FEES, CHARGES AND BILLING PROCEDURES
§ 51.070  EFFECTIVE DATE FOR SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   The municipal sewer system shall be considered "available" to any
premises which abut upon any street, road, alley, public or private way or
easement in which there exists a sewer pipe, main, lateral or other structure
or installation of the municipal sewer system of the city, capable of receiving
flowable wastes, in which there has been installed or will have been installed
a sewer line to a point located at the edge of the property line or easement of
the owner of such premises.
   (B)   The foregoing sewer rates and charges described in this chapter shall
be effective as to all premises where new sewer lines are made available as
defined above, upon the date of actual connection thereto, or upon a date
ninety (90) days after the Superintendent furnishes notice to such property
owner, either by personal written notice or by notice published in a newspaper
of general circulation throughout Rockcastle County, Kentucky, to the effect
that sewer service is  available to such premises, as defined above, whichever
date is earlier.
   (C)   The foregoing rates are rates to be charged by the city, and any
applicable state sales tax shall be added to each bill as a separate charge.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97; Am. Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.071  METERS.
   (A)   All customers metered - no free service. 
      (1)   It shall be mandatory for all customers of the city's municipal
sewer system to have a water meter or city approved flow measuring device
maintained at the user's expense to determine the amount of the discharge to
the city's municipal sewer system. 
      (2)   In the event that a building or premise discharging sewage, water
or other waste into the city's municipal sewer system uses water supplied on
other than a metered basis from either a private or public water supply, then
in such case, the owner or occupant may be required to cause a flow meter or
other measuring device acceptable to the city to be installed and maintained at
the user's expense to measure the  amount  of the  discharge to the city's
municipal sewer system.  No customer will receive or be entitled to free sewer
service without paying the full rate herein specified, unless waived in writing
by the city.
      (3)   In the event any building or premise uses water in excess of 10,000
gallons per month as shown on the water meter readings for the property for two
(2) consecutive months and it can be shown that a substantial portion of the
water as so measured does not and cannot enter the city's municipal sewer
system, then the city may determine, upon receipt of a written request from the
owner of the property, in such manner as may be found practicable, the amount
of water entering the municipal sewer system, in which event the charge for the
discharge to the city's municipal sewer system shall be based thereon, or the
city may require or permit the installation of additional meters or measuring
devices maintained at the user's expense to determine the quantity of water or
sewerage actually entering the city's municipal sewer system, in which case the
charge for the discharge to the city's municipal sewer system shall be based
thereon.
   (B)   Meters read monthly.
      (1)   Water meters or city approved flow measuring devices shall be read
monthly commencing on the fifteenth day of each calendar month or as soon
thereafter as weather and other conditions and circumstances may reasonably
permit, and such readings will continue as expeditiously  as  possible  until 
all of the water meters and approved  flow measuring devices have been read.   
      (2)   In the event that upon the occasion of a monthly reading, it is
found that the water meter of a customer is defective or non-operative, the
sewer bill of such customer shall be computed on the basis of the average
monthly water consumption of such customer shown by the three (3) preceding
monthly water meter readings, provided that if no such readings are then
available, the applicable sewer bill may be computed on the basis of an
estimate of water consumption made by the Superintendent, subject to adjustment
upward or downward according to the average of the next three (3) succeeding
monthly water meter readings. 
      (3)   If the flow measuring device fails to register for any period, the
amount of sewage discharged will be deemed to be equal to the amount of water
delivered in the corresponding period.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.072  DEPOSIT.
   No deposit shall be required for sewer service.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.073  OWNERS PAY CONNECTION CHARGES AND OCCUPANTS PAY MONTHLY RATES.
   (A)   Connection charges shall be the personal obligation of the owners of
the property. 
      (1)   All sewer rates and charges, other than connection charges, shall
be the primary obligation of the occupant of the lot, property or building
receiving the benefits of such use and service, but the city shall have a lien
on the property served to secure the payment of said charges. 
      (2)   The satisfaction of the liability by any party shall be a discharge
of the liability for which the payment is made.
   (B)   Multiple users.
      (1)   Where two or more tenants or occupants (of different rental units)
of property are served by a single water meter, the sewer rates and charges
shall be the personal obligation, collectible by law, of the person or persons
who apply for such service and, where applicable, make the required deposit. 
      (2)   Each of the occupants shall be billed his proportionate  (to the
number of users and not to the quantity used) share of the sewer charges
applicable to such property, and each shall constitute a separate user and be
billed accordingly, and in any event, not less than the minimum rates herein
prescribed.
      (3)   The computation of water (and sewer) consumption above the amount
allowed in the minimum bill to such sewer users shall be made  the same as if
only one customer occupied the entire property; provided, however, that upon
the filing of an application for a separate water meter  and  upon payment of
the applicable fee and deposit therefor, the city shall install a separate
water meter for such applicant, in which event such applicant will be billed at
the sewer rates applicable to the usage of water recorded by such separate
water meter. 
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.074  REVISIONS OF RATES.
   The schedule of rates and user charges prescribed in this chapter shall be
reviewed not less often than annually by the city or its designee and shall be
adjusted, when necessary, to meet the actual OM&R costs and debt service
obligations of the city's municipal sewer system in order to produce income and
revenues from the municipal sewer system, adequate to comply with such
covenants and agreements made by the city in connection with any revenue bonds
and loan agreements.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.075  SPECIAL RATES.
   (A)   Excessive strength wastewater surcharges. In the event that the
sewage, water or other liquid wastes being discharged into the municipal sewer
system from any premises shall contain unduly high concentrates of any
substances, as defined in chapter 52, then special rates, rentals or charges
may be established, charged and collected as to such building or premises; or
the owner or other interested party may be  required to pretreat such sewage,
water or other liquid waste before  it is discharged into the city's municipal
sewer system.
   (B)   Surcharge rates.  For those users whose wastewater has a greater
strength than normal domestic wastewater, a surcharge in addition to the normal
user charge will be collected.  The following surcharge rates shall apply to
each user of the treatment works that has received permission from the
Superintendent to contribute excessive strength sewage:
               Surcharge Rates 1
   BOD            $ ___________ per pound
   SS            $ ___________ per pound
   Other pollutant (s) [specify]   $ ___________ per pound
   1 Surcharge rates will be established at the time a user is  identified
whose wastewater has a greater strength than normal domestic wastewater as
defined in the City's Sewer Use  Ordinance.
   (C)   Method Billing.  The excessive strength surcharge shall be based on a
formula (see example formula that follows), with the total applied to the
monthly bill of affected users:
      EXAMPLE FORMULA
      [A(F-325)+B(G-325)+C(H-25)+D(I-50)+E(J-*)]x0.00834xK=Surcharge  Payment
($/Month)
      Where formula components are as follows:
         A.   Surcharge rate for BOD, in $/pound.
         B.   Surcharge rate for SS, in $/pound.
         C.   Surcharge rate for Ammonia-Nitrogen, in $/pound.
         D.   Surcharge rate for Oil and Grease, in $/pound.
         E.   Surcharge rate for other pollutant(s), in $/pound.
         F.   User's average BOD concentration, in mg/l.
         G.   User's average SS concentration, in mg/l.
         H.   User's average Ammonia-Nitrogen concentration, in      mg/l.
         I.   User's average Oil and Grease concentration, in mg/l.
         J.   User's average other pollutants' concentration, in  mg/l.
         K.   User's monthly flow to wastewater works, per 1,000    gallons.
   (D)   No reduction in wastewater service charges, fees, or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain wastes discharged to the wastewater
works contain less than 325 mg/l of BOD, 325 mg/l of SS, 25 mg/l of Ammonia-
Nitrogen, 50 mg/l of Oil and Grease, or   *   mg/l of other pollutants.
   *  Concentrations will be established at the time a user is identified whose
wastewater has a greater strength than normal domestic wastewater as defined in
the City's Sewer Use Ordinance.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.076  BILLING, COLLECTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The rates or charges aforesaid shall be billed monthly on or about the
first day of each month, and all bills for such service shall be considered due
and payable twenty (20) days after issuance.  The charges for sewer service
will be included on the customer's water bill.
   (B)   If a bill is not paid as aforesaid within said twenty (20) day period,
such bill shall be deemed delinquent, and there shall be imposed a penalty on
each bill not so paid, in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the charges
(other than sales tax) shown on the face amount of said bill not so paid.
   (C)   If said bill is not paid within the first twenty-five (25) days after
becoming delinquent (forty-five (45) days after issuance), the City Attorney is
hereby authorized and directed to enforce and collect any such delinquent
charges.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
§ 51.077  DELINQUENCY AND DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   If a bill for sewer system service is not paid after remaining
delinquent for twenty-five (25) days (forty-five (45) days after issuance), the
Superintendent will turn off the water of such delinquent customer and may
further enjoin the use of the water facilities of the city by said customer
until payment in full is made.
      (1)   If any deadline date herein specified falls on a Sunday or on a
legal holiday, such deadline shall not expire until the end of the next secular
day thereafter.
      (2)   If such water service is disconnected by the city, reconnection of
such service shall not be made until the customer, user or  owner  pays  all 
charges  and  penalties  owed  plus  the amount of Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00)
as a disconnection and reconnection charge.
   (B)   The foregoing provisions are intended to and shall apply regardless of
the availability of any initial deposit required by this chapter.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
RECORDS AND AUDITS
§ 51.090  COLLECTION OF DEPOSITS RECORDED.
   (A)   The rates, rentals and charges for the use of any services rendered by
the city's municipal sewer system shall be billed and collected by the city,
and the full amount of the proceeds of each service shall be deposited as
received and set into the "Cash/Water and Sewer Revenue" fund. 
   (B)   The records of the city with respect to charging, billing, collecting
and accounting for sewer service shall be audited at least once each year by an
independent Certified Public Accountant, and a report shall be filed with the
City Clerk, or such report shall be filed in such manner and at such other time
or times as may be stipulated in any ordinance relating to the issuance of
Revenue Bonds.
   (C)   The cost of such audit shall be classified and paid as an expense of
operation and maintenance of the city's municipal sewer system.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
NOTIFICATION
§ 51.110  NOTICE TO SEWER SYSTEM USERS.
   The city will annually, in conjunction with the July billing, notify all
customers of the municipal sewer system of the rates and that  portion of the
user charges which are attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(Ord. 6-97, passed 7-14-97)
CHAPTER 52:  WASTEWATER TREATMENT
   Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and Policy
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Abbreviations
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.010   Mandatory sewer connections
   
52.011   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
52.012   Compliance with local, state and federal laws
   
52.013   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewers
   
52.014   Prohibited discharges
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
52.020   Public sewer not available
   
52.021   Requirements for installation
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.030   Permits
   
52.031   Prohibited connections
   
52.032   Design and installations
   
52.033   Inspection
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
52.040   General conditions
   
52.041   Restricted discharges
   
52.042   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
52.043   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.044   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
52.045   Protection from accidental and slug discharges
   
52.046   State requirements
   
52.047   City's right of revision
   
52.048   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
Pretreatment Program Administration
   
52.060   Wastewater discharges
   
52.061   Industrial user discharge permits
   
52.062   Issuances
   
52.063   Permit modifications
   
52.064   Permit conditions
   
52.065   Alternative discharge limits
   
52.066   Permit duration
   
52.067   Permit transfer
   
52.068   Compliance data reporting
   
52.069   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.070   Permit violations
   
52.071   Monitoring
   
52.072   Inspection and sampling
   
52.073   Pretreatment
   
52.074   Annual publication
   
52.075   Significant non-compliance
   
52.076   Confidential information
   
52.077   Signatory requirements
Fees
   
52.090   Purpose
   
52.091   Charges and fees
   
52.092   Delinquent accounts
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
52.100   Right to enter premises
   
52.101   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
52.102   Access to easements
   
52.103   Safety
Enforcement
   
52.110   General
   
52.111   Notice of violation
   
52.112   Administrative orders
   
52.113   Show cause hearing
   
52.114   Additional enforcement remedies
   
52.115   Written notice
Additional Regulations, Prohibitions, and Conditions
   
52.120   Ownership of sewer system
   
52.121   Extensions to sewer system
   
52.122   Inadequate capacity
   
52.123   Building sewer
   
52.124   Supervised taps and connections
   
52.125   Interruption of service
   
52.126   Claims
   
52.127   Water service discontinued
   
52.128   Complaints
   
52.129   Deadlines
 
   
52.999   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable State and Federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general Pretreatment
Regulations (40 CFR, Part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system inadequately treated into
receiving waters so as to cause violations of the city's KPDES permit or the
atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system;
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system;
      (5)   Provide for the safety of the treatment plant employees; and
      (6)   To repeal Ordinance 1-96, passed 7-1-96, in its entirety.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contribution to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the City of Mt. Vernon, Kentucky, and to
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW).  Except as otherwise
provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer, implement and enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.002  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated:
   "ACT" or "THE ACT."  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.
   "APPROVAL AUTHORITY."  The Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet or an authorized representative thereof.
   "AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE."  An authorized representative of a user may be:
      (A)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (B)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively;
      (C)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   An authorized representative of the city may be any person designated by the
city to act on its behalf.
   "BASELINE MONITORING REPORT (BMR)."  A report submitted by categorical
industrial users within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
standard which indicates the compliance status of the user with the applicable
categorical standard (40 CFR  403.12(b)).
   "BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5)."  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at 20o Celsius expressed in terms of weight and concentration in
milligrams per liter (mg/1).
   "BUILDING DRAIN."  That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, water, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning give (5) feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   "BUILDING SEWER."  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal, also called "house connection".
   "BUILDING SEWER PERMIT."  As set forth in "Building Sewers and Connections"
(Article IV).
   "CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER."  An  industrial  user  subject  to 
categorical pretreatment standards (40 CFR, Part 403) which have been
promulgated by EPA.
   "CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS."  National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or Pretreatment Standard.  Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance  with  § 307(b) and (c) 
of the  Act  (33 U.S.C. 1347)  which applies to a specific category of
industrial users.
   "CHAPTER."  This chapter, unless otherwise specified.
   "CITY."  The City of Mt. Vernon, Kentucky, also referred to as "city".
   "CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA)."  (Also known as the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act) enacted by Public Law 92-500, October 18, 1972, 33 USC 1251 et seq: as
amended by PL 95-217, December 28, 1977; PL 97-117, December 29, 1981; PL 97-
440, January 8, 1983, and PL 100-04, February 4, 1987.
   "COMBINED SEWER."  Any conduit designed to carry both sanitary sewage and
storm water or surface water.
   "COMBINED WASTESTREAM FORMULA (CWF)."  Procedure for calculating alternative
discharge limits at industrial facilities where a regulated wastestream is
combined with other non-regulated wastestreams prior to treatment (40 CFR
403.7).
   "COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT."  Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and
fecal coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the
POTW's NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat such pollutants
and, in fact, does treat such pollutants so as to ensure compliance with the
POTW's NPDES/KPDES permit.
   "CONCENTRATION-BASED LIMIT."  A limit based on the relative strength of a
pollutant in a wastestream, usually expressed in mg/l.
   "CONTROL AUTHORITY."  The term "Control Authority" shall refer to the city
when there exists an approved Pretreatment Program under the provisions of 40
CFR 403.11.
   "COOLING WATER."  The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is
heat.
   "DAILY MAXIMUM."  The maximum allowable value for any single observation in
a given day.
   "DILUTE WASTESTREAM."  Boiler blowdown, sanitary wastewater, noncontact
cooling water and certain process wastestreams that have been excluded from
regulation in categorical pretreatment standards because they contain none or
only trace amounts of the regulated pollutant.
   "DIRECT DISCHARGE."  The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "DISCHARGER."  Any person that discharges or causes a discharge to a public
sewer.
   "DOMESTIC WASTEWATER."  The water-carried wastes produced from non-
commercial or non-industrial activities and which result from normal human
living processes.
   "EASEMENT."  An  acquired  legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   "EFFLUENT."  The liquid overflow of any facility designed to treat, convey
or retain wastewater.
   "ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OR EPA."  The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   "EQUIPMENT."  All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   "FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE."  Combination of individual samples
proportional to the flow of the wastestream at the time of sampling.
   "FLOW WEIGHTED AVERAGING FORMULA (FWA)."  A procedure used to calculate
alternative limits for a categorical pretreatment standard where regulated and
nonregulated wastestreams combine after treatment, but prior to the monitoring
point as defined in 40 CFR 403.
   "GARBAGE."  The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   "GRAB SAMPLE."  A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
   "HOLDING TANK WASTE."  Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   "INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT."  All pollutants other than compatible pollutants
as defined in paragraph 16 of this article.
   "INDIRECT DISCHARGE."  The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   "INDUSTRIAL USER (IU)."  A source of Indirect Discharge which does not
constitute a "discharge of pollutants" under regulations issued pursuant to §
402 of the Clean Water Act.
   "INDUSTRIAL WASTES."  The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   "INTERCEPTOR."  A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous or undesirable matter from normal wastes which permits
normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer or drainage system
by gravity.  Interceptor as defined herein is commonly referred to as a grease,
oil, or sand trap.
   "INTERFERENCE."  A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources:
      (A)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and/or,
      (B)   Is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES/
KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent State or local regulations): § 405 of the Clean
Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title II, more
commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and
including State regulations contained in any State sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act
(40 CFR 403.3).
   "MAY."  This is permissive (see "shall").
   "MAXIMUM DAILY CONCENTRATION."  The maximum allowable concentration for a
specified parameter for any single observation in a given day.
   "MONTHLY AVERAGE."  The maximum allowable value for the average of all
observations obtained during one month.
   "MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER."  A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex or where there is any combination of business and residence in the same
building or complex.
   "NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD OR PRETREATMENT STANDARD."  Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act which applies to a
specific category of industrial users.  This termincludes prohibitive discharge
limits established pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5
   "NATIONAL (OR KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM OR NPDES/
KPDES PERMIT."  A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1332),
or a permit issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under this authority and
referred to as KPDES.
   "NATURAL OUTLET."  Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   "NEW SOURCE."  Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed Pretreatment Standards under § 307
(c) of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such Standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
      (A)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located; or
      (B)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      (C)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site.  In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered.
   "NINETY (90) DAY COMPLIANCE REPORT."  A report submitted by a categorical
industrial user, within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical standards that documents and certifies the compliance
status of the user (40 CFR 403.12(d)).
   "PASS THROUGH."  A discharge of pollutant which cannot be treated adequately
by the POTW, and therefore exits into waters of the United States in quantities
or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's
NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) (40 CFR 403.3).
   "PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORT."  A report on compliance status submitted by
significant industrial users to the Control Authority at least semiannually (40
CFR 403.12(e)).
   "PERSON."  Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estates, governmental
entity of any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agent or
assigns.  The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   "pH."  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. 
The concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of
solution.
   "POLLUTION."  The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   "POLLUTANT."  Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical, wrecked or discharged equipment,
rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste
discharged into water.
   "POTW TREATMENT PLANT."  That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
   "PRETREATMENT OR TREATMENT."  The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW.  The
reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological
processes, or process change(s), or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR
403.6(d).
   "PROCESS WASTEWATER."  Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production of or use of any
raw material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste
produce.
   "PRODUCTION-BASED STANDARD."  A discharge limitation expressed in terms of
allowable pollutant mass discharge rate per unit of production and is applied
directly to an industrial user's manufacturing process.
   "PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD."  Any regulation developed under the
authority of 307(b) of the Act and 40 CFR, § 403.(5).
   "PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE."  The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension.
   "PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW)."  A treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the city. 
This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment.  For the purpose of this chapter,
"POTW" shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city's POTW.
   "PUBLIC SEWER."  A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or
public utility.  In general, the public sewer shall include the main sewer in
the street and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer
on private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority.
   "REGULATED WASTESTREAM."  An industrial process wastestream regulated by a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   "SANITARY SEWER."  A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
   "SEWAGE."  The spent water of a community.  Domestic or sanitary waste shall
mean the liquid or water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
and institutions as distinct from industrial sewage.  The terms "sewage" and
"wastewater" are used interchangeably.
   "SEWERAGE."  Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater.
   "SEWER USER CHARGES."  A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement of such works.
   "SEWER SYSTEM OR WORKS."  All facilities for collecting, transporting,
pumping, treatment and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage
system and the POTW.
   "SEWER."  A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   "SHALL."  Is mandatory (see "may").
   "SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU)."  Defined by EPA guidance as:
      (A)   All industrial users subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards
under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N; and
      (B)   Any noncategorical industrial user that
         (i)   discharges 25,000 gallons per day or more of process wastewater
("process wastewater" excludes sanitary noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown
wastewaters) or
         (ii)   contributes a process wastestream which makes up to five
percent or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic (BOD5, TSS,
etc.)  capacity of the treatment plant or
         (iii)   has a reasonable potential, in the opinion of the Control or
Approval Authority, to adversely affect the pollutants, sludge contamination or
endangerment of POTW workers).
   "SLUG DISCHARGE."  Any discharge of a non-routine episodic nature including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge or any
discharge of water or wastewater in which the concentration of any given
constituent or quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of duration longer than
fifteen (15) minutes, more than five  (5) times the average twenty-four (24)
hour concentration or flow rate during normal operation which adversely affects
the POTW.
   "SLUG LOAD."  Any  pollutant (including Biochemical Oxygen Demand) released
in a discharge at a flow rate or concentration which will cause interference
with the operation of the treatment works or which exceed limits set forth in
the Industry's Discharge Permit and which include accidental spills.
   "SPILL PREVENTION AND CONTROL PLAN."  A plan prepared by an industrial user
to minimize the likelihood of a spill and to expedite control and cleanup
activities should a spill occur.
   "SPLIT SAMPLE."  Portion of a collected sample given to the industry or to
another agency to verify or compare laboratory results.
   "STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC)."  A classification scheme based
on the type of industry or process at a facility.
   "STANDARD METHODS."  The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the recent editions of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater," published jointly by the American Public Heath Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation
and as set forth in the Congressional Record 40 CFR 136.
   "STATE."  Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   "STORM DRAIN (SOMETIMES TERMED 'STORM SEWER')."  A drain or sewer for
conveying water, groundwater, surface water, or unpolluted water from any
source.
   "STORM WATER."  Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   "SUPERINTENDENT."  The person designated by the city to supervise the
publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this article or his duly authorized representative.
   "SURCHARGE."  A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges, for those users whose contributions contain Biochemical
Oxygen Demand (BOD5), Total Suspended Solids (TSS), Oil & Grease or Ammonia-
nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which exceed limits specified herein for
such pollutants.  Where authorized by the control authority, payment of a
surcharge will authorize the discharge of the referenced pollutants so long as
the discharge does not cause pass through or interference.
   "SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS)."  Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater."
   "TIME PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE."  Combination of individual samples
with fixed volumes taken at specific time intervals.
   "TOXIC ORGANIC MANAGEMENT PLAN."  Written plan submitted by industrial users
as an alternative to TTO monitoring, which specifies the toxic organic
compounds used, the method of disposal used and procedures for assuring that
toxic organics do not routinely spill or leak into wastewater discharged to the
POTW.
   "TOXIC POLLUTANT."  Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in  regulations  promulgated by the Administrator of EPA under the
provisions of the Clean Water Act 307(a) or any amendments thereto.
   "UNPOLLUTED WATER."  Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   "UNREGULATED WASTESTREAM."  A wastestream that is not regulated by a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   "USER."  Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   "WASTEWATER."  The spent water of a community.  Sanitary or domestic wastes
shall mean the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial
buildings and institutions as distinct from industrial waste.
   "WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT (WDP)."  A permit issued to industrial users
which authorizes discharges to the public sewer as set forth in the
Administration Section of this chapter.
   "WASTEWATER FACILITIES."  The structures, equipment and processes required
to collect, carry away, treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of
the effluent.
   "WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS."  An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge.  Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"water pollution control plant" or "sewage treatment plant".
   "WATERCOURSE."  A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water
either continuously or intermittently.
   "WATERS OF THE STATE."  All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border  upon the State or any portion thereof.
(Ord 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.003  ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
   ADMI-American Dye Manufacturers Institute
   ASTM-American Society for Testing and Materials
   BMP-Best Management Practices
   BOD5-Biochemical Oxygen Demand
   BPJ-Best Professional Judgment
   CFR-Code of Federal Regulations
   CIU-Categorical Industrial User
   COD-Chemical Oxygen Demand
   CWA-Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.)
   CWF-Combined Wastestream Formula
   EPA-Environmental Protection Agency
   FWA-Flow Weighted Average
   FR-Federal Register
   gpd-gallons per day
   IU-Industrial User
   l-Liter
   mg-Milligrams
   mg/l-Milligrams per liter
   NPDES-National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   KPDES-Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   POTW-Publicly Owned Treatment Works
   RCRA-Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
   SIC-Standard Industrial Classification
   SIU-Significant Industrial User
   SWDA-Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901, et seq.
   TSS-Total Suspended Solids
   TTO-Total Toxic Organics
   USC-United States Code
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.010  MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is
hereby required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after
date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within one
hundred (100) feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.  Failure to effect such
connection is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance. 
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.011  UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited any pollutant in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city except in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or storm sewer
within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary
wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment or
management has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter.  No provision of this chapter shall be construed to relieve the owner
of a discharge to any natural outlet of the responsibility for complying with
applicable State and Federal Regulations governing such discharge.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.012  COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE, AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent State or Federal Standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977,
and subsequent amendments, and 40 CFR 403.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.013  DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged, through any
leak, defect, or connection any unpolluted waters such as storm water,
groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage to any sanitary sewer, building
sewer, building drain or building plumbing.  The Superintendent or his
representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or
outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks, or defects to
building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying such
water to the building sewer.  No sanitary drain sump or sump pump discharge by
manual switch-over of discharge connection shall have a dual use for removal of
such water.
   (B)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks, or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.014  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with performance of the POTW. 
These general prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW whether or not the
user is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any other 
National,  State,  or  local Pretreatment Standards or Requirements.  A user
shall not contribute the following substances to the POTW:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW.  At no time shall the wastewater exhibit
a closed cup flashpoint of less than 140 degrees Fahrenheit or 60 degrees
Centigrade using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes having a ph lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the POTW.
   (C)   Any slug load of pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD5, etc.), released at a flow rate and/or concentration that will cause
obstruction to the flow in the sewers or other interference with the operation
of the POTW.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities (i.e., wood, glass, ashes, sand,
cinders, unshredded garbage, paper products such as cups, dishes, napkins and
milk containers, etc.).
   (E)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 40oC (104oF).
   (F)   Any pollutant(s) which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
   (G)   Any substances which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program.  In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act;
and criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, or State criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
   (H)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
Permit and/or sludge disposal system permit.
   (I)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable
cutting oil, products of mineral oil origin, or other  flammable or explosive
liquid, solid, or gas in amounts that will cause interference or pass through
at the POTW.
   (J)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants except at discharge points designated
by the POTW.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 52.020  PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
"Use of Public Sewer", the building sewer shall be connected, until the public
sewer is available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of the Rockcastle County Health Department, the provisions of this
chapter and all applicable local and State regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (C)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable local or
State regulations.
   (D)   Holders of NPDES/KPDES Permits may be excepted.  Industries with
current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge points
provided they are in compliance with the issuing authority.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021  REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or State regulations.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Rockcastle
County Health Department and the Mayor of the city following the approval for
said permit at a duly called meeting of the City Council.  The owner shall make
application for a permit to the city.  The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed
necessary by the Superintendent.  A permit application and inspection fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Rockcastle
County Health Department, the city, and the State.  They shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any event the applicant
for the permit shall notify the city when the work is ready for the final
inspection before any underground portions  are covered.  The inspection shall
be made within forty-eight (48) hours of the receipt of written notice by the
city (Saturdays, Sundays, and  holidays excepted).
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.030  PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits required;
      (1)   class 1 for residential; and
      (2)   class 2 for service to commercial and industrial establishments. 
   In either case, the owner(s) or his agent shall make application of a
special form furnished by the city. Applicants for service to commercial and
industrial establishments shall be required to furnish information about all
waste producing activities, wastewater characteristics and constituents.  The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent as
necessary before a permit can be issued.  Characteristics of typical domestic
wastewater shall be established by the city.  Details regarding commercial and
industrial permits include, but are not limited to those required by this
chapter.  Permit and inspection fees shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.  All users of the city's sewer system must have a
permit.  Existing customers will be allowed a grace period of six (6) months
from the effective date of this chapter to apply for a permit.  New customers
will be required to apply for a permit before they are allowed to connect to
the city's sewer.  A permit application and inspection fee of thirty-five
dollars ($35.00) for a class 1 residential permit and one hundred dollars
($100.00) for a class 2 commercial or industrial permit shall be paid to the
city at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   Users shall promptly notify the city in advance of any introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW.  The Superintendent
may deny or condition the new introduction or change in discharge based on the
information submitted in the notification or additional information as may be
requested.
   (C)   No person(s) shall uncover, plug or make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a permit from the city.  The city will, upon
application to the city and payment of any tapping or connection fee, issue a
permit to the applicant to tap the city sewer and run a lateral to the property
line of any applicant where sewers are available, and any installations or
attachments shall be made by the applicant under the direction and supervision
of the city, provided that nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the
city to furnish a sewer connection or sewer services to any premises where a
city sewer is not available at the time that the application is made.  Any
permit received is not assignable by the customer.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.031  PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall seepage or
floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other surface
runoff or groundwater  to  a  building  sewer  or building  drain which in turn
is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.  Any such
connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within sixty (60) days of the effective
date of this chapter.  The owner(s) of any building sewers having such
connections, leaks or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of
such sources.  Pipes, sumps, and pumps for such sources of ground and surface
water shall be separate from wastewater facilities.  Removal of such sources of
water without presence of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to
public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.032  DESIGN AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway.  The sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.  Permit and inspection fees for new buildings
using existing building sewers shall be the same as for new building sewers. 
If additional sewer customers are added to the old building sewers, additional
sewer tap fees shall be charged accordingly even though no new sewer tap is
actually made into the city system.
   (C)   Extension of customer service lines from any point on the customer's
side of the tap for delivery of waste from any location other than that of the
customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be permitted.
   (D)   The building sewer material shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74,
latest revision, PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) sewer pipe, ASTM D-3034, latest
revision, or ductile iron pipe, AWWA specification C-151 cement lined,  and 
shall meet requirements of the State plumbing code.  Joints shall be as set out
hereinafter.  Any part of the building sewer that is located within five (5)
feet of a water service pipe shall be constructed with cast iron soil pipe or
ductile iron pipe, unless the building sewer is at least one (1) foot deeper in
the ground than the water service line.  Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron
pipe may be required by the city where the building sewer is  exposed  to
damage  or  stoppage by tree roots.  Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe
shall be used in filled or unstable ground, in areas where the cover over the
building sewer is less than three (3) feet, or in areas where the sewer is
subject to vehicular or other external loads.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of  construction  of  a 
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the local and State building and plumbing codes and other
applicable rules and regulations of the city.  A connection shall not be made,
nor shall a trench be backfilled before an inspection of the work has been made
and an approval certificate signed by the Superintendent is issued.  Such
inspection shall be made within forty-eight (48) hours of the receipt of
written notice by the city (Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted).
   (F)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
to the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s).  The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.  Fees for connection
shall be as established by the city.
   (G)   The owner shall ensure that all excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard.  Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city.
   (H)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the same building sewer
at no cost to the city.  Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary
drainage shall be above basement floor or in separately watertight or drained
sump or channel.
   (I)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line.  Where no service branch for a property is
available, an authorized agent of the city shall cut a neat hole into the main
line of the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle shall be installed to
receive the building sewer.  The invert of the building sewer at such point of
connection with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant to the main line of the
public sewer.  A neat workmanlike connection, not extending past the inner
surface of the public sewer, shall be made and the saddle made secure and
watertight by encasement in epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose. 
A wye and H bend fitting shall be installed at the property line between the
public sewer and the building sewer.  This fitting shall serve the purpose of a
clean out and for applying the smoke test during inspection of the line.  After
testing, a cast iron or ductile iron riser will be inserted in this fitting and
brought flush with the ground surface.  A stopper or plug, outfitted with the
type of joint applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against the
intrusion of ground or surface water.
   (J)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed so as to meet or
exceed the most current revision of the State Plumbing Code.
   (K)   In the event that a building or premises discharging sewage, water, or
other wastes into the municipal sewer facilities uses water supplied on other
than a metered basis from either a private or public water supply, then in such
case, the owner or occupant may be required to cause a flow meter or other
measuring device acceptable to the city to be installed to measure the amount
of the discharge.
   (L)   In the event any building or premises uses water in excess of 10,000
gallons per month as shown on the water meter readings for the property for two
(2) consecutive months and it can be shown that a substantial portion of the
water as so measured does not and cannot enter the municipal sewer facilities,
then the city may determine, upon receipt of a written request from the owner
of the property, in such manner as may be found practicable, the amount of
water entering the sewer(s), in which event the charge for the discharge to the
sewer shall be based thereon, or the city may require or permit the
installation of additional meters or measuring devices to determine the
quantity of water or sewage actually entering the municipal sewer facilities,
in which case the charge for the discharge to the sewer shall be based thereon.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.033  INSPECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for connection to the public
sewer.  The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his representative.  The connections shall be made gastight
and watertight and verified by proper testing.
   (B)   All building sewers shall be smoke tested through the wye branch at
the public sewer connection, with the public sewer tightly plugged off, after
connections at both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and
backfilled at least to the top of the pipe and if backfill is completed, within
two (2) weeks after completion of backfill.  At time of test, any openings into
the building drain inside the building shall be water trapped or plugged.  Any
leakage of smoke from building sewer or building drain and plumbing shall be
located at test and repaired to stand repetition of smoke test without
leakage.  When smoke testing is completed, the temporary flow line plug shall
be removed and a permanent watertight plug shall be placed in the branch of the
test wye-branch and carefully backfilled by hand and tamped to at least six (6)
inches above the top of the branch.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 52.040  GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The following described  substances,  materials,  water  or  wastes shall be
limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentration or quantities
which: will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will maintain and protect water quality in the receiving stream, and
will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance.  The Superintendent may set additional limitations or limitations
more stringent than those established in the provisions below if in his opinion
more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives.  In forming
his opinion as to the acceptability of a discharge, the Superintendent shall
give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors. (Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.041  RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Wastewater containing more than 50 milligrams per liter (mg/l) of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil
origin.
   (B)   Wastewater containing floatable oils, fat, or grease, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter (mg/l) or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F
(0°C) and 150°F (65°C).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.  Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which: injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, causes the city to violate the terms of its KPDES permit, prevents
the use of acceptable sludge disposal methods, or exceed a limitation set forth
in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   (E)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
State or Federal Regulations.
   (F)   Any water or wastes which by interaction with other water or wastes in
the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids which
interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious to
structures and treatment processes.
   (G)   Any wastewater with objectionable color which cannot be removed to an
acceptable level within the operation of the wastewater treatment process but
in no case, wastewater with a color that exceeds 100 ADMI units.
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed to the
extent required by the city's NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (I)   Any waste(s) or wastewater(s) classified as a hazardous waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) without a sixty (60) day prior
notification of such discharge to the Superintendent.  This notification must
include the name of the hazardous waste, the EPA hazardous waste number, type
of discharge, volume/mass or discharge and time of occurrence(s).  The
Superintendent may prohibit or condition the discharge(s) at any time.
   (J)   Any water or wastes which have characteristics based on a 24 hour
composite sample, grab or a shorter period composite sample, if more
representative, that exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater
parameter concentrations:
 
   Parameter                  Maximum Allowable Concentration Without
Surcharges
   Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD5)            325 mg/l
   Total Suspended Solids (TSS)               325 mg/l
   Ammonia-Nitrogen (NH3-N)                  25 mg/l
   Oil & Grease (total)                     50 mg/l
   Any person discharging wastewater exceeding the maximum allowable
concentration as noted above, will be subject to a surcharge fee for each pound
loading over and above the limit set above and an upper limit to be established
when the Wastewater Discharge permit is issued.  Any other amenable
constituents requiring the addition of specific chemicals for proper treatment
will also be subject to surcharge as noted on the Wastewater Discharge Permit. 
Exceedance of the effluent limits specified above shall not be deemed to
constitute a violation of a permit condition or this chapter if the
appropriated surcharge fee is paid and the discharge does not cause
interference or pass through of the POTW.
   (K)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of any
wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system.  All significant
industrial users must comply with these limitations where they are more
stringent than applicable State and/or Federal Regulations.
 
   Parameter            Concentration (mg/l)
   Arsenic               TBE
   Boron                  1.00
   Cadmium               0.01
   Chromium (Hexavalent)         0.05
   Copper                  0.20
   Cyanide, Total               0.10
   Iron                  5.00
   Lead                  0.10
   Mercury               TBE
   Molybdenum               TBE
   Nickel                  0.10
   Potassium               TBE
   Selenium               TBE
   Silver                  TBE
   Zinc                  2.00
   Total Toxic Organics            TBE
   Total Chromium            TBE
   (L)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR 136, and shall be determined at
the control manhole provided or on suitable samples taken at said control
manhole.  In the event a control manhole has not been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.  Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents on the sewage system and to determine the existence of hazards of
life, limb, and property.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.042  DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any pollutant specific
limitation developed by the city or state.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.043  GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptor(s) shall not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.  All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.  In
the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for 
the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material
and shall maintain records of the date, and means of disposal.  The city may
require that hauling of the collected materials not performed by owner(s)
personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms. 
Interceptors shall also comply  with applicable  regulations of the Rockcastle
County Health Department.
(Ord 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.044  SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
and later amendments, all Pretreatment Standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for new and existing industrial dischargers to
public sewer systems are hereby made a part of this chapter.  Any industrial
waste discharge which violates these EPA Pretreatment Standards shall be in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, the industry shall be solely responsible for
the continued maintenance in satisfactory and effective operation of such
facilities at their own expense.  The city may agree to assume these
responsibilities if proper and appropriate arrangement for reimbursement of
costs are made.
   (C)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste or other batch liquid waste and wishes to
discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first have a valid
Discharge Permit.  All applicants for a Discharge Permit shall complete the
application form, pay the appropriate fee, and receive a copy of the city's
regulations governing discharge to sewers of liquid wastes from trucks.  All
persons receiving such permits shall agree, in writing, to abide by all
applicable provisions of this chapter, and any other special provisions that
may be established by the city as necessary for the proper operation and
maintenance of the sewerage system.
   (D)   In addition any person holding a valid permit and wishing to discharge
to the wastewater treatment plant must submit to the Chief Operator a sample of
each load prior to discharge.  A fee and payment schedule shall be established
in the permit to cover cost of the required analysis.
   (E)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the city for such purpose.
   (F)   Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging to the public sewer
system or discharging wastewater not authorized in the permit shall be subject
to immediate revocation of discharge privileges and further subject to the
penalties and enforcement actions prescribed in "Penalties" including fines and
imprisonment.
   (G)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with  a 
fee schedule  established by the Superintendent and approved by the city.
   (H)   Nothing  in  this  chapter  shall  relieve  waste  haulers  of  the
responsibility for compliance with the Rockcastle County Health Department,
state or federal regulations.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.045  PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each significant industrial user shall provide protection from
accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or other substances
regulated by this chapter which adversely affects the POTW.  Facilities to
prevent accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner or user's own cost and expense.  Once
every two (2) years, the Superintendent will determine whether each industrial
user needs to develop or update a plan to control slug discharges. If the
Superintendent determines that a slug control plan or revision is necessary,
the plan shall contain the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices.
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals.
      (3)   Procedures for notifying the POTW.
      (4)   Prevention procedures for spills.
   In the case of all possible or actual accidental and/or slug discharges, it
is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and notify the POTW
of the incident.  The notification shall include location of discharge, type of
waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice.  Within five (5) days following an accidental
discharge, the user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written
report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by
the user to prevent similar future occurrence.  Such notification shall not
relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be
incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this section, any
Enforcement  Response Plan which may be adopted by the city or other applicable
law.
   (C)   Notice to Employees.  A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user's bulletin board or other prominent plan advising employees whom to  call 
in  the  event of a dangerous discharge.  Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.046  STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case 
where  they  are  more  stringent  than  Federal  requirements and limitations
or those in this chapter.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.047  CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish more stringent limitations, or
requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to comply with the
objectives presented in this chapter.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.048  FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards for a
particular industrial subcategory, the Federal Standard, if more stringent than
limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall
immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter.
(Ord 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.060  WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to the POTW any wastewater except as
authorized by the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any agency, nondomestic user, and/or industry outside the jurisdiction
of the city that desires to contribute wastewater to the POTW must execute
(through an authorized representative) an interjurisdictional agreement,
whereby the agency and/or industry agrees to be regulated by all provisions of
this chapter and State and Federal Regulations.  An Industrial User Permit may
then be issued by the Superintendent in accordance with § 51.061 of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.061  INDUSTRIAL USER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or
to contribute to the POTW shall obtain an Industrial User Permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
   (B)   Permit Application.  Users required to obtain an Industrial User
Permit shall complete and file with the city, an application in the form
prescribed by the city, and accompanied by a permit fee.  New users  shall
apply at least ninety (90) days prior to connecting to or contributing to the
POTW.  Existing permit holder shall apply no later than sixty (60) days prior
to expiration of permit.  In support of the application, the user shall submit,
in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number(s) according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to §
304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, as amended, and Part 261,
as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and thirty (30) minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by the city, State or Federal Pretreatment
Standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment
is required for the user to meet applicable Pretreatment Standards.
      (9)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
Pretreatment Standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment.  The completion date in this schedule shall not
be later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standards.  The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule must be acceptable to the city.
         (b)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable Pretreatment Standards.
         (c)   Not later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress
report to the Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it
complied with the increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the
date on which it expects to comply with this increment of progress and the
reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the user to return the
construction to the schedule established.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
the rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number of employees, and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application;
      (14)   A copy of the industry's written environmental control program,
comparable document, or policy.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.062  ISSUANCE.
   The city shall evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information.  After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the City Engineer or his designee may issue an Industrial Wastewater Discharge
Permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.063  PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine (9) months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards, the Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit of users
subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance with such
standards within the time frame prescribed by such standards.  Where a user,
subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, has not previously
submitted an application for an Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit as
required, the user shall apply for an Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit
within ninety (90) days after the promulgation of the applicable National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards.  In addition, the user with an existing
Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permit shall submit, to the City Engineer
within ninety (90) days after the promulgation of an applicable Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, the information required by this chapter.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.064  PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Industrial Wastewater Discharge Permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the city.  Permits may contain the following:
   (A)   The unit surcharges or schedule of other charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
   (B)   Limits on the average and/or maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
   (C)   Limits on average and/or maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
   (D)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (E)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
location; frequency of sampling; number, type and standards for tests; and
reporting schedule;
   (F)   Compliance schedules;
   (G)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports;
   (H)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining, for a minimum of three (3)
years, all plant records relating to pretreatment and/or wastewater discharge
as specified by the city, and affording city access thereto as required by 40
CFR 403.12(o)(2);
   (I)   Requirements for notification of the city or any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
   (J)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
   (K)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the city for all expenses
related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction of the
City Engineer and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user is in
compliance with the said permit; and
   (L)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.065  ALTERNATIVE DISCHARGE LIMITS.
   (A)   Where an effluent from a categorical industrial process(es) is mixed
prior to treatment with wastewater other than that generated by the regulated
process, fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the discharge
permit by the Superintendent.  These alternative limits shall be applied to the
mixed effluent and shall be calculated using the Combined Wastestream Formula
and/or Flow-Weighted Average Formula as defined in §
51.002.
   (B)   Where  the  effluent  limits  in  a Categorical Pretreatment Standard
are expressed only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production
(production-based standard), the Superintendent may convert the limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day
or of effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent permit
limitations applicable to the permittee.  The permittee  shall  be  subject 
to  all  permit  limits calculated in this manner under 40 CFR 403.6(c)  and 
must  fully  comply  with  these alternative limits.
   (C)   All categorical users subject to production-based standards must
report production rates annually so that alternative permit limits can be
calculated if necessary.  The categorical user must notify the Superintendent
thirty (30) days in advance of any major change in production levels that will
affect the limits for the discharge permit.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.066  PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five (5)
years.  A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated
to expire on a specific date.  The user shall apply for permit reissuance a
minimum of sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the user's existing
permit.  The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification
by the city during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as
identified in this section are modified or other just cause exists.  The user
shall be informed of any proposed changes in their permit at least thirty (30)
days prior to the effective date of change.  Any changes or new conditions in
the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.067  PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Industrial User Permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation.  An Industrial User Permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or
sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without a thirty (30) day prior notification to the Superintendent
and provision of a copy of the existing permit to the new owner.  The
Superintendent may deny the transfer of the permit if it is deemed necessary.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.068  COMPLIANCE DATA REPORTING.
   Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical Pretreatment Standards or, in the case of a  new user,
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards and Requirements
shall submit, to the Superintendent, a report indicating the nature and
concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process
which are limited by Categorical Pretreatment Standards and Requirements and
the average and maximum daily  flow  for  these process units in the user's
facility which are limited by such Categorical Standards and Requirements.  The
report shall state whether the applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and Requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what
additional pretreatment and time schedule is necessary to bring the user into
compliance with the applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Requirements.  This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative
of the user.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.069  PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall submit, to the Superintendent,
every six (6) months (on dates specified in the Industrial User Permit) unless
required more frequently by the Permit, a report indicating, at a minimum, the
nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by
such Pretreatment Standards or discharge permit.  In addition, this report
shall include a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period
exceeded the average daily flow.  At the discretion of the Superintendent and
in consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays,
budget cycles, etc., the Superintendent may agree to alter the months during
which the above reports are to be submitted.
   (B)   All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory acceptable to the
city.  Analytical procedures shall be in accordance with procedures established
by the U.S. EPA Administrator pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in
40 CFR, Part 136 and amendments thereto and 40 CFR 261 or with any other test
procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.  Sampling shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
   (C)   Where 40 CFR, Part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant(s) in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication
"Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants," April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
   (D)   A Baseline Monitoring Report (BMR) must be submitted to the
Superintendent by all categorical industrial users at least ninety (90) days
prior to initiation of discharge to the sanitary sewer.  The BMR must contain,
at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Production Data: a process description, SIC code number, raw
materials used, chemicals used, final product, pretreatment industrial category
(if applicable), and a schematic which indicates points of discharge to the
sewer system;
      (2)   Identifying information to include name, address of facility, owner
(s), contact person and any other permits held by the facility;
      (3)   Wastewater characteristics: total  plant  flow, types  of
discharges, average and maximum flows from each process;
      (4)   Nature/Concentration of pollutants: analytical results for all
pollutants regulated by this chapter and/or any applicable federal pretreatment
standards and sample type and location.  All analyses must conform with 40 CFR,
Part 136 and amendments thereto; and
      (5)   Information concerning any pretreatment equipment used to  treat
the facility's discharge.
   (E)   New sources shall give estimates of the information requested in §§
(D)(3) and (D)(4) above, but at no time shall a new source commence discharge
(s) to the public sewer of substances that do not meet provisions of this
chapter.  All new sources must be in compliance with all provisions of this
chapter, State and Federal pretreatment regulations prior to commencement of
discharge to the public sewer.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.070  PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users must notify the Superintendent within
24 hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation.  This notification
shall include the date of violation, the parameter violated and the amount in
exceedance.
   (B)   The user shall immediately repeat the sampling and analysis of the
parameter(s) in question and submit the results to the Superintendent within
thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violation.  Exception to this
regulation is only if the city performs the sampling within the same time
period for the same parameter(s) in question.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.071  MONITORING.
   (A)   The city shall require significant users to provide and operate, at
the user's own expense, monitoring facilities and equipment necessary to allow
inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or
internal drainage system.  The monitoring facility should normally be situated
on the user's premises, but the city may, when such a location would be
impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be
constructed in a public right-of-way.  The Superintendent shall review and
approve the location, plans, and specifications for such monitoring facilities
and may require them to be constructed to provide for the separate monitoring
and sampling of industrial waste and sanitary sewage flows.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.  The
facility shall be designed and maintained in a manner such that the safety of
city and industrial personnel shall be foremost.  The  facility,  sampling, and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a proper operating
condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications.  Construction shall be completed within ninety (90) days
following approval of the location, plans and specifications.
   (D)   All  sampling  analyses  done  at  the  permitted discharge in 
accordance with approved federal EPA procedures by the industrial user during a
reporting period shall be submitted to the Superintendent regardless of whether
or not that analysis was required by the industrial user's discharge permit.
   (E)   The industrial user must receive the approval of the Superintendent
before changing the sampling point and/or monitoring facilities to be used in
all required sampling.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.072  INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with.  Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or their representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, copying records, records examination or in the performance of any of
their duties.
   (B)   The city, Approval Authority, and EPA shall have the right to set up
on the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations.  Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry onto their premises, the user shall make the necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city, Approval Authority and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.073  PRETREATMENT.
   All significant industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with this chapter and achieve compliance with
any applicable Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards within the time
limitations as specified by the Federal Pretreatment Regulations.  The city may
require the development of a compliance schedule for installation of
pretreatment technology and/or equipment by any industrial user that cannot
meet discharge limits required by this chapter.  Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level required by this chapter shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user's expense.  Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and  operating procedures shall be submitted to the
city for review, and shall be acceptable to the city before construction of the
facility.  The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent that complies with the provisions of this chapter.  Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user's initiation of
the changes.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.074  ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The city shall publish annually in its largest daily newspaper a list
of significant users which were in significant noncompliance with any
Pretreatment Requirements or Standards.  The notification shall also summarize
any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same twelve (12)
months.
   (B)   All records relating to the city's Pretreatment Program shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or Approval Authority upon request.  All
records shall be maintained for a minimum of three (3) years in accordance with
40 CFR 403.12(O)(2).
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.075  SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE.
   A user is defined as being in significant noncompliance when it commits one
or more of the following conditions:
   (A)   Causes imminent endangerment to human health or the environment or
results in the exercise of emergency authority;
   (B)   Involves failure to report noncompliance accurately;
   (C)   Results in a chronic violation defined here as sixty-six percent (66%)
or more of all measurements taken during a six (6) month period that exceed (by
any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the monthly average limit for the
same pollutant parameter;
   (D)   Results in a Technical Review Criteria (TRC) Violation defined here as
thirty-three percent (33%) or more of all measurements for each pollutant
parameter taken during a six (6) month period that equal or exceed the product
of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable
TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD5, TSS, fats, and oil & grease, and 1.2 for all other
pollutants except pH);
   (E)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the Control
Authority determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through or has endangered the health of the POTW personnel
or the public;
   (F)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health/welfare or
to the environment or resulting in the POTW's use of its emergency authority to
halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (G)   Violations  of  Compliance  Schedule  Milestones,  failure  to comply
with schedule milestones for starting or completing construction or attaining
final compliance by ninety (90) days or more after the schedule date;
   (H)   Failure to provide required reports within thirty (30) days of the due
date; and
   (I)   Any violation or group of violations which the Control Authority
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.076  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the city that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available to all
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES/KPDES Permit,
Sludge Disposal System Permit and/or the Pretreatment Programs upon request. 
Such portions of a report shall be available to use by the State or any State
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report.  Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not
be recognized as confidential information and shall be available to the public
without restriction.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.077  SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All applications, reports or information submitted to the city shall be
signed and certified.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be signed:
      (1)   For a corporation: by a principal executive officer of at least the
level of vice-president;
      (2)   For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or
the proprietor, respectively.
   (B)   All other correspondence, reports and self-monitoring reports shall be
signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative  of 
that  person.  A  person  is  a  duly  authorized representative only if:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by a person described above;
      (2)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager,
superintendent or position of equivalent responsibility.
   (C)   Certification.  Any person signing a document under this section shall
make the following certification:
      "I certify under penalty of law that I am familiar with the information
contained in this report and its attachments and that to the best of my
knowledge and belief such information is true, complete and accurate."
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 52.090  PURPOSE.
   This section provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW for
the implementation of the program established herein.  The applicable charges
or fees are set forth in the
Chapter 50 of this code.
(Ord. 2-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 3-96, passed 7-1-96; Am. Ord. 1-97, passed
3-3-97)
§ 52.091  CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include:
   (A)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the city's
Pretreatment Program;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
   (D)   Fees for permit applications;
   (E)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (F)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of excessive strength
conventional pollutants; and
   (G)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and are
separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.092  DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   Regulations concerning delinquent accounts of customers are set forth in the
city's User Charge Chapter.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 52.100  RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Superintendent and other duly promulgated employees and representatives
of the city and authorized representatives of applicable Federal and State
regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to discharges to the public sewer
system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.101  RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city and
authorized representatives of applicable Federal and State regulatory agencies
bearing proper credentials and identification are authorized to obtain
information including but not limited to copying of records concerning
character, strength and quantity of industrial wastes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.102  ACCESS TO EASEMENTS.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, construction, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portions of the
wastewater facilities lying within said easement.  All entry and subsequent
work, if any on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.103  SAFETY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.102 above, all duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company.  The
company shall be held blameless for injury or death to city employees.  The
city shall secure the company against loss or damage to its property by city
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.110  GENERAL.
   (A)   The city, through the Superintendent or his designee, to insure
compliance with this chapter, and as permitted through 40 CFR Subchapter N, and
401 KAR 5:055, may take the following enforcement steps against users in
noncompliance with the chapter.  The remedies available to the POTW include
injunctive relief, civil and criminal penalties, immediate discontinuance of
discharges and/or water service and the publishing of the list of significant
violators annually.  The enforcement authority may be vested in the
Superintendent or their designee.
   (B)   The Superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
an Industrial User Permit when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of
the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or
may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or causes the city
to violate any condition of its NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (C)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the Industrial User Permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution.  In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals.  The city shall
reinstate the Industrial User Permit and/or the wastewater treatment service
upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge.  A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be
submitted to the city within fifteen (15) days of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.111  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provisions of this chapter,
wastewater permit, or any order issued hereunder, shall be served by the city
with written notice stating the nature of the violation(s).  Within ten (10)
days of the receipt date of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a
plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted to the Superintendent. 
Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of potential liability for
any violation occurring before or after receipt of the Notice of Violation.
   (B)   If the violations persist or the explanation and/or plan are not
adequate, the city's response shall be more formal and commitments (or
schedules as appropriate) for compliance will be established in an enforceable
document.  The enforcement response selected will be related  to the
seriousness of the violation.  Enforcement responses will be escalated if
compliance is not achieved expeditiously after the initial action.  A
significant noncompliance as defined in §
51.074 will require a formal enforcement action.
   (C)   The full scale of enforcement actions will be as detailed in the
Enforcement Response Plan.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.112  ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   (A)   Any user who after receiving a Notice of Violation shall continue to
discharge in violation of this chapter or other pretreatment standards or
requirements or is determined to be a chronic or persistent violator or who is
determined to be a significant violator, shall be ordered to appear before the
city.  At said appearance, a compliance schedule will be given to the non-
conforming user and an administrative fine assessed.  The fine shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis which shall consider the type and severity
of violations, duration of violation, number of violations, severity of impact
on the POTW, impact on human health, users economic benefit from the violation,
history of violations, good faith of the user, and shall be a non-arbitrary but
appropriate amount.
   (B)   The administrative order may take any of the following three forms:
      (1)   Consent Orders.  The Superintendent or their designee is hereby
empowered to enter into Consent Orders, assurance of voluntary compliance, or
other similar documents establishing an agreement with the industrial user
responsible for the noncompliance.  Such orders will include specific action to
be taken by the industrial user to correct the noncompliance within a time
period also specified by the order.  Consent Orders shall have the same force
and effect as orders issued pursuant to §
52.112(C) below.
      (2)   Compliance Order.  When the Superintendent or their designee finds
that an industrial user has violated or continues to violate the chapter or a
permit or order issued thereunder, he may issue an order to the industrial user
responsible for the discharge directly that, following a specified time period,
sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances have been installed and are properly
operated.  Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including
the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring and
management practices.
      (3)   Cease  and  Desist Orders.  When the Superintendent finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit
or order issued hereunder, the Superintendent may issue an order to cease and
desist all such violations and direct those persons in noncompliance to:
         (a)   Comply forthwith; or
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.113  SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent or their designee may issue to any user who causes
or contributes to violations of this chapter, wastewater permit or order issued
hereunder, an order to appear and show cause why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken.  A notice shall be served on the user specifying
the time and place of the hearing to be held by the Superintendent regarding
the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the proposed
enforcement action, and directing the user to show cause, before the
Superintendent, why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken.  The
notice of hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten (10) days before the hearing.  Service
may be made on any agent or officer of the industrial user.  Whether or not a
duly notified industrial user or its representative appears, immediate
enforcement action may be pursued.
   (B)   The city may, itself, conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
designate a representative to:
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the city, notice of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relating
to any matter involved in such hearing;
      (2)   Take the evidence;
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city for
action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically.  The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the city has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances are properly operated.  Further orders
and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.114  ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Performance Bond.  The Superintendent may decline to reissue  a permit
to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder unless such user first
files with it a satisfactory performance bond, payable to the POTW, in a sum
not to exceed a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to
achieve consistent compliance.  The performance bond shall be executed by such
sureties as are named in the current list of "Companies Holding Certificates of
Authority as Acceptable Sureties on Federal Bonds and as Acceptable Reinsuring
Companies" as published in Circular 570 (amended) by the Audit Staff, Financial
Management Service, Surety Bond Branch, U.S. Treasury Department.  All bonds
signed by an agent must be accompanied by a certified copy of such agent's
authority to act.
   (B)   Liability Insurance.  The Superintendent may decline to reissue a
permit to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder, unless the
industrial user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assistance
sufficient to restore or repair POTW damage caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.115  WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter or a wastewater
permit or order issued hereunder, shall be served by the Superintendent or
their designee with written notice stating the nature of the violation.  The
offender shall permanently remedy all violations upon receipt of this notice.
   As contained in §
52.110, the notice may be of several forms.  Also as contained in §
52.110, penalties of various forms may be levied against users for violations
of this chapter.  The penalties, if levied, shall range from publication of
violators in the local newspaper to administrative fines of at least $1,000.00
per day per violation.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS, PROHIBITIONS, AND CONDITIONS
§ 52.120  OWNERSHIP OF SEWER SYSTEM.
   The city shall own all sewer lines, appurtenances, treatment facilities, and
sewer equipment located on city streets or easements.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.121  EXTENSIONS TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city will construct extensions to its sewer lines to points 
within  its  service  area,  but  the  city  is  not required to construct any
extension unless the customer pays to the city the entire cost of the extension
to the city's sewer lines in advance. All decisions regarding the manner of
installation of any extension and maintenance thereof shall remain in the
exclusive control of the city, such extension shall be the property of the city
and no other person shall have any right, title, or interest therein.
   (B)   Each customer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed, to the city, a perpetual easement across any property owned or
controlled by the customer, whenever said easement is necessary for the city to
furnish service to the customer.
   (C)   All line extensions shall be evidenced by a contract signed by the
city and the customer advancing funds for said extension.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.122  INADEQUATE CAPACITY.
   The city may refuse service to any potential residential, commercial or
industrial customer, when in the opinion of the city the  capacity of the
facilities will not permit such service.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.123  BUILDING SEWER.
   The customer's "house connection", which is also called building sewer,
shall be installed and maintained by the customer at their own expense in a
safe and efficient manner in accordance with the city's rules and regulations
and the regulations of the Rockcastle County Health Department.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.124  SUPERVISED TAPS AND CONNECTIONS.
   All taps and connections to the sewer of the city shall be made by and/or
under the direction and supervision of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.125  INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The city shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruption of
service, and when such interruptions occur, will endeavor to reestablish
service with the shortest possible delay.  When the service is interrupted, all
customers affected by such interruption will be notified in advance, if
possible.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.126  CLAIMS.
   In no event shall the city be responsible for any claim made against it by
reason of the breaking of any sewer mains or service pipes,  or  by reason of
any other interruption caused by the failure or breakage  of  machinery  or 
stoppage for necessary repairs or for other reasonable causes.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.127  WATER SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
   (A)   Water service may be discontinued by the Superintendent for any
violation of any rule, regulation, or condition of service and especially for
any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the application or contract as to the property
or fixtures to be supplied, or as to additional use of water or sewer service,
or as to unusual or extraordinary use of sewer facilities.
      (2)   Failure to report to the city additions to the property or fixtures
to be supplied, or of additional use of water or sewer service.
      (3)   Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect service pipes
or failure to keep same in suitable state of repair.
      (4)   Tampering with meter, meter seal, service or valves, or permitting
such tampering by others.
      (5)   Nonpayment of bills.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.128  COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints may be made to the Superintendent of the system, whose decision
may be appealed to the governing body within ten (10) days; otherwise, the
Superintendent's decision will be final.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.129  DEADLINES.
   If a deadline falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, such deadline
shall not expire until the next succeeding secular day.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
§ 52.999  PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter or a
wastewater permit order issued hereunder, may be subject to termination of its
authority to discharge sewage into the municipal sewer system.  Such
termination may be immediate if necessary for the protection of the POTW.  Said
user may also have water service terminated.
   (B)   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable State or Federal Regulations, is subject to having his permit
revoked in accordance with the procedures of this chapter.
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his discharge;
      (2)   Failure  of  the  user  to  report significant changes in
operations, or wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
   (C)   Liability.  Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter,
discharge permit or other order issued hereunder shall become liable to the
City of Mt. Vernon, Kentucky, for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of such violation.  This civil liability is as provided by State
and Federal Regulations.
(ord. 1-96, passed 7-1-96)
   (D)   Misrepresentation and/or falsifying of documents.  Any user who
knowingly and/or negligently makes any false statements, representations or
certification of any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required pursuant to this chapter or Industrial User Discharge Permit or who
falsifies, tampers with or knowingly and/or negligently renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall be punished by a
fine of at least $1,000.00 or by imprisonment for not more than twelve (12)
months or by both.
   (E)   Destruction of POTW and legal action.  No person(s) shall maliciously,
willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the POTW.  Any
person(s) violating this provision shall be subject to immediate civil and/or
criminal liability.
   (F)   Legal action.  If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or
other wastes into the city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, Federal or State Pretreatment Requirements or any
order of the city, the city may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or
equitable relief in the appropriate court of this jurisdiction and/or seek
appropriate criminal charge(s) and conviction(s).
   (G)   Injunctive relief.Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate
the provisions of this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the
Superintendent, through counsel may petition the court for the issuance of a
preliminary or permanent injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which
restrains or compels the activities on the part of the industrial user.
   (H)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any  user who has  significantly violated or continues to violate
this chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, may be liable to the city
for a civil penalty of not less than $1,000.00 per violation per day plus
actual damages incurred by the POTW for as long as the violation continues. 
Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate
offense.  In addition to the above described penalty and damages, the city may
recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, court reporter's fees, and
other expenses associated with the enforcement activities, including sampling
and monitoring expenses.
      (2)   The city may petition the court to impose, assess and recover such
sums.  In determining amount of liability, the court shall take into account
all relevant circumstances including, but not limited to, the extent of harm
caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any economic benefit
gained through the industrial user's violation, corrective actions by the
industrial user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as
justice requires.
(Ord. 1-96, passed 7-1-96)
   (I)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   Violations - General:
         (a)   Any user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of
this chapter or any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than $1,000.00 per
violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one (1) year or both.
      (2)   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed $10,000.00 per violation per day or imprisonment for
not more than three (3) years or both.
(Ord. 1-97, passed 3-3-97)
CHAPTER 53:  SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
   Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Rules and regulations
   
53.003   Prohibited practices
Solid Waste Storage
   
53.010   Storage containers required
   
53.011   Storage in manner prescribed by ordinance
   
53.012   Standards for residential storage containers
   
53.013   Standards for commercial storage containers
   
53.014   Yard waste
   
53.015   Air tight containers
Collection of Solid Waste
   
53.025   City responsibility defined
   
53.026   Collection of waste outside city limits
   
53.027   Collection points
   
53.028   Bulky rubbish
   
53.029   Collection frequency
   
53.030   Ownership of solid waste
   
53.031   Collector’s responsibility defined
   
53.032   Prohibited items
Transportation of Solid Waste
   
53.045   Collection vehicle standards
Disposal of Solid Waste
   
53.050   Disposal in approved sites
   
53.051   Hazardous waste disposal
Permitting
   
53.060   Permit requirements
   
53.061   Establishment of permit
   
53.062   Granting a permit
   
53.064   Fee approval
   
53.065   Termination of permit holder
Service Charges
   
53.075   Fees
   
53.076   Delinquency
   
53.077   Uncollected fees
Public Nuisances and Litter in General
   
53.090   Litter in general
   
53.091   Illegal disposal of solid waste
   
53.092   Notification
   
53.093   Non-compliance
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "APPROVED INCINERATOR." An incinerator which complies with all current
regulations of the responsible local, state and federal air pollution control
agencies.
   "BULKY RUBBISH." Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of combustible and/
or non-combustible waste materials from dwelling units, commercial, industrial,
institutional, or agricultural establishments which are either too large or too
heavy to be safely and conveniently loaded in solid waste transportation
vehicles by solid waste collectors, with the equipment available therefor.
   "CITY." An incorporated area in the city not included in the city’s solid
waste collection franchise areas.
   "COLLECTION." Removal of solid waste from the designated pickup location to
the transportation vehicle.
   "COUNTY." The County of Rockcastle, Kentucky.
   "DEMOLITION AND CONSTRUCTION WASTE." Waste materials from the construction
or destruction of residential, industrial or commercial structures.
   "DIRECTOR." The Director of the Solid Waste Management Program of the city
shall be the Solid Waste Coordinator.
   "DISPOSABLE SOLID WASTE CONTAINER." Disposable plastic or paper sacks with a
capacity of twenty (20) to thirty-five (35) gallons specifically designed for
storage of solid waste.
   "DWELLING UNIT." Any room or group of rooms located within a structure, and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used, or are intended
to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   "HAZARDOUS WASTE." Any waste or combination of wastes which is determined by
the Kentucky Department for Environmental Protection, because of its quality,
concentration, or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may cause or
significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious
irreversible, or incapacitating reversible illness, or pose a substantial
present or potential threat to human health or the environment when improperly
treated, stored, transported or disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   "LITTER." That part of solid waste including but not limited to containers,
packages, wrappings, printed material or other material thrown or deposited as
herein prohibited, but not including the wastes of the primary processes of
mining, logging, sawmilling, farming, or manufacturing.
   "MULTIPLE HOUSING FACILITY." A housing facility containing more than one (1)
dwelling unit under one (1) roof.
   "OCCUPANT." Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall
be in actual possession of any dwelling unit or of any other improved real
property, either as owner or as a tenant.
   "PERSON." Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint stock
company, trust, estate, political subdivision or organization of any kind, or
their legal representative, agent or assigns.
   "PROCESSING." Incinerating, composting, baling, shredding, salvaging,
compacting and other processes whereby sold waste characteristics are modified
or solid waste quantity is reduced.
   "SOLID WASTE." Any garbage, refuse, sludge and other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting
from industrial, commercial, mining (excluding coal mining waste, coal mining
by products, refuse and overburden), and agricultural operations, and from
community activities, but does not include solid or dissolved materials in
irrigation return flows or industrial discharges.
      (1)   "COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE." Solid waste resulting from the operating
of any commercial, industrial, institutional or agricultural establishment.
      (2)   "RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE." Solid waste resulting from the
maintenance and operation of dwelling units.
   "SOLID WASTE ADVISORY COMMITTEE." A committee appointed by the county judge
executive with approval of the City Council for the purpose of advising and
aiding the City Council in all matters relative to solid waste management. The
Committee shall consist of eight (8) members.
   "SOLID WASTE CONTAINER." Receptacle used by any person to store solid waste
during the interval between solid waste collections.
   "SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL." The process of discarding or getting rid of unwanted
material, in particular, the final disposition of solid waste by man.
   "SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT." The administration of solid waste activities;
storage, collection, source separation, transportation, processing, treatment
and disposal.
   "STORAGE." Keeping, maintaining or storing solid waste from the time of its
production until the time of its collection.
   "TRANSPORTATION." The transporting of solid waste from the place of
collection or processing to a solid waste processing facility or solid waste
disposal area.
   "YARD WASTE." Grass clippings, leaves, tree trimmings.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)
§ 53.002  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Director, through the advisement and consent of the Solid Waste
Advisory Committee, shall make, amend, revoke, and enforce reasonable rules and
regulations, governing, but not limited to:
      (1)   Preparation, drainage and wrapping of garbage deposited in solid
waste containers.
      (2)   Specifications for solid waste containers, including the type,
composition, equipment, size and shape thereof.
      (3)   Identification of solid waste containers and of the covers thereof,
and of equipment thereto appertaining, if any.
      (4)   Weight limitations on the combined weight of solid waste containers
and the content thereof, and weight and size limitations on bundles of solid
waste too large for solid waste containers.
      (5)   Storage of solid waste in solid waste containers.
      (6)   Sanitation, maintenance and replacement of solid waste containers.
      (7)   Schedules of any routes for collection and transportation of solid
waste.
      (8)   Collection points of solid waste containers.
      (9)   Collection points of solid waste containers.
      (10)   Processing facilities and fees for the use thereof.
      (11)   Disposal facilities and fees for the use thereof.
      (12)   Records of quantity and type of wastes received at processing and/
or disposal facilities.
      (13)   Handling of special wastes such as sludge, ashes, agriculture,
construction, bulky items, tires, automobiles, oils, greases, and the like.
      (14)   Cataloging by the solid waste haulers of all customers, actual and
identified, on said hauler’s route.
      (15)   Assignment of roads not covered by haulers.
      (16)   One (1) citizen my catalogue his or her name with operator along
with no more than two (2) other hardship case names — neighbor, friend, family
member.
   (B)   A copy of any and all rules and regulations made and promulgated under
the provisions hereof shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk of the
city.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)
§ 53.003  PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Dispose of garbage, refuse, rubbish or debris by illegally dumping
same on any premises in the city with or without the consent of the owner of
the premises;
   (B)   Dump or permit the illegal dumping of garbage, refuse, rubbish, and
debris on any property within the city limits;
   (C)   Deposit solid waste in any solid waste container other than his or her
own, without the written consent of the owner of such container and/or, with
the intent of avoiding payment of the service charge hereinafter provided for
solid waste collection and disposal;
   (D)   Fail to have solid waste disposed of as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Interfere in any manner with solid waste collection and transportation
equipment, duties as such;
   (F)   Dispose of dead animals in any container to be collected by the sold
waste collection service;
   (G)   Own or operate a dump;
   (H)   Dispose of solid waste at any facility or location which is not
approved by the city and the Kentucky Department for Environmental Protection;
   (I)   Engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing or
disposing of solid waste within the city without a permit issued by the city;
   (J)   Fail to be catalogued by a permit holder for proper collection and
disposal as specified in §§
53.060 through
53.065;
   (K)   Violate any section of this chapter or any other rule or regulation
promulgated under the authority of §
53.002.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)  Penalty, see §
53.999
SOLID WASTE STORAGE
§ 53.010  STORAGE CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   The occupant or owner of every dwelling unit and of every institutional,
commercial or business, industrial or agricultural establishment producing
solid waste within Mount Vernon, shall provide sufficient and adequate
containers for the storage of all solid waste except bulky rubbish and
demolition and construction waste to serve each such dwelling unit and/or
establishment; and to maintain such solid waste containers at all time in good
repair.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.011  STORED IN MANNER PRESCRIBED BY ORDINANCE.
   The occupant or owner of every dwelling unit and of every institutional,
commercial, industrial, agricultural or business establishment shall place all
solid waste to be collected in proper solid waste containers, except as
otherwise provide herein, and shall maintain such solid waste containers and
the area surrounding them in a clean, neat and sanitary condition at all times.
Solid waste shall be stored in a manner that will not provide harborage to
rodents and vermin and will not create a fire hazard.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)
§ 53.012  STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   Residential solid waste shall be stored in containers of not more than
thirty-five (35) gallons nor less than ten (10) gallons in nominal capacity.
Containers shall be leakproof, waterproof, and fitted with a fly-tight lid and
shall be properly covered at all times except when depositing waste therein or
removing the contents thereof. The containers shall have handles, bails or
other suitable lifting devices or features. Containers shall be of a type
originally manufactured for residential solid waste, with tapered sides for
easy emptying. They shall be of light weight and sturdy construction. The
weight of any individual container and contents shall not exceed seventy-five
(75) pounds. Galvanized metal containers, or rubber, fiberglass, or plastic
containers which do not become brittle in cold weather, may be used. Disposable
solid waste containers with suitable frames or containers as approved by the
solid waste coordinator may also be used for storage of residential solid
waste.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.013  STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   Commercial solid waste shall be stored in solid waste containers as approved
by the solid waste coordinator. The containers shall be waterproof, leakproof
and shall be covered at all times except when depositing waste therein or
removing the contents thereof; and shall meet all requirements as set forth by
§
53.002.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.014  YARD WASTE.
   Tree limbs less than four (4) inches in diameter, lumber and brush shall be
securely tied in bundles not larger than forty-eight (48) inches long and
eighteen (18) inches in diameter when not placed in storage containers. The
weight of any individual bundle shall not exceed seventy-five (75) pounds. Yard
wastes shall be stored in containers so constructed and maintained as to
prevent the dispersal of wastes placed therein upon adjacent premises, or upon
adjacent public rights of way. The weight of any individual container and
content shall not exceed seventy-five (75) pounds.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.015  AIR TIGHT CONTAINERS.
   No owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any building or dwelling may leave
outside the dwelling or building, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or unattended icebox, refrigerator or other receptacle that has an
airtight door without first removing the door.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)  Penalty, see §
53.999
COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE
§ 53.025  CITY RESPONSIBILITY DEFINED.
   The city shall provide for the collection of solid waste as follows:
   (A)   The city shall provide for the collection of all residential solid
waste in the city, provided, however, that the city may provide the collection
service by contracting with a person, county, or other city or a combination
thereof, for the entire city or portions thereof, as deemed to be in the best
interest of the city.
   (B)   The city may, at its discretion, provide commercial solid waste
collection services upon specific application of the owners or persons in
charge thereof. However, in the event that such application is not made or
approved, it shall be the duty of such establishment to provide for collection
of all solid waste produced upon such premises.
   (C)   Proper use of city collection services shall be defined by city
ordinances.
   (D)   Operators, public and private, operating within cities shall catalogue
each customer and forward same to county officials.
   (E)   City residents shall catalogue with operators—haulers or transfer
station.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.026  COLLECTION OF WASTE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   Residents outside city limits will be provided collection services by the
permit holder for their area. Sections 53.027 through 53.032 shall apply to
those using such a service. Residents outside city limits that do not subscribe
to a collection service shall take their wastes to an approved transfer station
or other facility approved by the county and complying with all requirements of
KRS 224.830, 224.855, and rules and regulations adopted thereunder for disposal
fees for such disposal. Those residents utilizing the transfer station shall
catalogue with the operator of that station.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.027  COLLECTION POINTS.
   Tree limbs and yard wastes, as described in §
53.014, shall be placed within five feet of the nearest public road for
collection. Solid waste containers as required by this chapter for the storage
of other residential solid waste shall be placed within five (5) feet of the
nearest public road for collection. Any solid waste containers, tree limbs,
yard wastes, or other solid waste permitted by this chapter to be placed at the
road for collection. All reusable containers shall be removed from the road
side within eight (8) hours after collection.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.028  BULKY RUBBISH.
   The solid waste coordinator shall establish the procedures for collection of
bulky rubbish from residential units within the county. Bulky rubbish shall be
collected by the permit holder within two (2) weeks upon request. The charges
are to be negotiated between the permit holder and generator prior to
collection. If agreement cannot be reached, the matter may be submitted to the
city Solid Waste Advisory Committee for recommendation to the county for a
decision which shall be binding.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.029  COLLECTION FREQUENCY.
   The following collection frequencies shall apply to collections of solid
waste within the county: all residents’ solid waste, other than bulky rubbish,
shall be collected once each week. At least ninety-six (96) hours shall
intervene between collections. All commercial solid waste shall be collected at
least once weekly and shall be collected at such lesser intervals as may be
fixed by the Solid Waste Coordinator or requested by the commercial
establishment upon determination that such lesser intervals are necessary for
the preservation of the health and/or safety of the public. All collections
shall be made between 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.030  OWNERSHIP OF SOLID WASTE.
   All garbage and refuse placed in authorized storage containers and placed at
the point of collection defined in §
53.027, shall become the property of the permit holder or its duly authorized
agent and no person shall be allowed to separate, carry off or dispose of the
same without the written permission of the Director.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.031  COLLECTOR’S RESPONSIBILITY DEFINED.
   Solid waste collectors, permitted by the city collection agency operating
under a permit agreement with or permitted by the city shall be responsible for
the collection of solid waste from the designated pickup location to the
transportation vehicle provided the solid waste was stored in compliance with
the provisions set forth in this chapter. Any spillage or blowing litter caused
as a result of the duties of the solid waste collector shall be collected and
placed in the transportation vehicle by the solid waste collector.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.032  PROHIBITED ITEMS.
   The following items are unacceptable and shall not be placed in containers
for collection:
   (A)   Fire, embers, ashes, and other such fire causing materials.
   (B)   Liquids, other than those contained in customary household solid
waste.
   (C)   Poisons.
   (D)   Herbicides.
   (E)   Pesticides.
   (F)   Chemicals.
   (G)   Explosives or other volatile substances.
   (H)   Dead animals.
   (I)   Toxic wastes.
   (J)   Sludge or semi-solid fluids.
   (K)   Gasoline, oils or other liquid hydrocarbons.
   (L)   Motor vehicles or motor vehicle remnants.
   (M)   Animal wastes.
   (N)   Nuclear or radioactive wastes.
   (O)   All other hazardous wastes.
   (P)   All other materials not included in the definition of solid waste.
   (Q)   Any items specifically listed as unacceptable items for disposal at
the sanitary landfill used.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE
§ 53.045  COLLECTION VEHICLE STANDARDS.
   All transportation vehicles shall be maintained in a safe, clean and
sanitary condition, and shall be so constructed, maintained and operated as to
prevent spillage of solid waste therefrom. All vehicles to be used for
transportation of solid waste shall be constructed with watertight bodies and
with covers which shall be an integral part of the vehicle or shall be a
separate cover of suitable material with fasteners designed to secure all sides
of the cover to the vehicle and shall be secured whenever the vehicle is
transporting solid waste, or, as an alternate, the entire bodies thereof shall
be enclosed, with only loading hoppers exposed. No solid waste shall be
transported in the loading hoppers. They shall be cleaned as often as necessary
to prevent a nuisance and insect breeding and shall be maintained in good
repair.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE
§ 53.050  DISPOSAL IN APPROVED SITES.
   Solid wastes shall be deposited at a processing facility or disposal area
approved by the county and complying with all requirements of KRS 224.830,
224.835, 224.855, and the rules and regulations adopted thereunder. The county
may designate the processing or disposal facility to be utilized by persons
operating under §§
53.060 through
53.065. Waste may also be deposited at a county approved transfer station which
hauls to a permitted facility as described in the section.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.051  HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL.
   Hazardous wastes under provisions will require special handling and shall be
disposed of only in a manner authorized by state regulations.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
PERMITTING
§ 53.060  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person may engage in the business of residential or commercial solid
waste collection unless he holds a permit issued by the city requiring him or
her to collect, catalogue customers, transport and dispose of solid wastes and
describing the area for which the permit is issued. Permit holders shall comply
with all provisions outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.061  ESTABLISHMENT OF PERMIT.
   The city shall determine the area for which a permit is granted.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.062  GRANTING A PERMIT.
   The city shall advertise and seek proposals to serve each permitted area.
Applications for permits shall be filed with the city on forms prescribed by
the Director. The city may grant a permit only upon finding that the applicant
will render prompt, efficient, and continuing service to the area for which the
permit is granted and that the applicant has sufficient equipment and personnel
to render service to all persons generating solid waste within the service
area. A permit shall be granted for a term of one (1) year and shall be
renewable. No permit shall be assignable. Subcontracts are to be approved by
the Mount Vernon City Council prior to entering into subcontracting. The Mount
Vernon City Council shall grant permits to (i) haulers, (ii) convenience
centers, (iii) transfer stations and (iv) recycling centers or any combination
of the above to operate under the Solid Waste Management Program of Mount
Vernon, Kentucky. The Mount Vernon City Council will not permit convenience
centers, transfer stations or recycling centers that are located within the
corporate limits of the county’s three (3) incorporated cities, namely,
Brodhead, Livingston and Mt. Vernon, without an official resolution from the
governing body of said city authorizing the permitting procedure above
described.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.064  FEE APPROVAL.
   Each household may negotiate with its hauler the rate it pays for solid
waste collection. Fee schedules are to be agreed on between the customer and
the solid waste collector. The Mount Vernon City Council, however, reserves the
right to approve the maximum charge whish may be levied by solid waste
collectors, convenience center operators, transfer station operators and
recycling center operators or any combination of the above.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.065  TERMINATION OF PERMIT HOLDER.
   A solid waste collector granted a permit under this chapter shall give
ninety (90) days’ written notice to the Mount Vernon City Council before
abandoning the permit. The City Council may terminate or suspend all or any
portion of permit for failure to comply with any provision of this chapter, or
the provisions outlined in the permit agreement, failure to render prompt and
effective service or failure to comply with authorized fee schedules.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
SERVICE CHARGES
§ 53.075  FEES.
   Each household may negotiate with its hauler the rate it pays for solid
waste collection. Fee schedules are to be agreed on between the customer and
the solid waste collector. The Mount Vernon City Council, however, reserves the
right to approve the maximum charge which may be levied by solid waste
collectors, convenience center operators, transfer station operators and
recycling center operators or any combination of the above.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)
§ 53.076  DELINQUENCY.
   All unpaid fees shall become delinquent if payment is not received within
thirty (30) days of the notice due, and shall result in the termination of all
solid waste collection services provided by the permit holder until payment is
received. The authorized collection service may enforce collection of
delinquent bills by bringing proper civil legal action against the occupant of
any dwelling unit or owner of any commercial establishment to recover any sums
due plus a reasonable attorney’s fee, court costs and any other costs involved
in such collection action.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.077  UNCOLLECTED FEES.
   All uncollected fees, after judgment, shall be placed on record in the
locality where the property is located, as any other judgment lien, and shall
be released when paid.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)
PUBLIC NUISANCES AND LITTER IN GENERAL
§ 53.090  LITTER IN GENERAL.
   No person shall throw, drop, deposit, discard, or otherwise dispose of
litter upon any public place in the county or upon any private property or in
any waters within the jurisdiction of the city whether from a vehicle or
otherwise except in the area, litter receptacle, sanitary landfill, or transfer
station, designated and approved by the Solid Waste Coordinator and the Mayor.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.091  ILLEGAL DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   No person shall throw, drop, deposit, discard, or otherwise dispose of solid
waste upon any public place in the county or upon any private property or in
any waters within the jurisdiction of the city whether from a vehicle or
otherwise except in a permitted landfill or transfer station designated and
approved by the Solid Waste Coordinator, Solid Waste Advisory Committee and
city.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.092  NOTIFICATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Director to serve or cause to be served a notice
upon the owner of occupant of any premises on which there is kept or maintained
any nuisance in violation of the provisions of this chapter and to demand the
abatement of the nuisance within fifteen (15) days.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)
§ 53.093  NON-COMPLIANCE.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within fifteen (15)
days, the county may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the
expense of the abatement shall be charged and paid by such owner or occupant.
Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for forty-five (45) days after
that charge has been rendered, the city may file a statement of lien claim
against the property.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)
§ 53.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or any
lawful rules or regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not less than twenty-five ($25.00) dollars nor
more than five hundred ($500.00) dollars.
   (B)   Violators of this chapter may be issued a citation by the Solid Waste
Coordinator.
   (C)   In addition to or in lieu of any other penalty, such person may in the
sound discretion of the City Council, be directed by the Council, to pick up
and remove from any public place or any private place waste deposited thereof
by anyone prior to the date of the execution of the sentence. Violators of
these regulations may be issued a citation by the city police, Kentucky State
Police, county sheriff, peace officer or solid waste coordinator as designated
by the Mount Vernon City Council. Offenders may be cited for the offense by
means of a citation, summons or other means provided by law.
(Ord. 2008-7, passed 10-27-08)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
   
70.06   Authority to erect signs
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Defective devices
   
70.21   Temporary control of devices
 
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES." Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   "BOULEVARD." Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is
required to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   "BUSINESS DISTRICT." Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   "CHIEF OF POLICE." The Chief Of Police or other person or persons authorized
by the legislative body to direct the implementation and enforcement of the
provisions of this traffic code.
   "CROSSWALK." That portion of the roadway included within the extension of
the sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as mav be leqallv designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   "CURB." The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   "FUNERAL PROCESSION."  Two (2) or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a
pennant attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching
traffic.
   "INTERSECTION."  That part of the public way embraced within the extensions
of the street lines of two (2) or more streets which join at an angle whether
or not one such street crosses the other.
   "OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES."  All signs, signals, warnings,
directions, markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority
of the Chief of Police.
   "ONE-WAY STREET."  A street in which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   "OPERATOR."  Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   "PARK."  When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   "PEDESTRIAN."  Any person afoot.
   "PLAY STREET."  Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   "POLICE DEPARTMENT."  The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03  or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   "PUBLIC WAY."  The entire width between property lines of every way,
dedicated passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths
and foot paths.
   "REVERSE TURN."  To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   "RIGHT-OF-WAY."  The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   "ROADWAY."  That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicle travel.
   "SIDEWALK."  That portion of the street between the curb and the property
line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   "STOPPING."  As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is
actually necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   "STREET."  Every public way, including alleys.
   "TRAFFIC."  Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and
other conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   "VEHICLE."  Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or
property over or upon the public highways of the Commonwealth and all vehicles
passing over or upon the highways. "MOTOR VEHICLE" Includes all vehicles, as
defined above except, road rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on
which power shovels are mounted; construction equipment customarily used only
on the site of construction and which is not practical for the transportation
of persons or property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon
rails; vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires whiles
being operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more
than five (5) miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; and vehicles
propelled by muscular power.
(KRS 189.010(19))
§ 70.02  REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 70.03  POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04  AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05  TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police shall, at his discretion, have
authority to impose such traffic regulations as he may deem necessary for
temporary periods not to exceed two (2) weeks.  If these temporary regulations
are necessary for a period longer than two (2) weeks, the City Clerk/Treasurer
shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
§ 70.06  AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized and required to mark with proper
signs and signals such major and through streets as have been or may hereafter
be so designated by ordinance enacted by the City Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized and required to erect and maintain
suitable signs for the designation of one-way streets.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15  SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go":  Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn.  However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or "Caution" when shown following the green or
"Go" signal:  Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection.  Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter
and clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or "Stop":  Vehicular traffic facing the
signal shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or
at such other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall
remain standing until green or "Go" is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone:  Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing yellow alone:  Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
such signal.
   (F)   "Yield Right-of-Way":  Vehicular traffic facing the "Yield Right-of-
Way" sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way.  All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way.  No vehicle facing a "Yield Right-of-Way"
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights:  When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction or flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear.  However, when
flashing yellow lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane.  Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them.  If flashing yellow lights show above a lane, the lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
   Penalty, see §
70.99
   Statutory reference:
      Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16  ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Chief of Police shall determine the character of all official traffic-
control devices and shall have the exclusive right to establish and maintain
all official traffic-control devices in the city, when and as required under
this traffic code, and may place and maintain such additional traffic-control
devices as he may deem necessary.  All traffic-control devices shall be the
same general type and all such traffic devices employed to indicate one
particular warning or regulations shall be uniform and as far as possible shall
be placed uniformly.  All signs shall conform to those recommended by the
National Conference on Street and Highway Safety.
§ 70.17  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer.  However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign shall be approved by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18  INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal.  No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising.  Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the Chief of Police is empowered forthwith to remove it or
cause it to be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20  DEFECTIVE DEVICES.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required shall be
enforceable against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation the sign herein required is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.  However, when any
particular section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required,
such section shall be effective without signs being placed to give notice
thereof.
§ 70.21  TEMPORARY CONTROL OF DEVICES.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall be
fined not more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.30 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or both.
(KRS 189.378)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC RULES
   Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Following emergency vehicles; driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission
   
71.28   Truck traffic prohibited in certain locations
Funeral Processions
   
71.30   Funeral procession
OPERATIONS GENERALLY
§ 71.01  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the Chief of Police to be of special or
critical importance to the movement of traffic shall be caused by him to be
marked in such distinctive manner as to indicate such importance.  Should the
operator of any vehicle enter any intersection so marked when there is
insufficient room on the other side of the intersection to accommodate the
vehicle, the indication of any traffic-control signal notwithstanding, he shall
be deemed to have violated this division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02  REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction within
an intersection or upon any street in a business district or where authorized
signs are erected to prohibit the movement or at any other location unless the
movement can be made with reasonable safety to other users of the street and
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic that may be affected
by such movement.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03  BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement.  A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04  VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.  On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building, the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.  The
operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley
from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
Penalty, see §
70.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15  DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25  OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle in a
careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians and
other vehicles upon the roadway.  No person shall willfully operate any vehicle
on any highway in such a manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.26  FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES; DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle not on official
duty to follow an authorized emergency vehicle, traveling in response to a fire
alarm or other emergency, closer than five hundred (500) feet, or to park any
vehicle within a block in any direction of the location where these vehicles
are responding to a fire alarm.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive over any
unprotected hose of the Fire Department when laid down on any street or private
driveway, to be used at any fire, or alarm of fire, or for any other purpose,
without the consent of the Fire Department official in command or on duty at
such point.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.27  SMOKE EMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in such manner as to cause it to
emit unnecessary smoke, gas, or vapor.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.28  TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate a truck
larger than 1-1/2 ton capacity on Main Street between the intersection of Main
and Richmond Street and the intersection of Main and First Street.
Penalty, see §
70.99
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 71.30  FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red, or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not a part of a funeral
procession shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other
act for the purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral
processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse, or other vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing yellow lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road, or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town, or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
   Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street sweeping
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited;    towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking for persons with disabilities who have permits
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Required notice to owner
   
72.22   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency route
Parking Meters
   
72.50   Definitions
   
72.51   Parking meter zones
   
72.52   Time limits; money to be placed in meters
   
72.53   Payment for meters and installation
   
72.54   Placement of parking meters
   
72.55   Markings on metered spaces
   
72.56   Manner of parking
   
72.57   Overtime parking
   
72.58   Tampering with parking meters
   
72.59   Depositing slugs
   
72.60   Hours when meters in force
   
72.61   Violations; notice; penalty
   
72.62   Proceeds to be deposited in Parking Meter Street Fund
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01  OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within 12 inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes.  Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The Chief of Police may establish diagonal parking at certain places,
requiring the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a
certain portion of the roadway adjacent thereto.  However, diagonal parking
shall not be established where the roadway space required therefor would be
within ten feet of the center line of any street.  The Chief of Police shall
designate such places by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the
pavement the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which
such vehicle shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03  LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a sidewalk ramp provided for persons with disabilities;
      (3)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (5)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking;
      (6)   Within thirty (30) feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (7)   On any controlled access highway;
      (8)   Within a highway tunnel;
      (9)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant; or
      (10)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area.
   (C)   The restrictions in division (A)(5) above shall not apply to sheriffs
and their deputies or police officers when operating properly identified
vehicles during performance of their official duties.
(KRS 189.450(5) - (7)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04  RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall determine on what streets or portions
thereof stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited.  Whenever under
authority of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit
is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are
restricted to parking for persons with disabilities, it shall be the duty of
the Chief of Police to erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof.  However,
in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith, the Chief of Police
may cause the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking
is prohibited at all times to be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05  PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET SWEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a motor vehicle to be parked
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. daily on the following streets:
   (A)   Main Street from the intersection of First Street west to the railroad
crossing.
   (B)   Richmond Street from the railroad crossing to Main Street.
   (C)   First Street from U.S. 25 to Main Street.
   (D)   Church Street from U.S. 25 to Main Street.
(Ord. 349, passed  -  - )  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06  PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for  a period of forty-eight (48)
hours or longer.  If any vehicle is left parked in any one place on any of the
public ways or streets of the city for a period of forty-eight (48) hours or
longer it shall be presumed  abandoned, and shall be subject to owner or person
in whose name the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible
for the violation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07    PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized, whenever in his judgment it is
necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade or procession, to
erect temporary traffic signs to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent such
parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§ 71.40 through 71.51
§ 72.08    PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such property or facility,
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespass
in violation of division (A) of this section, the owner, lessee, or person in
charge of the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle
removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner's
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B).
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09    OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10  PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway.  However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11  DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12  PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES WHO HAVE PERMITS.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for persons with disabilities, when operated by a
person with a disability, or when transporting a person with a disability, may
be parked in a designated parking place for persons with disabilities who have
permits, or when parked in a metered parking space may be parked for two hours
for no fee, or when parked where any parking limit is imposed may be parked for
two hours in excess of the parking limit.  The motor vehicle may be parked in a
loading zone for that period of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of
the person with a disability to or from the parked vehicle, but in no
circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a "no stopping" or "no
parking" zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire land or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.  Penalty, see §
70.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20  IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21  REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority, or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority, or by private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority, or by private person or business, the police, other authority,
or private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the State
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the  registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281 and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number, and vehicle identification numberof the vehicle, of the location of the
vehicle, and of the requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) is placed in a garage or other
storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the notice
provided in division(A) by certified mail to the registered owner at the
address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined
in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of, or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number, and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, the location of the vehicle, and the amount of reasonable charges due
on the vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as
provided herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage
fees accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B)
shall not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275 (1), (2))
§ 72.22  SALE OF VEHICLE.
   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles in
either a private capacity or for the city who has substantially complied with
the requirements of §
72.21 shall have a lien on the motor vehicle for the reasonable or agreed
charges for storing or towing the vehicle as long as it remains in his
possession. If after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or agreed charges for
storing or towing a motor vehicle have not been paid, the motor vehicle may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner has been notified by certified mail ten
days prior to the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of
any vehicle pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued
charges for towing, transporting, and storage, the sale and collection of
proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment
of unpaid towing, transporting, and storage charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. This lien shall be subject to prior recorded
liens.
(KRS 376.275(3))
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35  ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police finds that falling snow, sleet, or
freezing rain will create a condition which makes it necessary that the parking
of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or whenever he finds
on the basis of a firm forecast of snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the
weather conditions so forecasted may create a condition making it necessary
that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized to announce such prohibition,
to become effective at a time specified by him, but not less than one hour
after such announcement. After the effective time of such prohibition no person
shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow
emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs
after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of
parking announced by the Chief of Police under the authority of this section
shall remain in effect until he announces the termination of the snow
emergency, in part or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking
authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
   (B)   Each snow emergency parking regulation announcement by the Chief of
Police shall be made between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. by means of
broadcasts or telecasts from not less than two radio or television stations
with a normal operating range covering the city, and, if possible, also be made
through newspapers of general circulation. Each such announcement shall state
the time these snow emergency parking regulations become effective.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall make or cause to be made a record of the
date and time when the announcement of a snow emergency parking regulation is
first made to the public, and the date, time, and conditions of any
announcements made to the public of the termination of each snow emergency
parking regulations, either in part or in whole, in accordance with §
72.36.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.36  TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police shall find that some or all of the conditions
which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist, he is
authorized to declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole,
effective immediately on announcement. If such announcement is made other than
between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37  SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term "SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE" shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police. On such street or highway designated as a snow emergency route, the
Chief shall post special signs to this effect.
Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING METERS
§ 72.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "HIGHWAY" or "STREET." Any public street, avenue, road, boulevard, or other
public place within the city established for the use of vehicles.
   "OPERATOR." Every individual who shall operate a motor vehicle as the owner
thereof or as the agent, employee, or permittee of the owner.
   "VEHICLE." Any device in or upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported upon a highway or street.
(Ord. 203, passed -47)
§ 72.51  PARKING METER ZONES.
   (A)   There are hereby established and fixed certain zones to be known as
parking meter zones in and on the following streets and highways in the city:
      (1) All of Main Street between First Street and the railroad crossing on
West Main Street excepting therefrom only sufficient space to be designated and
located by the City Chief of Police for the parking of three motor vehicles in
front of the courthouse for use by the County Sheriff and two deputies.
      (2)   All of Church Street between U.S. Highway No. 150 and Main Street.
      (3)   From time to time hereafter as traffic conditions may require in
such other streets or highways as may be designated by ordinance of the City
Council for the location of such zones.
   (B)   In any of the parking meter zones or any part or portion of
separately-designated parking meter zones, the Council, in its discretion, may
cause parking meters to be installed in each space in such zones available for
parking of vehicles and shall see that there shall be plainly indicated on each
of the meters the time limitation for parking. The time limitation shall be
designated by appropriate notice posted in the proximity of the meters.
(Ord. 203, passed -47)
§ 72.52  TIME LIMITS; MONEY TO BE PLACED IN METERS.
   The time limit for parking in the zones designated in §
72.51, the charge made for the use of each of the parking spaces, and the money
to be placed in the meter in each particular parking space, shall be as
follows:
Minutes Fee
Minutes Fee
12      $.01
24      .02
36      .03
48      .04
60      .05
72      .06
84      .07
96      .08
108     .09
120     .10
 
(Ord. 203, passed - -47)
§ 72.53  PAYMENT FOR METERS AND INSTALLATION.
   The payment for the installation and maintenance of all parking meters is to
be provided for solely from the receipts, funds, and revenues obtained from the
operation of the parking meters without in any manner obligating the city to
pay for same from any other source.
(Ord. 203, passed 10-1-47)
§ 72.54  PLACEMENT OF PARKING METERS.
   Parking meters installed in the parking meter zones established as provided
in §
72.51, shall be placed upon the curb or other portion of the street or sidewalk
adjacent to the individual parking places hereinafter described in §
72.55. Each parking meter shall be placed or set in such a manner as to show or
display by a signal that the parking space adjacent to the meter is or is not
legally in use. Each parking meter installed, when in operation, shall indicate
by some appropria-te device the duration of the period of legal parking time
and upon expiration of this period shall indicate illegal parking.
(Ord. 203, passed 10-1-47)
§ 72.55  MARKINGS ON METERED SPACES.
   The Chief of Police shall have lines or markings painted or placed upon the
curb or the street adjacent to each parking meter for the purpose of
designating the parking space for which the meter is to be used and each
vehicle parking adjacent to any parking meter shall park within the lines or
markings so established. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this
subchapter to park any vehicle across any such line or marking or to park the
vehicle in such a position that the vehicle is not entirely within the area so
designated by the lines or markings.
(Ord. 203, passed L0-1-47) Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.56  MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   When a parking space in any parking meter zone is parallel with the
adjacent curb or sidewalk, any vehicle in the parking space shall be parked so
that the right front wheel of the vehicle shall be nearest to the parking
meter.
   (B)   When the parking space in any parking meter zone is diagonal with the
adjacent curb or sidewalk, any vehicle in the parking space shall be parked so
that the center of the front of the vehicle shall be nearest to the parking
meter.
(Ord. 203, passed 10-1-47)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.57  OVERTIME PARKING.
   (A)   When a vehicle is parked in any parking space adjacent to which a
parking meter is located, the operator of the vehicle shall, upon entering the
parking space, immediately deposit or cause to be deposited a coin or coins of
the United States in the parking meter.  Failure to deposit the coin shall
constitute a violation of this subchapter.  Upon the deposit of the coin or
coins and the placing of the parking meter in operation, the parking meter
adjacent to the parking meter may be lawfully occupied by the vehicle during
the parking time paid for in accordance with the schedule set forth in §
72.52.  If the vehicle remains parked in any parking meter space beyond the
parking time so paid for, the parking meter shall by its dial and pointer
indicate the illegal parking, and in the event the vehicle is parked overtime
or beyond the period of parking time paid for, the parking of the vehicle in
this manner shall be a violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this
subchapter for any operator to cause, allow, permit, or suffer any vehicle to
be parked overtime or beyond the period of legal parking time paid for as
provided in the schedule set forth in §
72.52.
(Ord. 203, passed 10-1-47)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.58  TAMPERING WITH PARKING METERS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this subchapter
for any person or operator to deface, injure, tamper with, open, break,
destroy, or impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed.
(Ord. 203, passed 10-1-47)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.59  DEPOSITING SLUGS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter to deposit or cause
to be deposited in any parking meter, any slug, device, piece of metal, or
other substitute for a coin of the United States.
(Ord. 203, passed 10-1-47)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.60  HOURS WHEN METERS IN FORCE.
   (A)   No parking shall be permitted within the parking meter zones
established in §
72.51 except in accordance with the provisions and terms of this subchapter,
between the hours of 8:00 a.ml to 6:00 p.m. of each day except Saturdays and
Sundays.  On Saturdays, no vehicle shall be parked within the parking meter
zones except in accordance with the terms and conditions of this subchapter
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to parking on Sundays.
(Ord. 203, passed 10-1-47)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.61  VIOLATIONS; NOTICE; PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the city police officers, acting in accordance
with instructions issued by the City Council, to report:
      (1)   The state registration license number of every vehicle parked in a
parking meter space where the parking meter indicates the vehicle occupying the
parking space adjacent to the parking meter is or has been parked in violation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any other facts or knowledge which may be necessary for a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending the violation.
   (B)   The police officer shall place upon each vehicle parked in violation
of this subchapter a notice to the owner or operator thereof that the vehicle
has been or is parked in violation of the provisions of this subchapter and
instructing the owner or operator to report to the City Clerk/Treasurer in
regard to the violation.  Each owner or operator may pay the sum of five
dollars ($5.00) to the City Clerk/Treasurer within 24 hours of the time the
notice was placed on the vehicle, or deposit the sum in a collection box
provided by the city at selected sites as full penalty for the violation.  In
the event the sum is not paid within 24 hours, the owner or operator shall pay
the sum of fifteen dollars ($15.00) to the Police Judge if the sum is paid
within five days of the violation.  If the owner or operator does not pay the
sums in satisfaction of the violation within five days thereof, the penalty for
the violation shall be the sum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(Ord. 203, passed 10-1-47; Am. Ord., passed 8-29-50; Am. Ord., passed 3-7-51;
Am. Ord. 324, passed 8-11-77; Am. Ord. 13-90, passed 11-5-90)
§ 72.62  PROCEEDS TO BE DEPOSITED IN PARKING METER STREET FUND.
   The coins required to be deposited in parking meters as herein provided
shall be collected and delivered to the City Clerk/Treasurer and deposited in a
special fund to be known as the Parking Meter Street Fund.  The Fund shall be
used to provide for the proper regulation and control of traffic upon the
public streets and highways, the cost of supervision and regulating the parking
of vehicles in the parking meter zones, the cost of purchase, supervision,
protection, inspection, installation, maintenance, collection of coins, control
and use of the parking meters herein described, and for such other governmental
use as the City Council may from time to time determine.
(Ord. 203, passed 10-1-47)
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not more
than two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) for each offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
72.05 shall be fined  a sum not  to exceed ten dollars ($10.00) for the first
offense and not to exceed twenty dollars ($20.00) for the second and each
subsequent offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
72.50 through
72.62 or whoever aids, abets, or assists in the  violation of any  provision of
§§
72.50 through
72.62 shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine
of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) or more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense, or be imprisoned for a term not exceeding ten days
in the county jail, or both, in the discretion of the court. (Ord. 203, passed
10-1-47)
CHAPTER 73:  BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
   Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01  OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
   Penalty, see §
73.99
   (D)   Persons making a left turn are required to extend the left arm out
horizontally.  Right turns shall be indicated by extending the left arm out
horizontally and turned upward at the elbow.  A stop or slowing of a bicycle
shall be indicated by extending either arm out horizontally and turned down at
the elbow.
(KRS Ch. 237)
§ 73.02  OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03  SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as "play streets"
by the Chief of Police and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be
unlawful for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of
any kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04  CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$50.
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
    
I.   Parking prohibited
SCHEDULE I.  PARKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to park motor vehicles on the following streets.
 
Street       Location                              Side   Ord. No. Passage Date
Richmond St. Between the railroad crossing and the Either 7-88     12-9-88
             city limits
                                                                
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   RECREATION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   YARD AND SIMILAR SALES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
   Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.05   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   Dogs running at large
   
90.17   Noise disturbance
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Hunting or killing waterfowl, see §
93.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ABANDON." The relinquishment of all rights and claims by the owner to the
animal. (KRS 257.100(4))
   "AT LARGE." Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   "OWNER." Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it
to remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
§ 90.02  ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another. The animal itself shall be subject to capture, impoundment, and
destruction.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any
animal other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food,
drink, space, or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This division shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purpose;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows,
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act or subject or other federal laws
governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS  525.125
§ 90.04  ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board of Agriculture may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or
killed, any animal found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or
appearing to be injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful
purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two (2) reputable citizens called by him
or her to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to
the destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1) Any animal placed in the custody of a licensee veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten (10) days after written notice
by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner
or his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100(1) - (3))
DOGS
§ 90.15  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG." Any male or female member of the canine family.
§ 90.16  DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property. Any dog permitted to
run at large in violation of this section shall be subject to capture,
impoundment, and destruction.
(Ord. 89, passed 12- -27; Am. Ord. 335, passed 8-13-79) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17  NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or
she occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.02 or
90.04 shall be fined not more than twenty dollars ($20.00) for each offense. 
Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00), imprisoned for not more than twelve (12) months, or
both for each offense.  (KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.16 shall be fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00).  Each day of violation constitutes a separate
offense.  (Ord. 335, passed 8-13-79)
   (D)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
90.17 shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) for each offense.  Each day the violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91. 03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01  OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the Street Superintendent,
the City Engineer, or other authorized person, to make any opening in any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city unless a permit to make the
opening has been obtained prior to commencement of the work.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the Mayor or other proper administrative officer.
Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the legislative body, giving
the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and
depth to be excavated, and such other facts as may be provided for. The permit
shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of
restoration has been posted with the Mayor or other proper administrative
officer, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03  RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the Street
Superintendent, the City Engineer, or other authorized person, and in
accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications approved by the
legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04  BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.06  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Superintendent, City Engineer, or other
authorized person to supervise construction or repair of sidewalks within the
city. He shall cause specifications to be prepared for the construction of the
various kinds of pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative
body for approval. When the specifications are approved, the legislative body
shall advertise for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the
city in construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall contract therefor, for
a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible bidder, who shall
furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful performance of the work. 
The mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts for the
different kinds of work with different parties.
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15  PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16  NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Before the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues on
a road or bridge by the city, the city shall give notice in the manner required
by KRS Chapter 424 of a public hearing to take the sense of the public with
regard to road and bridge matters within the city.  The hearing shall be held
not less than seven (7) nor more than twenty-one (21) days after the first
publication of the notice and before beginning work on any project covered by
this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (1))
§ 91.17  PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing any person may speak with regard to nay proposed
project, and project which he feels should be built or done which has not been
proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any other matter related
to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100 (2), (3))
§ 91.18  HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project in which
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 91.19  SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing for
each project.  A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge
program, provided all projects subsequently undertaken have
been identified at the hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
§ 91.20  EXEMPTION FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provision of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operation.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
were under construction as of July 15, 1980, unless construction was suspended
after that date and the city desires to reactivate the project.
(KRS 174.100 (6), (7))
OBSTRUCTION
§ 91.30  UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31  STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon.  Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32  MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk.  No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see Ch. 94
§ 91.33  REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep  the
sidewalk  abutting his premises free and clear of snow and, to not exceed 12
hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may have
accumulated.
Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Reasonable time" requirement, see § 10.04(D)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction,
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.03   Abatement procedure
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  DEFINITION.
   The word "NUISANCE" is hereby defined as any person doing an unlawful act,
or omitting to perform a duty, or permitting any condition or thing to be or
exist, which act, omission, condition, or thing either:
   (A)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of others;
or
   (B)   Offends decency; or
   (C)   Is offensive to the senses; or
   (D)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch, or drainage; or
   (E)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
   (F)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of property of others.
(Ord. 4-90, passed 5-1-90)
§ 92.02  CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
    The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be
or remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance:
   (A)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber, or other things.
   (C)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes, and
other vermin.
   (D)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located.
   (E)   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including animal noises.
   (F)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches.
   (G)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death.
   (H)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal, or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes, or other
substances.
   (I)   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained.
   (J)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground.
   (K)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders in unreasonable
quantities.
(Ord. 4-90, passed 5-1-90)
§ 92.03  ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the city, a duly
designated officer of the city shall give five days written notice to the owner
or occupant of the property upon which such a nuisance exists or upon the
person causing or maintaining the nuisance. The notice to abate a nuisance
issued under the provisions shall contain the following:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a
stated time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances.
      (2)   The location of the nuisance, if it is stationary.
      (3)   A description of what constitutes a nuisance.
      (4)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance.
      (5)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, the city will abate
such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person.
   (B)   The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served by either hand-delivery
or certified mail.
   (C)   Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance
was served pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to abate the nuisance,
the city shall proceed to abate the nuisance and shall prepare a statement of
costs incurred in the abatement.  Any and all costs incurred by the city in the
abatement of a nuisance under the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
lien against the property upon which the nuisance existed, which lien shall be
filed, proven and collected as provided for by law.  Such lien shall be notice
to all persons from the time of its recording, shall bear interest at the legal
rate thereafter until satisfied, and shall be added to the tax bill for the
premises upon which the nuisance existed.
(Ord. 4-90, passed 5-1-90)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense.  Each day's continued violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
CHAPTER 93:  RECREATION
   Section
   
93.01   Swimming at Lake Linville
   
93.02   Watercraft with gas engines on city reservoir
   
93.03   Open fires around Lake Linville prohibited
   
93.04   Hunting or killing waterfowl on Lake Linville prohibited
   
93.05   Camping rules for recreational areas of Lake Linville
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  SWIMMING AT LAKE LINVILLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to swim in Lake Linville at any
place other than the beach area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any child in
his or her custody or within his or her control to violate this section.
(Ord. 338, passed  -  -  ) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02  WATERCRAFT WITH GAS ENGINES ON CITY RESERVOIR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any watercraft
propelled by an internal combustion engine of more than ten horsepower upon the
city reservoir between September 10 and June 10.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person at any time to operate any
watercraft propelled by an internal combustion engine of more than ten
horsepower upon the Little Renfro Creek fork of the reservoir to the southwest
of the buoy line separating the fork from the main body of the reservoir.
(Ord. 330, passed 5-8-78) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03  OPEN FIRES AROUND LAKE LINVILLE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, maintain, or ignite an open
fire on land belonging to the city which surrounds Lake Linville.
(Ord. 351, passed  -  -  ) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04  HUNTING OR KILLING WATERFOWL ON LAKE LINVILLE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or kill waterfowl on Lake
Linville or the land of the city which surrounds said lake except hunting shall
be permitted on that portion of the city’s land which lies on the south side of
the lake and extends from the Burgess Hysinger corner to Kentucky Highway 1326.
(Ord. 1-89, passed 2-14-89; Am. Ord. 15-90, passed 1-7-91)
§ 93.05  CAMPING RULES FOR RECREATIONAL AREAS OF LAKE LINVILLE.
   Camping of any kind or by any means around Lake Linville shall be in the
designated areas only.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 4-19-04) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall be guilty of a violation and shall
be fined not less than $25 nor more than $250 for each offense.  Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 330, passed 5-8-78)
   (B)   Any person who violates §
93.03 shall be fined not more than $25 for the first offense and not more than
$50 for the second and each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 351, passed  -  -  )
   (C)   Any person violating §
93.04 shall be fined the sum of $50.
   (D)   (1)   Any person or group violating §
93.05 shall be subject to a written citation issued by law enforcement
authorities.
      (2)   Any person or group found guilty of violating §
93.05 shall be subject to fines and penalties not to exceed the amounts set
forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c).
(Ord. 1-89, passed 2-14-89; Am. Ord. 2004-1, passed 4-19-04)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Posting notices
   
94.06   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02  TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see §
94.99
Cross-reference:
   Materials on streets and sidewalks, see §
91.32
§ 94.03  HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04  SWEEP ING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  POSTING NOTICES.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster, or other paper or device
which is calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamp post,
public utility pole, or shade tree, or upon any public structure or building,
except as may be authorized by law.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06  LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private 
property within  the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). 
Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
CHAPTER 95:  YARD AND SIMILAR SALES
Section
   
95.01   Yard sales on city property prohibited without city approval
§ 95.01  YARD SALES ON CITY PROPERTY PROHIBITED WITHOUT CITY APPROVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct a yard sale or similar sale on any
properties owned by the City of Mt. Vernon without City Council approval.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 7-11-05)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
      
111.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
      
112.   PROHIBITED BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES
      
113.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
      
115.   RESTAURANT TAX
      
116.   INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX
CHAPTER 110:  OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
   Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Imposition of tax
   
110.03   City license, payment of fee required for engaging in business;
compliance required
   
110.04   Due date; partial payment
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License to be displayed
   
110.07   Vehicles to display tag or sticker
   
110.08   Prorated taxes
   
110.09   Duty of police
   
110.10   License tax schedule
Other Specific Businesses
   
110.20   Carnivals and skating rinks
   
110.21   Septic tank cleaning business
   
110.22   Public dances
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ASSOCIATION."  A partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, or any
other form of unincorporated enterprise, owned, or engaged in by two or more
persons.
   "BUSINESS."  An enterprise, activity, or undertaking of any nature conducted
for gain or profit, or conducting by an individual, co-partnership,
association, or any other entity.  This shall not include the usual activities
of boards of trade, chambers of commerce, trade associations, or unions (or
other associations performing the services usually performed by trade
association, or union ); community chest funds or foundations, corporations, or
associations, organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable,
scientific, literary, educational, or civic purposes, or for the prevention of
cruelty to children or animals; clubs or fraternal organizations operated
exclusively for social, literary, educational, or fraternal purposes where no
part of the earnings or income or receipts for such units, groups, or
associations inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
   "BUSINESS RECEIPTS."  The sum total of gross receipts from sales plus gross
credit or charges for work done and performed or services rendered.
   "BUSINESSES, TRADES, PROFESSIONS, OR OTHER ACTIVITIES."  The performing of
any kind of work or the rendering of any kind of personal service.
   "CITY."  City of Mt. Vernon, Kentucky.
   "CORPORATION."  A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the State of Kentucky, or any other state,
territory, or foreign county or dependency.
   "DIRECTOR OF FINANCE."  A licensed certified public accountant appointed to
the position in the city by the Mayor and with the established position in the
city's personnel manual as adopted by the Council.
   "EMPLOYEE."  Any person engaging in or following any trade, occupation,
profession, or activity within the meaning of (L) below.
   "EMPLOYER."  Any individual, person partnership, association, corporation,
governmental body, or unit or administration or agency, or any other entity,
who or that employs one or more persons on a salary, wage, commission, or other
compensation basis.
   "FIDUCIARY."  A person who holds in trust property moneys, or properties, to
which another has a beneficial title or interest, or who receives and controls
income for another person or persons.
   "LICENSEE."  Any person required to file a return or to pay a license fee
under this chapter.
   "NET PROFITS."  The net income from the operation of a business or
enterprise after providing for all costs and expenses incurred in the conduct
thereof.  This amount shall be the same for that business or enterprise as
reported for Kentucky income tax purposes for a given tax period after
deducting all federal taxes paid in that period.
(Ord. 10-99, passed 10-4-99)
§ 110.02  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   That an annual license fee (tax) payable to the City of Mt. Vernon,
Kentucky, for the purpose of a general fund revenue source and for the purpose
of regulating is hereby imposed and levied on all businesses, firms,
corporations, partnerships and proprietorships engaged in the businesses,
trades, occupations and professions hereinafter designated in said city for and
during each license year hereafter from January 1 through December 31 of each
year and succeeding year thereafter.
(Ord. 10-99, passed 10-4-99)
§ 110.03  CITY LICENSE, PAYMENT OF FEE REQUIRED FOR ENGAGING IN BUSINESS;
COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before exercising any of the privileges of engaging any business,
trade, occupation or profession in the City of Mt. Vernon, Kentucky, during
said license year, every person, firm or corporation, desiring to do so shall
first procure the city license and pay the fee, or tax thereon, as provided in
§
110.10.
   (B)   The issuance and acceptance of each and all of the licenses here
provided for, and the use and enjoyment of the privileges thereby granted,
shall be subject to the provisions and conditions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 10-99, passed 10-4-99)  Penalty , see §
110.99
§ 110.04  DUE DATE; PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   All license fees or tax provided for by this chapter shall be due and
payable in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer on January 1st of each year
and if not paid within 60 days after the due date a penalty of ten percent
(10%) shall be added to and collected by the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   No partial payment for any kind of license shall be allowed or
accepted.
(Ord. 10-99, passed 10-4-99)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05  LICENSE NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   No license shall be transferred or transferable.
(Ord. 10-99, passed 10-4-99)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   All license must be permanently and conspicuously displayed in the original
place of business for which they are granted.
(Ord. 10-99, passed 10-4-99)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  VEHICLES TO DISPLAY TAG OR STICKER.
   All trucks or vehicles upon which a license is charged or used in the
licensed business under this chapter shall bear a tag, plate, license or
sticker to be furnished by the city at the time the license is paid and upon
the failure of any person, firm or corporation to firmly secure said tag,
plate, license, or sticker in a conspicuous place on the vehicle for which the
license is issued or used in the licensed business and retain it there
permanently for the period for which it was issued, said person, firm, or
corporation shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined as set forth in §
110.99.
(Ord. 10-99, passed 10-4-99)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08  PRORATED TAXES.
   (A)   All businesses started during the year will be pro-rated by dividing
the dollar amount by twelve (12) months and multiplying the number of months
left in the year,
   (B)   A new business has thirty (30) days to purchase a privilege license
before the ten-percent (10%) penalty is applied.
(Ord. 10-99, passed 10-4-99)  Penalty, see  §
110.99
§ 110.09  DUTY OF POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and/or policemen to inspect and
report to the Mayor on proper licenses issued and the proper display of the
same and to swear out and have a warrant issued for the arrest of violators of
this chapter.
§ 110.10  LICENSE TAX SCHEDULE.
   Each business, trade, occupation and/or commercial/industrial activity is
required to purchase at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer an annual
privilege license which are as follows.
DESCRIPTION AMOUNT
DESCRIPTION                   AMOUNT
1.   Apartments/Trailer Par$10.00/per unit
2.   Banks                 $200.00 per year
3.   Campgrounds           $10.00/per unit
4.   Motels                $10.00/per unit
5.   Restaurants           Minimum of 50 seats/$100.00 per year plus $1.00
                              per seat over 50 seats
6.   Theatres/EntertainmentMinimum of 50 seats/$100.00 per year plus $1.00
                              per seat over 50 seats
7.   Other Businesses      $100.00 per year
 
(Ord. 10-99, passed 10-4-99)  Penalty, see §
110.99
Other Specific Businesses
§ 110.20  CARNIVALS AND SKATING RINKS.
   No license shall be issued for the operation of any carnival or skating
rink, unless the applicant therefor in addition to complying with all other
pertinent provisions of this chapter shall first make written application to
the city.
(Ord. 10-99, passed 10-4-99)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21  SEPTIC TANK CLEANING BUSINESS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation within the
city to engage in the cleaning of septic tanks for pay or hire without first
obtaining an annual license therefor from the City Clerk/Treasurer and paying
the required fee thereon as herein provided.
   (B)   The annual license fee as required in division (A) above shall be $50,
payable in advance.
   (C)   All revenue received from the payment of license fees required by this
section shall be paid into and become a part of the General Fund.
   (D)   This section shall no apply to owners of real property within the city
on which septic tanks are located when the cleaning operation is performed by
the owners or their employees.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this
section by failing to obtain the license and pay the fee as herein provided
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined as set
forth in §
110.99.  Each septic tank so cleaned shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt any person, firm,
or corporation so licensed from all reasonable regulations of such business
that may be now in effect or hereafter provided for by ordinance.
(Ord. 253, passed 2-3-58)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.22  PUBLIC DANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation within the
city to allow public dancing on premises which are open to the public and
operated for profit, without first having obtained a license therefor from the
City Clerk/Treasurer and paid the required fee thereon as hereafter provided.
   (B)   The annual license fee for allowing public dancing as set out in
division (A) above shall be $200, payable in advance.
   (C)   All revenue received from the payment of license fees required by this
section shall be paid into and become a part of the General Fund.
   (D)   This section does not apply to churches, schools, private homes, and
nonprofit organizations.
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this
section by failing to obtain the license and pay the fee as herein provided
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined as
set forth in §
110.99.  Each day the person, firm, or corporation so operates shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt any person, firm,
or corporation so licensed from all reasonable regulations of the business that
may be now in effect or hereafter provided for by ordinance.
(Ord. 249, passed 4-4-57)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   If any person, firm, or corporation shall operate or carry on any business,
occupation, calling, or profession, or do any act for which a license is
required under this chapter without first having obtained a license to do so,
then such a person, firm, or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than thirty seven
dollars and fifty cents ($37.50) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100) for
each offense.  Each sale or act in such business, occupation, calling, or
profession shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 10-99, passed 10-4-99)
CHAPTER 111:  OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Occupational license application required
   
111.03   Occupational license tax payment required
   
111.04   Apportionment
   
111.05   Employers to withhold
   
111.06   Returns required
   
111.07   Extensions
   
111.08   Refunds
   
111.09   Federal audit provisions
   
111.10   Administrative provisions
   
111.11   Information to remain confidential
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms and their derivatives shall
have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates that a
different meaning is intended.
   "BUSINESS." Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS" shall not
include the usual activities of board trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions, or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions as recognized by the Internal Revenue
Service. BUSINESS" shall not include funds, foundations, corporations, or
associations organized and operated for the exclusive and sole purpose of
religious, charitable, scientific, literary, educational, civic or fraternal
purposes, where no part of the earnings, incomes or receipts of such unit,
group, or association, inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or
other person.
   "BUSINESS ENTITY." Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   "CITY." The City of Paintsville, Kentucky.
(KRS 67.750)
   "COMPENSATION." Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee, which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under Section 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457 of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to
Sections 125 and 132 of the Internal Revenue Code. (KRS 67.750)
   "CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT." The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable. (KRS 67.775)
   "EMPLOYEE." Any person who renders services to another person or any
business entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any
officer, employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any
political subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of any one
or more of the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under
the Internal Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE." (KRS 67.750)
   "EMPLOYER." The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
EMPLOYER" means the person having control of the payment of such wages; and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, EMPLOYER" means such person. (KRS
67.750)
   "FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT." The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service. (KRS 67.775)
   "FISCAL YEAR." Fiscal year as defined in Section 7701(a)(24) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
   "INTERNAL REVENUE CODE." The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2004, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2004, that would
otherwise terminate.
   "NET PROFIT." Gross income as defined in Section 61 of the Internal Revenue
Code minus all the deductions from gross income allowed by Chapter 1 of the
Internal Revenue Code, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States;
   "PERSON." Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever PERSON" is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a penalty
in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership
or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and directors
thereof.
   "RETURN" or REPORT." Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   "SALES REVENUE." Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods,
services, or property.
   "TAX DISTRICT." Any county or city with the authority to levy net profits or
occupational license taxes.
   "TAXABLE NET PROFIT."
      (1)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue only
within the city means net profit as defined above in this section.
      (2)   In case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue both
within and without a the city means net profit as defined above in this
section, and as apportioned under §
110.04.
   "TAXABLE YEAR." The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(KRS 67.750) (Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-08)
§ 111.02  OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any trade, profession, or other
activity for profit or anyone required to file a return under this chapter in
Mt. Vernon shall be required to complete and execute the questionnaire
prescribed by the Occupational Tax Office. Each person shall be required to
complete a separate questionnaire for each separate business before the
commencement of business or in the event of a status change, other than change
of address. Licensees are required to notify the Occupational Tax Office of
change of address, or the cessation of business activity, and of other changes
which render inaccurate the information supplied in the completed
questionnaire.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (E) of this section, every
person or business entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or
business entity that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue
Service or the Kentucky Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to
the city an occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such
activities within the city. The occupational license tax shall be measured by
one percent (1%) of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee;
      (2)   The net profit from business conducted in the city by a resident or
nonresident business entity.
   (B)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is passed through" to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license tax imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
passed through" these entities to the owners.
   (C)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city. (KRS 67.763)
   (D)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
   (E)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking and title insurance company organized and doing business in this
state, any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the Kentucky Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their net profits  derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages;
      (6)   Insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, except as provided in KRS 91A.080;
      (7)   Any profits, earnings, or distributions of an investment fund which
would qualify under KRS 154.20-250 to 154.20-284 to the extent any profits,
earnings, or distributions would not be taxable to an individual investor;
      (8)   All natural persons sixty-five (65) years of age and older shall be
exempt from the provision of the occupational tax of salaries, wages,
commissions, or other compensation earned by such persons in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city, and shall be exempt from
the provisions of the net profits sections of this chapter to the extent of the
first two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) of net profits of any business, trade,
occupation or profession conducted in the city.
      (9)   Compensation received for the renting or leasing of two (2) or less
residential rental units shall be exempt from the occupational/net profit tax.
      (10)   A person engaged in agricultural business (raising crops and
livestock) who employs less than five employees on regular time basis (four
hundred fifty (450) hours during a quarter), may file a return and pay
withholding tax at the end of the taxable year.
      (11)   Any persons qualifying under KRS 68.197.
(KRS 67.765) (Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-08)
§ 111.04  APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, net profit shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) of this
section, plus the sales factor, described in division (C) of this section, and
the denominator of which is two (2); and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
      (3)   For the purposes of divisions (A) through (D) of this section, the
business entity shall file an apportionment form provided by the Occupational
Tax Office.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual’s
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one (1) or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one (1) or more additional factors which will
fairly represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentages under this division
(E), the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (F)   Privilege license fees are deductible when filing net profits. The
license fee will act as a credit to the net profit tax to be paid. In the event
that the net profit tax amount does not exceed the privilege license fee there
will not be a refund.
(KRS 67.753) (Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-08)
§ 111.05  EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold upon the payment of the compensation any tax imposed
against the compensation by the city. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the
city in accordance with this §
111.03.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this section. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of Federal Forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this chapter shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid to one or
more employees of the business entity, and neither the corporate dissolution or
withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor the cessation of holding
any corporate office, shall discharge that liability; provided that the
personal and individual liability shall apply to each and every person holding
the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became obligated. No person
shall be personally and individually liable under this division (H) who had no
authority to collect, truthfully account for, or pay over the tax imposed by
this chapter at the time that the taxes imposed by this chapter become or
became due.
   (I)   Every employee receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax
imposed under §
111.03 above shall be personally liable for the tax notwithstanding the
provisions of divisions (G) and (H) of this section. In all cases where the
employer does not withhold the tax levied under this chapter from the employee,
such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing with the city each
quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer. If the employer fails
to or is not required to withhold, report, or pay the license fee it shall
become the duty of the employee to file with the city. The only employer that
is not required to withhold, report, and pay the occupational license tax is
the federal government including the United States Postal Service. The payment
required to be made by an employee, can be made quarterly, for the periods
ending March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year, or at any
time the employee wishes to make an estimated payment for the year in which
wages are earned. All license fees must be received by February 28 for the
preceding calendar year, together with a copy of the employee’s W-2 form.
Employers not required to withhold, report, or pay the license fee must
annually during the month of January of each year, make a return to the
Occupational Tax Administrator, in which is set forth the name and social
security number of each employee of the employer during the preceding calendar
year, giving the amount of salaries, wages, commissions or other compensation
earned during such preceding year by each such employee. This list shall
include all current full time employees, part time employees, temporary
employees, and terminated employees whether it be voluntary or involuntary.
(Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06  RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank copies of local forms for returns shall be
made available to business entities by the city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license tax return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license tax governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability of the business entity.
(KRS 67.768)
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises. (KRS 67.760)
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of persons who make Federal Form 1099
non-employee compensation" payments to natural persons other than employees for
services performed within the city, to maintain records of such payments and to
report such payments to the city. Said payments must be reported on by
remitting Federal Form 1099 by February 28 of the year following the close of
the calendar year in which the non-employee compensation was paid. If a
business entity or person is not required to remit Federal Form 1099 to the
IRS, including but not limited to payments less than six hundred dollars
($600.00), they are still liable to remit the equivalent information to the
city. The information required to be reported by said licensee shall include:
      (1)   Payer’s name, address, social security and/or federal
identification number.
      (2)   Recipient’s name and address.
      (3)   Recipient’s social security and/or federal identification number.
      (4)   Amount of non-employee compensation paid in the calendar year.
      (5)   Amount of non-employee compensation earned in the city for the
calendar year.
(KRS 67.773) (Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-08)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07  EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six (6) months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal
Revenue Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing
its return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for
payment of the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the
amount properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the tax, an amount equal to twelve percent (12%) per annum simple
interest on the tax shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from
the time the tax was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to
the city. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(KRS 67.770) (Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-08)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08  REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
111.05 above, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer only to the
extent that the amount of the overpayment was not deducted and withheld under §
111.05 by the employer.
   (B)   Unless written application for refund or credit is received by the
city from the employer within two (2) years from the date the overpayment was
made, no refund or credit shall be allowed.
   (C)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two (2) years of the date prescribed by law for the filing
of a return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient
to verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (D)   A refund will not be given in the event that the privilege license fee
exceeds the net profit tax. The privilege license fee will act as a minimum tax
payment.
(KRS 67.778) (Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-08)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09  FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of twenty-five percent (25%)
of the amount of net profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be
assessed at any time within six (6) years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A), or six (6) months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this division (A) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this
division (A), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing
the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted
for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last day
prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within thirty (30) days of the conclusion of the federal
audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(KRS 67.775) (Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-08)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10  ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may
be refunded or credited within two (2) years of the date prescribed by law for
the filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is
the later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
111.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be extended
accordingly.
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B) or
six (6) months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B) and division (A) above, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(KRS 67.778) (Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-08)
§ 111.11  INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, or any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the city, in an action
for violation of the city tax laws or in any action challenging the city laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky or his or her duly authorized agent all such
information and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city if
the Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Kentucky grants to the city
the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and records of the
Kentucky Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the
information so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish
statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data
respecting net profits or compensation of any person or business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity,
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this chapter.
(KRS 67.790(8)(a)) (Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-
08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be subject
to a penalty equal to five percent (5%) of the tax due for each calendar month
or fraction thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (A) shall not
exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the total tax due; however, the penalty
shall not be less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the tax on or before
the time prescribed under §
111.05 may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to five percent (5%) of the
tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied
pursuant to this division (B) shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the
total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than twenty-five dollars
($25.00).
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to twelve
percent (12%) per annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not
previously paid, from the time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the
city. A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every tax imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due under
§
111.03 and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions (A)
through (D) above by civil action in a court of appropriate jurisdiction. To
the extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to recover all court
costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in enforcing any provision of
this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay taxes owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A RETURN" for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six (6) months, or both.
   (J)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.11 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more than one (1)
year, or both.
   (K)   If a tax district that imposes a net profits or gross receipts
occupational license tax fails to comply with the requirements of division (A)
or (B) of this section, the Secretary of State shall inform the tax district in
writing of its noncompliance.  If the tax district is not in compliance within
thirty (30) days following the notice from the Secretary, the Secretary shall
notify all state agencies which deliver services or payments of money from the
Commonwealth to the tax district of the tax district’s noncompliance.  Those
agencies shall suspend delivery of all services or payments to a tax district
which fails to comply with the requirements of division (A) or (B) of this
section.  The Secretary of State shall immediately notify those same agencies
when the tax district is in compliance with the requirements of division (A) or
(B) of this section, and those agencies shall reinstate the delivery of
services or payments to the tax district.
(KRS 67.790) (Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-21-00; Am. Ord. 2008-3, passed 5-29-08)
CHAPTER 112:  PROHIBITED BUSINESS AND COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES 
Section
   
112.01   Advertising within public rights-of-way
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  ADVERTISING WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place advertising of any kind
on any tree, utility pole, or other structure within the rights-of-way of
public streets and highways within the city.
   (B)   The placing of each advertisement or poster shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 337, passed 6-8-81)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates §
112.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Provision for service of process
   
113.09   Exhibition of licenses and badges
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BUSINESS."   The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   "GOODS."   Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is
not restricted to, wares and foodstuffs. 
   "ITINERANT MERCHANT."   Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee,
who engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who,
in the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or
any place within the city.
   "PEDDLER."
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      A person who is a peddler is not in itinerant merchant.
   "SOLICITOR."   Any person who travels by any means from place to place,
taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the
future or for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a
solicitor is not a peddler.
§ 113.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire ninety (90) days
after the date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file a
written, sworn application with the Clerk/Treasurer.  This application shall be
signed by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership,
or by the president if a corporation. Applications should be made on forms
available in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer.  The application shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   All applications for peddler or solicitor licenses shall state, in
addition to statements required by division (A):
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   Two (2) letters of recommendation from any person residing or doing
business in the city certifying the applicant's good moral character and
business responsibility; or, in lieu of such letters, other evidence which may
be used by the Clerk/Treasurer to satisfy his duties under §
113.04;
      (2)   If required by the Clerk/Treasurer, copies of all printed
advertising proposed to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (3)   Credentials from the person, if any, for which the applicant
proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act as such
representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten (10) days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the application, the Clerk/Treasurer shall cause a set
of applicant's fingerprints to be taken and attached to the application; he
shall also cause a picture of the applicant to be taken and to be attached to
the application.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the Clerk shall cause an investigation
of the applicant's business reputation and moral character to be made.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall approve the application unless such
investigation discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's
business would pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals,
or general welfare.  In particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
§ 113.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06.  Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing.  Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known
address, at least ten (10) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 113.06  STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council.  The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the legislative body, within fourteen (14) days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal.  The City Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be
given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08  PROVISION FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   (A)   Requirements of successful applicant.
      (1)   Upon receipt of notice of approval of his application, the
applicant shall file with Clerk/Treasurer an instrument appointing the Clerk/
Treasurer as his true and lawful agent with full power and authority to
acknowledge service of process for and on behalf of applicant in respect to any
matter arising under this chapter.
      (2)   Forms for the required statement are available at the Clerk/
Treasurer's office.  Such form or instrument shall contain recitals to the
effect that the applicant consents and agrees that service of any notice or
process may be made upon this agent, and when so made shall be taken and held
to be as valid as if personally served upon the applicant, according to the law
of this or any other state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason
of such acknowledgment.
   (B)   Duty of Clerk/Treasurer.  Immediately upon service of any process upon
the Clerk/Treasurer under this chapter, the Clerk/Treasurer shall send, by
registered mail, a copy of the process to the licensee at his last known
address.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09  EXHIBITION OF LICENSES AND BADGES.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a badge to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter.  The badge shall contain the words "Licensed
Peddler" or "Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license.  The badge shall be worn conspicuously by the licensee
during such time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
   (C)   Peddlers or solicitors shall exhibit their license at the request of
any citizen.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). 
Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 114:  FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
Section
   
114.01   Imposition of tax
   
114.02   Tax due
   
114.03   Lien
   
114.04   Use of tax
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on all "financial institutions", as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of twenty-five
thousandths of one percent (0.025%) on all deposits (as defined in KRS Chapter
136) maintained by such financial institutions.
(Ord. 7-96, passed 10-7-96; Am. Ord. 4-97, passed 4-7-97)
§ 114.02  TAX DUE.
   (A)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years.  For the 1996
tax year, the following timetable is hereby established:
   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later than May 1,
1997.  Payment of the tax shall be due with a two percent (2%) discount by May
31, 1997, or without the discount by June 30, 1997.
   (B)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established:
   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later than
December 1 of each year.  Payment of the tax shall be due with a two percent
(2%) discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by January
31 of each year.
(Ord. 7-96, passed 10-7-96; Am. Ord. 4-97, passed 4-7-97)
§ 114.03  LIEN.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by this chapter, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(Ord. 7-96, passed 10-7-96; Am. Ord. 4-97, passed 4-7-97)
§ 114.04  USE OF TAX.
   All moneys collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid into the General
Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as set forth
in the adopted budgets.
(Ord. 7-96, passed 10-7-96; Am. Ord. 4-97, passed 4-7-97)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   All taxes due in accordance with this chapter which are not paid before June
30, 1997, for tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January 31, for all
subsequent tax years shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to a
penalty of ten percent (10%) and shall bear interest at the rate of six percent
(6%) per annum until paid.
(Ord. 7-96, passed 10-7-96; Am. Ord. 4-97, passed 4-7-97)
CHAPTER 115:  RESTAURANT TAX
Section
   
115.01   Levy of tax
   
115.02   Gross sales reports; calculation of tax
   
115.03   Lien for unpaid tax
   
115.04   Use of tax funds
   
115.05   Definition; exemption from tax
   
115.06   Information confidential
   
115.07   Records
   
115.08   Effective date
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01  LEVY OF TAX.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.400, there is hereby levied upon the retail sales of all
food and non-alcoholic beverages by restaurants in Mt. Vernon, Kentucky, a tax
of three percent (3%) of the gross amount of such sales; which shall be passed
on to the customer or ultimate consumer.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02  GROSS SALES REPORTS; CALCULATION OF TAX.
   On or before the twentieth day of each calendar month, each restaurant
operator shall report to the executive director of the Mt. Vernon-Rockcastle
County Tourist Commission, on forms provided by the Commission, the gross sales
of that restaurant from food and non- alcoholic beverages for the preceding
calendar months, and calculate the tax due for that month by computing three
percent (3%) of its gross sales from food and non-alcoholic beverages, and the
operator shall remit with the form the tax due to the Mt. Vernon-Rockcastle
County Tourist Commission.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03  LIEN FOR UNPAID TAX.
   A lien is hereby granted unto the Tourist Commission upon all property, real
and personal, of any restaurant facility, to secure the unpaid tax receipts due
from that restaurant, which lien shall be perfected by filing a notice of the
amount due and statement of lien in the office of the Rockcastle County Court
Clerk, Mt. Vernon, Kentucky, describing the property on which the lien is
asserted. This filing can be exercised at any point the restaurant is
delinquent over thirty (30) days.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 9-17-07)
§ 115.04  USE OF TAX FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mt. Vernon-Rockcastle County Tourist Commission shall only expend
the money within the guidelines of KRS 91A.350. The Mt. Vernon-Rockcastle
County Tourist Commission will retain fifty percent (50%) of tax receipts for
marketing and promotional efforts and the City of Mt. Vernon will receive fifty
percent (50%) of the tax receipts to be distributed to tourism-related quality
of life" recipients/initiatives in the City of Mt. Vernon as deemed eligible by
a joint committed comprised of two (2) appointed members from the City Council
and two (2) directors of the board of the Tourism Commission. Potential quality
of life" recipients identified that directly impact the tourism industry
include, but are not limited to, the following: Kentucky Music Hall of Fame,
Lake Linville Development, city events/festivals, parks and recreation,
revitalization or beautification, trolley historic tour development, revenue
for matching funds/grant applications for historical/genealogy society
development.
   (B)   The Tourist Commission shall remit payments for quality of life"
projects as they are presented each quarter until fifty percent (50%) of the
total monies collected has been expended. The first quality of life" funds will
become available the second quarter the tax is in effect. The Tourist
Commission will provide to the city a report of available funds within thirty
(30) days of the close of each quarter. Any quality of life" funds not used
within a fiscal year shall be made available to the City of Mt. Vernon in the
following fiscal years until the funds have been expended.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 9-17-07)
§ 115.05  DEFINITION; EXEMPTION FROM TAX.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "RESTAURANT." Any fixed or mobile commercial establishment that engages in
the preparation and serving of ready-to-eat foods in portions to the consumer,
including, but not limited to: restaurants, coffee shops, cafeterias; short
order cafes; luncheonettes; grilles; tea rooms; sandwich shops; soda fountains;
street vendors; catering events’ kitchens; delicatessens; non-packaged ice
cream or similar places in which food is prepared for sale for consumption on
the premises or elsewhere. It does not include schools, food vending machines,
establishments serving beverages only in single service or original containers.
   (B)   Nonprofit corporations or civic organizations hosting events with food
sales shall be exempt from collecting this tax.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 9-17-07)
§ 115.06  INFORMATION CONFIDENTIAL.
   No present or former employee of the Mt. Vernon-Rockcastle County Tourist
Commission or any other person shall divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding tax schedules,
returns or reports required to be filed with the Tourist Commission, or any
information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as the information
may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This prohibition does
not extend to information required in prosecutions for making false reports or
any other infraction of this chapter, nor does it extend to any matter, which
is in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or his or her properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own report. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
the Tourist Commission of any employee of the Commission from testifying in any
court, or from introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the
Tourist Commission, in an action for violation of state or federal tax laws.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 9-17-07) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07  RECORDS.
   Every restaurant, as defined in §
115.05, shall keep such records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers
in such form as the Tourist Commission may require, for not less than four (4)
years from the making of such records unless the Tourist Commission in writing
sooner authorizes their destruction. The Tourist Commission or the City Clerk
may have access to all of the above records to the extent necessary to
determine proper compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 9-17-07)
§ 115.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The tax provided for in this chapter is levied, commencing on the third day
of December, 2007. The first report and remittance of tax due from restaurant
operators shall be on the January 20, 2008.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 9-17-07)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   For each one (1) to thirty (30) day period the report and the tax, or
either, is past due, there shall be added as a penalty two percent (2%) of the
tax due. There is a minimum of ten dollars ($10.00) regardless of the amount of
tax due, if any.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter beyond thirty (30) days, shall be
fined an additional twenty dollars ($20.00) for each offense. Each day the tax
is past due shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 9-17-07)
CHAPTER 116:  INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX
Section
   
116.01   License fee imposed
   
116.02   License fee imposed on life insurance companies
   
116.03   License fee imposed on other insurance companies
   
116.04   Due date; interest
   
116.05   Written breakdown required
§ 116.01  LICENSE FEE IMPOSED.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the City of Mt. Vernon for the calendar year 2009 and each year thereafter
on a calendar year basis.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-17-08)
§ 116.02  LICENSE FEE IMPOSED ON LIFE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the City of Mt. Vernon shall be four percent (4%) of the first year’s
premiums actually collected within each quarter of the year by reason of the
issuance of such policies.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-17-08)
§ 116.03  LICENSE FEE IMPOSED ON OTHER INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be four percent
(4%) of the premiums actually collected within each quarter of the year by
reason of issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate
limits of Mt. Vernon on those classes of business which such company is
authorized to transact, less all premiums returned to policy holders; however,
any license fee or tax imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums
received for insuring employers against liability for personal injuries to
their employees, or death caused thereby, under the provisions of the Worker’s
Compensation Act, and shall not include premiums received on policies of group
health insurance provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2).
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-17-08)
§ 116.04  DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than thirty
(30) days after the end of each quarter of the year. License fees which are not
paid on or before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as
defined in KRS 131.010(6).
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-17-08)
§ 116.05  WRITTEN BREAKDOWN REQUIRED.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the City of Mt. Vernon with a written
breakdown of all collections in the preceding calendar year for the following
categories of insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-17-08)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
(RESERVED)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.    FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
Enforcement Agents
   
150.02   Numbering System for Lots and Parcels
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in Chapter 7, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Plumbing Code, as
contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations;
the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the
Kentucky Administrative Regulations, together with any amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances.  Copies
of the above codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the
office of the City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours.
   (B)   The Building Inspector appointed by the Mayor shall be designated as
the local enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department and all other designated officers,
agents, and employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of
the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
   (D)   The County Plumbing Inspector is charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of the Kentucky Plumbing Code.
Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR LOTS AND PARCELS.
   (A)   Provided that an address has been assigned by the city and on file in
the Office of the City Clerk, the owner of each parcel or lot within the city
limits and abutting the public streets and rights-of- way which contains a
building improvement shall identify the lot or parcel number by either:
      (1)   Affixing the improvement such number in letters or numbers at least
three (3) inches in height, which shall be legible from the street; or
      (2)   Affixing to the curb in front of the lot or parcel the number in
letters or numbers at least four (4) inches in height, which shall be legible
from the street.
   (B)   Property owners shall comply with (A) above before January 1, 1993.
(Ord. 6-92, passed 11-2-92)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Violators of KRS 198B.140, the Uniform State Building Code, or the
Uniform State Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of
not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment for not more than sixty
(60) days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00), imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or
both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Violators of §
150.02 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).  Each
failure to comply shall constitute a separate offense, and each day that the
failure to comply continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 6-92, passed 11-2-92)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
General Provisions
   
151.10   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.11   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
151.12   Establishment of development permit
   
151.13   Compliance
   
151.14   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.15   Interpretation
   
151.16   Warning and disclaimer for liability
Administration
   
151.26   Designation of local administrator
   
151.27   Permit procedures
   
151.28   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator
   
151.29   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.36   General standards
   
151.37   Specific standards
   
151.38   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles
   
151.39   Standards  for  streams  without  established  base  flood elevation
and/or floodways
   
151.40   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.41   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO zones)
 
   
151.99   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 151.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the Commonwealth of Kentucky has in KRS Chapter 100
delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its
citizenry. 
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life,  property, health  and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other properties which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise
protected from flood damages.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alternation of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.04  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To insure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.05  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   "ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING)."  Any walled and roofed expansion to
the perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common
load-bearing wall other than a fire wall.  Any walled and roofed addition which
is connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load-
bearing walls is new construction.
   "APPEAL."  A request for a review of the Mayor's interpretation of any
provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   "AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING."  A designated AO zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   "AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD."  The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given
year.
   "BASE FLOOD."  The flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   "BASEMENT."  That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   "BREAKAWAY WALL."  A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building  and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   "BUILDING."  A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground,
a manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made facilities
or infrastructures.
   "DEVELOPMENT."  Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or permanent
storage of materials or equipment.
   "ELEVATED BUILDING."  A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls, or breakaway walls.
   "EXISTING CONSTRUCTION."  Any structure for which the "start of
construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January
1, 1975, for FIRMS effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also
be referred to as "existing structures."
   "EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION."  A manufactured home park
or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the first floodplain management ordinance adopted by the city based on
specific technical base flood elevation data which established the area of
special flood hazards.
   "EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION."  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   "FLOOD" or "FLOODING."  A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal water; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   "FLOOD HAZARD/BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM)."  An official map of a community issued
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the Areas
of Special Flood Hazard have been designated as Zone A.
   "FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM)."  An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   "FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY."  The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.  The report contains flood profiles, as well as
the Flood Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.
   "FLOODWAY."  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   "FLOOR."  The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including the
basement); i.e., top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood
flooring in wood frame construction.  The term does not include the floor of a
garage used solely for parking vehicles.
   "FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY."  A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities.  The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture sales or service facilities.
   "HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE."  The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a building.
   "HISTORIC STRUCTURE."  Any structure that is:
   (A)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
   (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   (C)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary
of the Interior; or
   (D)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      (1)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the
Interior, or
      (2)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   "LOWEST FLOOR."  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of 60.3.
   "MANUFACTURED HOME."  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.  The term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable structures,
placed on a site for one hundred and eighty (180) consecutive days or longer
and intended to be improved property.
   "MEAN SEA LEVEL."  The average height of the sea for all stages of the
tide.  It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain.  For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with National
Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD).
   "NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD)."  As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   "NEW CONSTRUCTION."  Structures for which the "start of construction"
commenced on or after the effective date of the city's floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   "NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION."  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the city's floodplain management regulations.
   "100 YEAR FLOOD."  See BASE FLOOD.
   "RECREATIONAL VEHICLE."  A vehicle which is:
   (A)   Built on a single chassis;
   (B)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
   (C)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable to a light duty
truck; and
   (D)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   "START OF CONSTRUCTION."  Includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. 
The actual start means the first placement of permanent  construction of a
building (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation.  Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main building.  For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   "STRUCTURE."  A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground,
a manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank, or other man-made facilities
or infrastructures.
   "SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE."  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure  to its before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   "SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT."  Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
alteration, or improvements to a building , taking place during a five (5) year
period, in which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds fifty percent of the
market value of the building.  The market value of the building should be (1)
the appraised value of the building prior to the start of the initial repair or
improvement, or (2) in the case of damage, the value of the building prior to
the damage occurring.  This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. For the
purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur
when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part
of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.  The term does not, however, include either: (1)
any project for improvement of a building required to comply with existing
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the Code Enforcement Officer and which are solely necessary to assure safe
living conditions or (2) Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that
the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".
   "SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS." 
The repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50 percent of the value of the streets,
utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement commenced.
   "VARIANCE."  A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where 
specific  enforcement  would  result  in unnecessary hardship.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.10  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.11  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL HAZARDS.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Study dated _________, with
accompanying maps and other supporting data, and any revision thereto, are
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.12  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.13  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.14  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions.  However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.15  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be: (1) considered as minimum requirements; (2) liberally construed in favor of
the governing body; and (3) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers
granted under state statutes. 
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.16  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration.  Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.  Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes.  This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages.  This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.21  DESIGNATION OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.22  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   Application for a development permit shall be made to the Mayor on forms
furnished by him or her prior to any development activities, and may include,
but not limited to, the following:  plans in duplicate, drawn to scale showing
the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question;
existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials; drainage
facilities and the location of the foregoing.  Specifically, the following
information shall be required:
   (A)   Application stage.
      (1)   Elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level of the proposed lowest
floor (including basement) of all buildings;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to Mean Sea Level to which any non-
residential building will be flood-proofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the non-residential flood-proofed building will meet the flood-proofing
criteria in §
151.37(B); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Construction stage.  Provide a floor elevation or flood-proofing
certification after the lowest floor is completed.  Upon placement of the
lowest floor or flood-proofing by whatever construction means, it shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Mayor a certification of the
elevation of the lowest floor or flood-proofed elevation, as built, in relation
to Mean Sea Level.  Said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land  surveyor or  professional engineer  and
certified  by same.  When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular building,
said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same.  Any work undertaken
prior to the submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder's
risk.  The Mayor shall review the floor elevation survey data submitted. 
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to further progressive work being permitted to proceed. 
Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections required
hereby, shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)  Penalty, §
151.99
§ 151.23  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties of the Mayor shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Review all development permits to assure that the permit requirements
of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be
required, and if specific federal or state permits are known, require that
copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the development
permit;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the Kentucky Division of Water prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to he Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (E)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to Mean Sea Level)
of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
buildings in accordance with §
151.22(B);
   (F)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to Mean Sea Level)
to which the new or substantially improved buildings have been flood-proofed,
in accordance with §
151.22(B);
   (G)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular building, the Mayor
shall obtain certification from a registered professional engineer or
architect, in accordance with §
151.37;
   (H)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Mayor shall make the necessary interpretation.  The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in §§
151.21 through
151.24;
   (I)   When base flood elevation data or floodway  data have not been
provided in accordance with §
151.11, then the Mayor shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base
flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other
source in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.36 through
151.40; and
   (J)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter shall be
maintained in the office of the Mayor and shall be open for public inspection.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.24  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination  made by the
Mayor in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court as provided in the
Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures (see definition) upon determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure.
   (E)   In passing upon such applications, the City Council shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter; and
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity of the facility to a waterfront location, in the case
of a functionally dependent facility;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above, and the purposes of
this chapter, the City Council may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (H)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief; and in the instance of a historical building, a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary so as not to destroy the historic character
and design of the building.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance shall will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on, or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and stating that the cost of
flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
      (4)   The Mayor shall maintain the records of all appeal actions and
report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.36  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement.  Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to,
use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.  This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   New construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into the flood waters.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during the flooding; and
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a building
which is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not furthered, extended, or
replaced. 
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.37  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data have
been provided as set forth in § 151.08 or § 151.55 (B)(9), the following
provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction.  New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential building (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated one foot above the base flood elevation.  Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be
provided in accordance with standards of (C) below.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.  New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential building (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated one foot above the base flood elevation.  Buildings located in all A-
Zones may be flood-proofed in lieu of being elevated, provided that all areas
of the building below the required elevation are water tight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, and use structural
components having the capability resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads
and the effect of buoyancy.  A registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify that the standards of this subsection are satisfied.  Such
certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
151.23(G).
   (C)   Elevated buildings.  New construction or substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and
other exterior walls below the base flood elevation shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to  allow for the entry and exit of
floodwaters to automatically equalize  hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls.
      (1)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The  bottom  of  all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
      (2)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used  in connection with  the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator); and
      (3)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be partitioned
or finished into separate rooms.
   (D)   Floodways.  Located within areas of special flood hazard established
in §
151.11 are areas designated as floodways.  Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and has erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other developments unless certification (with
supporting technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during occurrence of base flood discharge;
      (2)   If (D)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
of §§
151.36 -
151.40.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.38  STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES AND RECREATION VEHICLES.
   (A)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved outside of a
manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured home park or
subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a flood,
must meet all the requirements for new construction, including elevation and
anchoring.
   (B)   All manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision must be elevated so that:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above
the level of the base flood elevation, or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers  or 
other foundation elements of at least an equivalent strength, of no less than
thirty-six (36) inches in height above grade.
   (C)   The manufactured home must be securely anchored to the adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (D)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as the result of a flood,
any manufactured home placed or substantially improved must meet the standards
of §
151.37 (D)(1) and (2) above.
   (E)   All recreational vehicles placed on sites must either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highways use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements for new construction, including
anchoring and elevation requirements for "manufactured homes".
   (F)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels
or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions.
§ 151.39  STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS OR
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.11 where streams exist but where no base flood data has been provided or
base flood data has been provided without floodways, the following provisions
apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within areas of special flood hazard, unless certification by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.  The
engineering certification should be supported by technical data that conforms
to standard hydraulic engineering principles.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of buildings shall be
elevated or flood-proofed to elevations established in accordance with §
151.23(I).
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.40  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   Subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards; and
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) which is greater than the lesser of fifty (50) lots or five (5)
acres.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.41  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the areas of  special flood hazard  established in §
151.11 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.  These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
(1'-3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of
flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following
provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements or residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade, at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the city's FIRM.  If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated at least two (2) feet above the highest
adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the city's FIRM.  If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated at least two (2) feet above the highest
adjacent grade, or
      (2)   Together with attendant utilities and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed to or above that level so that any space below that
level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any
of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor.  Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $50.00 per day or imprisoned for not more than ten (10) days, or
both, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. 
Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. 
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 1-95, passed 2-13-95)
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.    ANNEXATIONS
      
II.    BONDS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   STREET CLOSINGS
      
V.   INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
      
VI.   REPEALED ORDINANCES
TABLE I.  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord.  Date Description
No.
      4-
254   30-  Proposing to annex the following two tracts to the city:
      58
         (1) Beginning at a stake in the present city limits and being in the west
           boundary and 820 feet north of the southwest corner of that boundary.
           (2) Beginning at a stake in the present city limits and being in the present
         north boundary a distance of 377 feet west of the northeast corner of the
           present city limits and also being in the west right-of-way line of the L & N
           railroad property.
256   7-3- Proposing to annex the following two tracts  to the city:
      58
         (1) Beginning at a stake in the present city limits and being in the west
           boundary and 820 feet north of the southwest corner of the same.
           (2) Beginning at a stake in the present city limits and being in the present
         north boundary a distance of 377 feet west of the northeast corner of the
           present city limits and also being in the west right-of-way line of the L & N
           railroad property line.
           Proposing to annex the following territory to the city: beginning at a point
264   9-8- in the north city limit line,  approximately 3220 feet west of the northeast
      61   corner of the city limits, said point being the line of the north boundary of
           School Street, adjoining the property of Roy Cummins.
           Proposing to annex the following territory to the city: beginning at an iron
282   - -  pin in a fence, corner to lot of Jack St. Clair in line of School Street;
           thence northerly 150 feet with St. Clair to to St. Clair's corner in Welkie
           Ballinger's line.
           Annexing the following territory to the city: beginning at an iron pin in a
283   - -  fence, corner to lot of Jack St. Clair in line of School Street; thence
           northerly 150 feet with St. Clair to to St. Clair's corner in Welkie
           Ballinger's line.
           Proposing to annex the following territory to the city:  a certain tract of
298   - -  land lying and being in Rockcastle County,  lying on the west of the City of
           Mount Vernon, and also lying to the north and south side of State Road No
           1326  (Old Mount Vernon and Brodhead Road).
           Annexing the following territory to the city:  a certain tract of land lying
299   - -  and being in Rockcastle County,  lying on the west of the City of Mount
           Vernon, and also lying to the north and south side of State Road No 1326 
           (Old Mount Vernon and Brodhead Road).
308   - -  Proposing to annex the following three tracts of territory to the city:
           (1) A certain tract lying north of the present city limit line, beginning at
         a point in the present north city limit line and property of Edgar Mullins
           and Hillview Subdivision, said point being 17.5 feet south of the back lot
           lines of No.  3 and No.  4 lots of said Hillview Subdivision.
           (2) A certain tract of land lying on the north side of Old Mount Vernon
         Brodhead Road and beginning at a fence post, corner to Mrs. Etta Noe and Mrs.
           Mable Noe  (heirs)  and point No. 20 of the 19 68 annexation survey to the
           city limits.
           (3) A certain tract of land lying on the west side of US Highway No.  25 and
         the north city limit line of the city, beginning at a point in the north city
           limit line and being 2,804.4 feet east of the northwest corner of the city
           limits and being the southwest corner to the J. D. Henderson lot.
309   - -  Annexing the following three tracts to the city:
      73
           (1) A certain tract lying north of the present city limit line, beginning at
         a point in the present north city limit line and property of Edgar Mullins
           and Hillview Subdivision, said point being 17.5 feet south of the back lot
           lines of No. 3 and No. 4 lots of said Hillview Subdivision.
           (2) A certain tract of land lying on the north side of Old Mount Vernon
         Brodhead Road and beginning at a fence post, corner to Mrs. Etta Noe and Mrs.
           Mable Noe  (heirs)  and point No. 20 of the 19 63 annexation survey to the
           city limits.
           (3) A certain tract of land lying on the west side of US Highway No. 25 and
         the north city limit line of the city, beginning at a point in the north city
           limit line and being 2,804.4 feet east of the northwest corner of the city
           limits and being the southwest corner to the J. D. Henderson lot.
311   - -  Annexing the fo1lowing two tracts of land to the city:
      74
         (1) Beginning at an iron stake, corner of William B. Bailey, thence north 6
           east 389 feet to a black oak.
         (2) Beginning at a point in the east right-of- way of Williams Street
           extended and in the line of Lambert and Turner.
           Proposing to annex the following terr itory to the city: Beg inning at a
           point in the existing line of the city corner to Emory Martin and Keith L.
           Coffey,
314   - -  thence north 19 west 209 feet,
           thence south 56 west 209 feet,
           thence south 19 east 209 feet,
           thence north 56 east 209 feet to the beginning corner.
           Annexing certain territory to the city: Beginning at a point in the existing
315   - -  line of the city, corner to Emory Martin and Keith L. Coffey,  thence north
      75   19 west 209 feet,  thence south 56 west 209 feet,  thence south 19 east 209
           feet,  thence north 56 east 209 feet to the beginning corner.
317   - -  Annexing two tracts to the city:
      75
         (1) Beginning at a present corner of the city limits, said point being a
           corner to John D. Henderson, David Gregory, and Estill Bullock.
         Beginning at the present corner of the city limits at point No. 117, being in
           the north right-of-way line of Poplar Street and corner to Denver Miller.
           Annexing certain territory to the city: Beginning on Paul Street, present
320   - -  corner of the city limits, said point being corner to the "Shorty" Langford
           property and William D. Gregory and James Anderkin, Jr.
           Proposing to annex the following territory to the city: Beginning at a point
322   - -  in the center line of U.S. Highway 25, said point being in the present north
      77   city limit line to the city, said point also being 2276 feet due west from
           the northeast corner of the city limit marker.
           Annexing the following property to the city: Beginning at a point in the
323   - -  center line of U.S. Highway 25,  said point being in the present north city
      77   limit line to the city, said point also being 2276 feet due west from the
           northeast corner of the city limit marker.
           Proposing to annex the following territory to the city: Beginning at a point
325   - -  in the line of Homer Hale and Harrison Cook, said point being north 55
      78   degrees 30 feet east, 150 feet from the Old Mount Vernon Brodhead Road and
           the western most point of the existing city limits on said road.
           Proposing to annex the following territory to the city: Beginning on a point
326   - -  in the east lot line of Lot No.  13 of the Hillview Subdivision and being in
      78   the north line of the present city limit line,  said point being due west, 
           751.1 feet from the northeast corner of the city limit marker.
           Annexing the following property to the city: Beginning on a point in the east
327   - -  lot line of Lot No. 13 of the Hillview Subdivision and being in the north
      78   line of the present city limit line, said point being due west, 751.1 feet
           from the northeast corner of the city limit marker.
           Annexing the following property to the city: Beginning at apoint in the line
328   - -  of Homer Hale and Harrison Cook, said point being north 55 degrees 30 feet
      78   east, 150 feet from the Old Mount Vernon Brodhead Road and the western most
           point in the existing city limits on said road.
           Proposing to annex the following territory to the city: A certain parcel of
329   - -  land known as Chestnut Hills Subdivision lying and being on the south side of
      78   Paul Street of the Owens Subdivision, and on the south side of the present
           south city limit line of the city.
           Annexing certain territory to the city described as  follows: A certain
331   - -  parcel of land known as Chestnut Hills Subdivision lying and being on the
      78   south side of Paul Street of the Owens Subdivision, and on the south side of
           the present south city limit line of the city.
      - -  Proposing to annex the following territory to the city: Beginning on a set
332   78   stake in the west city limit line, said point being due south,  522.8 feet
           from corner point No.  121 in the city limit map.
           Annexing certain territory to the city: Beginning on a set stake in the west
333   - -  city limit line, said point being due south, 522.8 feet from corner point No.
           121 in the city limit map.
           Proposing to annex the following territory to the city: Beginning on an iron
335   - -  stake by the road that leads to Victor Hysinger's also being the northwest
           corner to lot owned by Kermit Bailey and being point No. 10 on the present
           city limit map.
           Proposing to annex the following territory to the city: Located near Lake
340   - -  Linville, and being lots No. 23A and 32 of the Lakeside Subdivision as
           appears on plat of record in Plat Book 2, page 4, in the office of the clerk
           of the Rockcastle County Court.
           Annexing certain territory to the city: Located near Lake Linville, and being
341   - -  lots No. 23A and 32 of the Lakeside Subdivision as appears on plat of record
           in Plat Book 2, page 4, in the office of the clerk of the Rockcastle County
           Court.
      5-   Proposing to annex the following territory to the city: Beginning at a black
3-87  11-  oak corner to Wayne Jasper, also being point No. 127 on the city of Mount
      87   Vernon map.
      10-  Annexing the following territory to the city:    Beginning at a black oak
7-87  12-  corner to Wayne Jasper, also being point No. 127 on the city of Mount Vernon
      87   map.
      1-9- Proposing to annex the following territory to the city:    Beginning on an
3-90  90   iron pin in the present city limits a corner to Jack Holt and Bill Gregory,
           also described as Renfro Valley Area.
5-90  5-7- Annexing the following two tracts to the city, subject to approval of
      90   landowners:
           Beginning on an iron pin in the present city limits and corner to Jack Holt
     (1)  and Bill Gregory on the east side of frontage road, thence crossing I-75
           South to point of beginning.
     (2)  Beginning at the southwest corner of present city limits in line of Bullock
           Brothers, being point No. 109 on original city map.
           Proposing to annex territory located on the north side of the city from
6-90  6-1- existing city limits (Red Top and Clarence Carter) on west and east side of
      90   U.S. Highway No. 25 to I-75 Interchange, and territory from existing city
           limits to Lake Linville; tie-ins to Renfro Valley annexation.
9-90  6-8- Annexing property described as Tract 1 in Ord. 5-90 following insufficient
      90   objection by property owners.
           Annexing certain territory located on the north side of the city from
10-90 6-8- existing city limits (Red Top and Clarence Carter) on west and east side of
      90   U.S. Highway No. 25 to I-75 Interchange, and territory from existing city
           limits to Lake Linville; tie-ins to Renfro Valley annexation.
      11-  Annexing 67.238 acres (as surveyed by C. Douglas Mullins) beginning on an
5-92  2-92 iron pin in the west right of way of State Highway No. 461 and corner to
           Clyde Payne; with consent of affected landowners.
      9-9- Proposing to annex unincorporated territory located on the east side of State
6-94  94   Highway 461 into the city; separate parcels of land owned by Bill Deaton, The
           Bank of Mt. Vernon, and Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation.
      12-  Annexing unincorporated territory located on the east side of State Highway
8-94  5-94 461 into the city; separate parcels of land owned by Bill Deaton, The Bank of
           Mt. Vernon, and Kentucky Highlands Investment Corporation.
2-    5-7- Annexing approximately 42.39 acres conveyed by deed to John and Lisa Clontz
2001  01   and John and Connie Hamm.
3-    6-4- Annexing 1.816 acres beginning at the intersection of the east right-of-way
2001  01   of McClure Road and the north right-of-way of Chestnut Drive.
2-    5-5- Annexing approximately 5.28 acres (Parcel 2) conveyed by deed to Kenny and
2003  03   Sherry Robinson.
3-    7-7- Annexing approximately 7.13 acres (Tract Number 1) conveyed by deed to
2003  03   Northside Baptist Church.
6-    9-   Annexing approximately 4.22 acres (Parcel 3) conveyed by deed to Richard and
2003  15-  Connie Graham.
      03
9-    9-   Annexing approximately 5.469 acres conveyed by deed to Roland and Nancy
2003  15-  Mullins.
      08
2006- 6-   Annexing approximately 2.0 acres, excepting approximately 0.803 acres,
2     19-  conveyed by deed to Joel and Bethany Deatherage.
      06
2012- - -  Annexing unincorporated territory belonging to the State Highway Department,
06    12   described in Ordinance 345.
2012- - -  Annexing unincorporated territory described in Ordinance 2-90.
07    12
2014- 4-
2     21-  Annexing unincorporated areas owned by Hanson Aggregates Midwest, LLC.
      14
          
 
TABLE II. BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
                  Authorizing issuance of $624,000 of waterworks and sewer
300      1-1-69   revenue bonds, Series 1969, consisting of $464,000 of Series
                  A bonds and $150,000 of Series B bonds.
                  Authorizing the issuance and sale of $3,375,000 (plus or
                  minus $330,000) water and sewer revenue bonds, Series 1998,
01-98    5-  -98 dated May 1, 1998, for the purpose of financing the costs of
                  constructing extensions, additions and improvements to the
                  water and sewer system.
                  Authorizing the issuance and sale of $1,700,000 water and
03-98    07-06-98 sewer revenue bonds, Series 1999, for the purpose of
                  financing the costs of construction of extensions, additions
                  and improvements to the water and sewer system.
                 
 
TABLE III.  FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Description
Ord. No. Date    Description
                 Creating a CATV sale and distribution franchise granted to
279      5-6-65  Wayne Stewart and James E. Taylor, d.b.a. Mount Vernon TV
                 Cable.
341      -  -   Granting a cable television franchise to Wayne Stewart, Mount
                 Vernon TV Cable.
342      -  -   Granting a cable television franchise to Wayne Stewart, dba
                 Mount Vernon TV Cable.
343      -  -   Granting a garbage collection business franchise to Clarence
                 Hasty,Jr. and William K. Bullens.
                 Granting to Southern Cablevision of Corbin, Inc. a franchise
689      8-1-89  renewal for the continued provision of cable television to the
                 City of Mount Vernon.
3-94     6-6-94  Granting an electric franchise to Kentucky Utilities Company.
                 Creating a franchise for the erection, laying and maintenance
                 of electric facilities and appurtenant facilities and
2014-1   3-17-14 equipment in, along and across the public ways, roads,
                 streets, alleys and other public places in the city; for
                 furnishing and selling electricity by means of said
                 facilities; and providing for the sale of said franchise.
                
 
TABLE IV.  STREET CLOSINGS
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
2-91     2-4-91 Closing a portion of First Street.
2005-1   4-4-05 Closing a portion of Lewis Street.
               
 
TABLE V.  INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date    Description
                 Approving a joint and cooperative program for self-insurance,
                 insurance and the investment of public funds among municipal
                 governments and public agencies in Kentucky; authorizing the
4-93     6-10-93 execution of the "Interlocal Cooperation Agreement to
                 Establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management Association"
                 (KMRMA); approving the Articles of Association and bylaws of
                 KMRMA; declare an emergency.
                
 
TABLE VI.  REPEALED ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Description Reason/Ord. No.
Ord. No. Date    Description                                 Reason/Ord. No.
272      10-1-64 Establishing occupational license taxes     10-99
6-88     12-9-88 Amending occupational license taxes         10-99
1-90     1-9-90  Amending occupational license taxes         10-99
12-90    9-6-90  Amending occupational license taxes         10-99
3-91     4-1-91  Re entertainment occupational license taxes 10-99
1-94     2-22-94 Re campgrounds occupational license taxes   10-99
               Re entertainment occupational license taxes  
2004-4   10-4-04 Amending ad valorem taxes for real and      2004-6
                 personal property
                                                           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
Section 43, Ky. Const.  32.48
                        31.01(A),
Section 228, Ky. Const. 31.37(C),
                        35.02(D)
6.050                   32.48
6.955 - 6.975           33.04
18A.225(2)              116.03
Ch. 39A - Ch. 39F       35.45 -
                        35.47
Ch. 39B                 35.46
Ch. 39F                 35.47
42.450 - 42.495         33.04
61.805(1)               34A.01
61.805(2)               34.01,
                        34A.01
61.805(3)               34A.01
61.805(4)               34A.01
61.805(5)               34A.01
61.805 - 61.850         34A.10
61.810                  34A.05
61.810(1)(i)            34A.05
61.815                  34A.06
61.820                  34A.07
61.820 - 61.823         34A.09
61.823                  34A.08
61.826                  34A.09
61.846                  34A.10
61.848                  34A.10
61.870                  34.01
61.870 - 61.882         31.36
61.872(1)               34.05
61.872(2)               34.05
61.872(3)               34.05
61.872(4)               34.06
61.872(5)               34.06
61.872(6)               34.08
61.874(1)               34.05
61.874(4)               34.05
61.874(5)               34.05
61.874(6)               34.05
61.878                  34.01,
                        34.12
61.880                  34.09
61.880(1)               34.12
61.882                  34.09
61.884                  34.11
62.020                  31.01
62.060                  31.21A
Ch. 65                  31.02
65.003                  36.30
67.750                  111.01
67.753                  111.04
67.760                  111.06
67.763                  111.03
67.765                  111.03
67.768                  111.06
67.770                  111.07
67.773                  111.06
67.775                  111.01,
                        111.09
67.778                  111.08,
                        111.10
67.790                  111.99
67.790(8)(a)            111.11
68.197                  111.03
78.510 - 78.990         37.01
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(7)              10.02
83A.010(8)              10.02
83A.010(9)              10.02
83A.010(10)             10.02
83A.030(1)              30.02(B)
83A.040(1), (2), (6)    31.21
83A.040(2)(c)           31.21
83A.040(2)(d)           31.21
83A.040(3)              31.21,
                        32.01
83A.040(4)              32.01
83A.040(5)              32.01
83A.040(6)              31.04
83A.040(7)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              31.21,
                        32.02
83A.045                 31.20
83A.045(2)(b)(1)        31.20
83A.050                 31.20
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4),(7)          32.38
83A.060(5)              32.40
83A.060(6)              32.22
83A.060(8)              32.41,
                        32.42
83A.060(9)              32.43
83A.060(10)             32.44
83A.060(11)             32.45
83A.060(12),(13)        32.46
83A.060(14)             32.47
83A.060(15)             32.48
83A.065                 10.02
83A.070                 31.03
83A.070(3)              37.01
83A.070(4)              33.06
83A.075                 31.03
83A.080                 37.01
83A.080(1)              31.35
83A.080(2)              31.04,
                        31.35
83A.080(3), (4)         31.20
83A.130                 31.21
83A.130(1)              30.01
83A.130(2)              30.02(A)
83A.130(3),             31.21
83A.130(4)              30.21
83A.130(5)              32.20
83A.130(6)              32.39
83A.130(7)              31.21
83A.130(8)              31.21
83A.130(9)              31.21
83A.130(10)             31.21
83A.130(11)             32.03,
                        32.21
83A.130(12)             32.03(B), (C)
83A.130(13)             32.03(D)
83A.165                 31.20
91A.010                 33.01
91A.010(8)              10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03
91A.040                 33.04
91A.040(1), (4) - (7)   33.04
91A.040(8)              33.04
91A.050                 33.04
91A.060                 33.05
91A.080                 111.03
91A.200                 33.11(A)
91A.210                 33.10
91A.220                 33.11
91A.230                 33.12
91A.240                 33.13
91A.250                 33.14
91A.260                 33.15
91A.270                 33.16
91A.280                 33.17
91A.290                 33.18
91A.350                 115.04
91A.400                 115.01
95.740                  33.06
Ch. 100                 151.01
Ch. 118                 31.20
131.010(6)              116.04
132.810                 33.25(B)
132.810(4)              33.25
134.800                 33.26
134.810                 33.26
Ch. 136                 114.01
136.120                 111.03
137.010                 110.09
Ch. 154                 34.12
154.20-250 - 154.20-284 111.03
174.100                 91.15
174.100(1)              91.16
174.100(2), (3)         91.17
174.100(4)              91.18
174.100(5)              91.19
174.100(6), (7)         91.20
189.010(19)             70.01
189.290                 71.25
189.338                 70.15
189.378                 70.99,
                        71.30
189.450(5), (7)         72.03
189.580                 71.15
189.725                 72.08
189.910                 71.30
189.920                 71.30
198B.990(1)             150.99(A)
224.830                 53.026,
                        53.050
224.835                 53.050
224.855                 53.026,
                        53.050
227.990(1)              150.99(A)
Ch. 237                 73.01(D)
Ch. 243                 111.03
257.100(1) - (3)        90.05
257.100(4)              90.01
Ch. 281                 72.21
318.990                 150.99(C)
376.275(1), (2)         72.21
376.275(3)              72.22
                        32.43(A),
Ch. 424                 33.04,
                        33.15
424.190(2)              33.04
424.220                 33.04
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(8)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(11)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(16)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(19)             10.02
446.010(24)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(36)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03(A)
446.020(2)              10.03(B)
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03(C)
446.080(3)              10.03(D)
446.080(4)              10.03(E)
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
525.125                 90.03
525.130                 90.03,
                        90.99(B)
532.090(1)              10.02
534.040(2)(a)           10.02
534.040(2)(c)           10.02,
                        93.99
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
89       12-  -27   90.16
                     72.50 -
203      10-1-47     72.62,
                     72.99
        8-9-50      72.61
        3-7-51      72.61
245      1-15-56     71.28
249      4-4-57      110.22
253      2-3-58      110.21
254      4-30-58     T.S.O. I
256      7-3-58      T.S.O. I
264      9-8-61      T.S.O. I
272      10-1-64     Repealed
279      5-6-65      T.S.O. III
282        -  -    T.S.O. I
283        -  -    T.S.O. I
298        -  -    T.S.O. I
299        -  -    T.S.O. I
300      1-1-69      T.S.O. II
308        -  -    T.S.O. I
309        -  -73  T.S.O. I
311        -  -74  T.S.O. I
314        -  -    T.S.O. I
315        -  -75  T.S.O. I
317        -  -75  T.S.O. I
320        -  -    T.S.O. I
322        -  -77  T.S.O. I
323        -  -77  T.S.O. I
324      8-11-77     72.61
325        -  -78  T.S.O. I
326        -  -78  T.S.O. I
327        -  -78  T.S.O. I
328        -  -78  T.S.O. I
329        -  -78  T.S.O. I
330      5-8-78      93.02,
                     93.99
331        -  -78  T.S.O. I
332        -  -78  T.S.O. I
333        -  -    T.S.O. I
                     90.16,
335      8-13-79     90.99,
                     T.S.O. I
337      6-8-81      112.01
338        -  -    93.01
339        -  -    33.25(A)
340        -  -83  T.S.O. I
341        -  -    T.S.O. I,
                     T.S.O. II
342        -  -    T.S.O. III
343        -  -    T.S.O. III
344      2-11-85     33.06
349        -  -    72.05,
                     72.99
1-87     3-9-87      32.21
2-87     4-16-87     Repealed
3-87     5-11-87     T.S.O. I
5-87     6-15-87     Repealed
7-87     10-12-87    T.S.O. I
8-87     11-9-87     31.20
1-88     4-25-88     Superseded
4-88     6-20-88     Adopting Ordinance
6-88     12-9-88     Repealed
7-88     12-9-88     Ch. 74, Sch. I
8-88     12-9-88     32.21
1-89     2-14-89     93.04
2-89     4-3-89      Adopting Ordinance
5-89     7-10-89     Repealed
6-89     8-1-89      T.S.O. III
1-90     1-9-90      Repealed
2-90     1-9-90      T.S.O. I
3-90     2-2-90      T.S.O. I
4-90     5-1-90      92.01 -
                     92.03
5-90     5-7-90      T.S.O. I
6-90     6-1-90      T.S.O. I
9-90     6-8-90      T.S.O. I
10-90    6-8-90      T.S.O. I
11-90    8-14-90     Repealed
12-90    9-6-90      Repealed
13-90    11-5-90     72.61
15-90    1-7-91      93.04
2-91     2-4-91      T.S.O. IV
3-91     4-1-91      Repealed
4-92     10-5-92     Repealed
5-92     11-2-92     T.S.O. I
6-92     11-2-92     150.02,
                     150.99
                    
 
ORD.N0. DATE DESCRIPTION CODE SECTION
ORD.N0. DATE    DESCRIPTION                                           CODE
                                                                      SECTION
7-92    1-7-93  Adopting Ordinance                                    Front
8-92    1-7-93  Rates and Charges for Waterworks                      Repealed
1-93    2-1-93  Abolishment of Nonpartisan Primary Election           31.20
2-93    6-7-93  Water Distribution and Sanitary Sewer System          Repealed
3-93    6-10-93 Adopting FY 1993-94                                   Not
                                                                      included
4-93    6-10-93 KMRMA Self Insurance                                  T.S.O. V
1-94    2-22-94 Amends Ordinances 6-88 and 12-90 regarding            Repealed
                entertainment centers
2-94    5-2-94  Adopting 1992 S-5 Supp. to Code                       Front
3-94    6-6-94  Granting franchise to Kentucky Utilities Company      T.S.O. III
4-94    6-29-94 Adopting FY 1994-95 budget                            Not
                                                                      included
5-94    8-1-94  Adopting 1993-S-6 Supp. to Code                       Front
6-94    9-9-94  Proposing to annex territory                          T.S.O. I
7-94    9-9-94  Establishing tax rate for real property, personal     Not
                property, water craft and motor vehicles              included
8-94    12-5-94 Annexing territory                                    T.S.O. I
9-94    12-5-94 Adopting Code of Ethics                               Ch. 36
1-95    2-13-95 Flood damage prevention                               Ch. 151
2-95    6-5-95  Adoption 1994 S-7 Supplement                          Front
3-95    6-5-95  Creation of City Clerk/Treasurer non-elected officer  31.36
                class
4-95    7-3-95  Adoption of annual budget                             Not
                                                                      Included
5-95    10-3-95 Ad valorem taxation                                   33.26
1-96    7-1-96  Sewer use and wastewater treatment                    Repealed
2-96    07-01-  Sewer system rates and charges                        Repealed
        96
                                                                      50.001,
                                                                      50.002,
                                                                      50.015 -
                                                                      50.017,
                                                                      50.021,
3-96    07-01-  Water system rates and charges                        50.035 -
        96                                                            50.038,
                                                                      50.055,
                                                                      50.056,
                                                                      50.070 -
                                                                      50.077,
                                                                      50.090
4-96    07-01-  Adopting annual budget 1996-1997                      Not
        96                                                            Included
5-96    07-01-  Authorizing participation in CERS for city officers   Not
        96      and employees                                        Included
6-96    10-07-  Ad valorem tax for 1996 on property and 1997 on motor 33.26
        96      vehicles
7-96    10-07-  Franchise tax and local deposit tax                   Ch. 114
        96
8-96    02-06-  Adopting 1995 S-8 Supplement to the Code of           Front
        97      Ordinances
                                                                      51.035 -
                                                                      51.038,
1-97    03-03-  Adopting sewer use ordinance                          51.055,
        97                                                            51.056, 
                                                                      51.070,
                                                                      Ch. 52
2-97    03-03-  Establishing comprehensive personnel system           37.01
        97
3-97    04-07-  Amending annual budget FY 1997                        Not
        97                                                            included
4-97    04-07-  Imposing Bank Franchise and Local Deposit Tax         Ch. 114
        97
5-97    07-14-  Adopting annual budget FY 97-98                       Not
        97                                                            included
6-97    07-14-  Establishing rates and charges for sewer system       Ch. 51
        97
7-97    10-09-  Adopting 1996 S-9 Supplement                          Front
        97
8-97    11-04-  Levying annual ad valorem tax                         33.26
        97
9-97    11-04-  Levying annual ad valorem tax on motor vehicles       33.26
        97
                                                                      50.001,
                                                                      50.002,
                                                                      50.015 -
                                                                      50.017,
                                                                      50.021,
10-97   01-05-  Establishing rates and charges for the city’s water 50.035 -
        98      system                                                50.038,
                                                                      50.055,
                                                                      50.056,
                                                                      50.070 -
                                                                      50.077,
                                                                      50.090
01-98   05-  - Issuing water and sewer revenue bonds                 T.S.O. II
        98
02-98   06-08-  Adopting annual budget FY 98-99                       Not
        98                                                            Included
03-98   07-06-  Issuing water and sewer revenue bonds                 T.S.O. II
        98
04-98   10-07-  Amending ad valorem taxes                             33.26
        98
05-98   10-07-  Amending ad valorem taxes                             33.26
        98
01-99   02-01-  Adopting 1998 S-10 Supplement to the Code of          Front
        99      Ordinances
02-99   02-26-  Amending personnel policy                             37.01
        99
03-99   06-07-  Adopting 1998 S-11 Supplement to the Code of          Front
        99      Ordinances
04-99   06-07-  Adopting annual FY budget 1999-2000                   Not
        99                                                            Included
05-99   09-17-  Amending the comprehensive personnel system for all   37.01
        99      departments
06-99   09-17-  Assessing of real and personal property subject to    33.25
        99      taxation and collection
07-99   09-17-  Levying the annual ad valorem tax in the corporate    33.26
        99      limits of the city 
08-99   09-17-  Levying the annual ad valorem tax on motor vehicles   33.26
        99      for the city in the corporate limits
09-99   09-17-  Establishing the office of and appointing Vice-Mayor  31.01,
        99                                                            31.21A
        10-04-  Repealing ordinance 272, 6-88, 12-90, 3-91 and 1-94
10-99   99      and establishing provisions for occupational license  Ch. 110
                taxes
1-2000  02-21-  Relating to occupational/net profit tax               Ch. 111
        00
2-2000  04-03-  Amending employment polices                           37.01
        00
3-2000  05-01-  Amending employment policies                          37.01
        00
4-2000  06-19-  Adopting annual budget FY 2000-2001                   Not
        00                                                            Included
5-2000  08-14-  Adopting 1999 S-12 Supplement to the Code of          Front
        00      Ordinances
6-2000  09-18-  Assessing of real and personal property subject to    33.25
        00      taxation and collection
7-2000  09-18-  Levying ad valorem taxes for real and personal        33.26
        00      property
8-2000  09-18-  Levying ad valorem tax for motor vehicles and         33.26
        00      motorboats
1-2001  05-07-  Amending employment policies                          37.01
        01
2-2001  05-07-  Annexing real property                                T.S.O. I
        01
3-2001  06-04-  Annexing real property                                T.S.O. I
        01
4-2001  06-18-  Adopting annual budget FY 2001-2002                   Not
        01                                                            Included
5-2001  09-17-  Levying ad valorem taxes for real and personal        33.26
        01      property
6-2001  09-17-  Levying ad valorem tax for motor vehicles and         33.26
        01      motorboats
1-2002  4-22-02 Compensation for an elected official                  Not
                                                                      Included
2-2002  6-10-02 Adopting 2004 S-14 Supplement to the Code of          Front
                Ordinances
3-2002  7-30-02 Adopting annual budget FY 2002-2003                   Not
                                                                      Included
4-2002  6-20-02 Amending the 2001-2002 annual budget                  Not
                                                                      Included
5-2002  6-20-02 Setting the date of the regular monthly meeting of    32.21
                the City Council
                                                                      35.45 -
6-2002  8-19-02 Creating the County Office of Emergency Management    35.47,
                                                                      35.99
7-2002  9-16-02 Levying ad valorem tax for real and personal property 33.26
8-2002  9-16-02 Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
                motorboats
1-2003  2-3-03  Setting the date of the regular monthly meeting of    32.21
                the City Council
2-2003  5-5-03  Annexing real property                                T.S.O. I
3-2003  7-7-03  Annexing real property                                T.S.O. I
4-2003  6-30-03 Amending the 2002-2003 annual budget                  Not
                                                                      Included
5-2003  8-4-03  Adopting annual budget FY 2003-2004                   Not
                                                                      Included
6-2003  9-15-03 Annexing real property                                T.S.O. I
7-2003  10-6-03 Levying ad valorem tax for real and personal property 33.26
8-2003  9-15-03 Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
                motorboats
9-2003  9-15-03 Annexing real property                                T.S.O. I
10-2003 10-6-03 Approval of Rockcastle County Emergency Operations    Not
                Plan                                                  Included
                Establishing rates and charges for the city’s water 50.015 -
11-2003 2-2-04  system                                                50.018,
                                                                      50.020
12-2003 12-8-03 Amending Comprehensive Personnel System               37.01
2004-1  4-19-04 Establishing camping rules for Lake Linville          93.05
                recreational areas
2004-2  - -     Establishing rates and charges for the city’s water 53.019
                system
2004-3  10-4-04 Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
                motorboats
2004-4  10-4-04 Establishing rates and charges for the city’s water Repealed
                system
2004-5  10-4-04 Establishing Personnel Manual                         37.01
2004-6  10-11-  Repealing Ord. 2004-4 and levying ad valorem tax for  33.26
        04      real and personal property
2005-1  4-4-05  Street closure                                        T.S.O. IV
2005-2  5-2-05  Disposal of surplus real property                     Not
                                                                      Included
2005-3  6-27-05 Adopting annual budget FY 2005-2006                   Not
                                                                      Included
2005-4  7-11-05 Adopting yard sale regulations                        Ch. 95
2005-5  10-3-05 Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
                motorboats
2005-6  10-3-05 Levying ad valorem tax for real and personal property 33.26
2005-7  10-3-05 Establishing rates and charges for the city’s water 50.015 -
                system                                                50.019
2005-8  12-5-05 Adopting annual budget FY 2004-2005                   Not
                                                                      Included
2006-1  3-6-06  Setting the date of the regular monthly meeting of    32.21
                the City Council
2006-2  6-19-06 Annexing real property                                T.S.O. I
2006-3  9-18-06 Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
                motorboats
2006-4  9-18-06 Levying ad valorem tax for real and personal property 33.26
2006-5  6-19-06 Adopting annual budget FY 2006-2007                   Not
                                                                      Included
2006-6  8-21-06 Amending the 2006-2007 annual budget                  Not
                                                                      Included
2007-1  6-18-07 Adopting annual budget FY 2007-2008                   Not
                                                                      Included
2007-2  9-17-07 Levying ad valorem tax for real and personal property 33.26
2007-3  9-17-07 Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
                motorboats
                                                                      115.01 -
2007-4  9-17-07 Relating to restaurant tax                            115.08,
                                                                      115.99
2008-1  5-19-08 Amending Personnel Manual                             37.01
2008-2  6-5-08  Adopting annual budget FY 2008-2009                   Not
                                                                      Included
                                                                      111.01 -
2008-3  5-29-08 Relating to occupational license tax                  111.11,
                                                                      111.99
2008-5  10-2-08 Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
                motorboats
2008-6  10-2-08 Levying ad valorem tax for real and personal property 33.26
                                                                      53.001 -
                                                                      53.003,
                                                                      53.010 -
                                                                      53.015,
                                                                      53.025 -
                                                                      53.032, 
                                                                      53.045,
2008-7  10-27-  Establishing solid waste management regulations       53.050,
        08                                                            53.051, 
                                                                      53.060 -
                                                                      53.065,
                                                                      53.075 -
                                                                      53.077,
                                                                      53.090 -
                                                                      53.093,
                                                                      53.999
2008-8  11-17-  Relating to insurance premium tax                     116.01 -
        08                                                            116.05
08-10   12-18-  Establishing rates and charges for the city’s water 50.015 -
        08      system                                                50.018
08-12   1-26-09 Approving lease and creating sinking fund regarding   Not
                project financing                                     Included
2009-1  3-16-09 Amending Personnel Manual                             37.01
2009-3  6-15-09 Adopting the 2009 Supplement                          Front
2009-4  8-18-09 Adopting annual budget FY 2009-2010                   Not
                                                                      Included
2009-5  10-19-  Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
        09      motorboats
2009-6  10-20-  Levying ad valorem tax for real and personal property 33.26
        09
2009-13 6-9-09  Amending annual budget FY 2009                        Not
                                                                      Included
-       2-22-10 Amending annual budget FY 2009-2010                   Not
                                                                      Included
2010-1  6-22-10 Adopting annual budget FY 2010-2011                   Not
                                                                      Included
2010-2  10-18-  Levying ad valorem tax for real and personal property 33.26
        10
2010-3  10-18-  Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
        10      motorboats
2011-1  4-18-11 Amending the regular monthly meetings of the City     32.21
                Council
2011-2  6-20-11 Adopting annual budget FY 2011-2012                   Not
                                                                      Included
2011-3  10-17-  Levying ad valorem tax for real and personal property 33.26
        11
2011-4  10-17-  Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
        11      motorboats
2012-1  2-27-12 Establishing rates and charges for the city’s water 50.015 -
                system                                                50.019
2012-2  6-18-12 Amending Personnel Manual                             37.01
2012-3  6-18-12 Adopting annual budget FY 2012-2013                   Not
                                                                      Included
2012-4  9-17-12 Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
                motorboats
2012-5  9-17-12 Levying ad valorem tax for real and personal property 33.26
2012-06 - -12   Annexing real property                                T.S.O. I
2012-07 - -12   Annexing real property                                T.S.O. I
2013-1  6-17-13 Adopting annual budget FY 2013-2014                   Not
                                                                      Included
2013-2  10-21-  Levying ad valorem tax for real and personal property 33.26
        13
2013-3  10-21-  Levying ad valorem tax on motor vehicles and          33.26
        13      motorboats
2014-1  3-17-14 Creating a franchise                                  T.S.O. III
2014-2  4-21-14 Annexing real property                                T.S.O. I
2014-3  6-16-14 Adopting annual budget FY 2014-2015                   Not
                                                                      Included
                                                                    
 
