NORTONVILLE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-001, passed 2-12-2024; and
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2021-03
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF NORTONVILLE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2020 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Nortonville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and,
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the City Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of
Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Nortonville as follows:
   SECTION 1. That the 2020 supplement of the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Nortonville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in tts entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
   THE FOREGOING ordinance was presented for its first reading at the
Nortonville City Council meeting conducted on Monday, April 12, 2021, and for
its second reading at the Nortonville City Council meeting conducted on May 10,
2021. Upon the motion of Council Member Harrison to adopt the Ordinance
effective upon the majority vote of the City Council, signature of the Mayor,
and publication thereof as required by law, seconded by Council Member McPeek,
the City Council voted as follows:
Council Members         YEA      NAY
Kristal Stanley         X
James Braden         X
James Harrison         X
Paul McPeek            X
Greg Rodgers         X
Lucille Putty            X
   IT APPEARING that 6 Council Members voted YEA on the Motion and that 0
Council Members voted NAY on the Motion, the Mayor announced that the Motion
PASSED.
   If passed, the above-stated Ordinance is hereby submitted to the Mayor for
signature and then shall be published as required by law, to be effective
immediately upon the completion thereof.
   DATED this the 10th day of May, 2021
               Brian S. "Scotty" Harvey /s/    
               Honorable Brian S. "Scotty" Harvey, Mayor
               City of Nortonville
ATTEST:
Julie A. Sellers /s/
Julie A. Sellers, City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Nortonville Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read “or”, and “or” may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, OR MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Nortonville irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Hopkins County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships,
or limited liability companies, means all those incorporated or formed by
authority of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships,
or limited liability companies, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KAR. Kentucky Administrative Rules.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Nortonville, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes AFFIRMATION in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER.Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers, coroners,
jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional officers,
marshals, police officers, and other persons with similar authority to make
arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships,
registered limited liability partnerships, joint stock companies, and limited
liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes AFFIRMED in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath. (KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a term
of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected or
appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, city, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4)) (Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060) (Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090) (Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100) (Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110) (Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent amending ordinances, if
any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25,
passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example: (KRS
83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985). If a KRS cite
is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section, this
indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further information.
Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-1980)
      Statutory reference:
         Powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   PLANS AND POLICIES
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
36.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
37.   TAXATION
      
38.   CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
CHAPTER 30: PLANS AND POLICIES
Section
Mayor-Council Plan
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
General Policies
   
30.15   Hazard Mitigation Plan
MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan”.
(KRS 83A.130(1)) (Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
GENERAL POLICIES
§ 30.15 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Pennyrile Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted as an
official plan of the Pennyrile counties and the jurisdictions within Caldwell,
Christian, Crittenden, Hopkins, Livingston, Lyon, Muhlenberg, Todd, and Trigg.
   (B)   The respective officials identified in the strategy of the Plan are
hereby directed to implement the recommended actions assigned to them. These
officials will report quarterly on their activities, accomplishments, and
progress to the Pennyrile Regional Hazard Mitigation Council.
   (C)   The Pennyrile Regional Hazard Mitigation Council will provide annual
progress reports on the status of implementation of the Plan to the Mayor and
City Council.
(Res. 2016-01, passed 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor
   
31.17   Council members
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.31   City Clerk
Official Positions
   
31.45   City Attorney
   
31.46   Assistant City Clerk
   
31.47   Water and Sewer System Superintendent
   
31.48   Recreation Park Director
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this Commonwealth, and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of                                  , according to law; and
I do further solemnly swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present
Constitution, I being a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel
with deadly weapons within this state, nor out of it, nor have I sent or
accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a
second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus
offending, so help me God”, as established by § 228 of the Kentucky
Constitution.
   (B)   Bond. Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed after his or
her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Council members
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local State Finance
and Administration Cabinet computes by the second Friday in February of every
year the annual increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the
preceding year by using 1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the
Kentucky Constitution, which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first
class shall be paid at a rate no greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in
cities other than the first class and Council members shall be paid at a rate
no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
State Finance and Administration Cabinet.
   (B)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees
and nonelected city officers in accordance with the personnel and pay
classification plan ordinance of the city.
   (C)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(KRS 83A.070) (Prior Code, § 31.02)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her
office, may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the
City Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his or her removal. No elected officer shall be removed without
having been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed,
has the right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall
be on the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated
before the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election of city officers is governed by general election laws as
provided in KRS Chapters 116 through 121 unless City Council otherwise
prescribes by ordinance that election of city officers shall be under
nonpartisan city election laws as provided in KRS Chapter 83A. Such ordinance
shall become effective not later than 23 days prior to the date prescribed by
the election law generally for filing notification and declaration forms with
the County Clerk in a year in which a regular election is to be held in which
any city office is to be filled. Immediately subsequent to publication of any
ordinance prescribing that election of city officers be under nonpartisan city
election laws, a copy of the ordinance shall be filed with the County Clerk of
the county in which the city is located.
   (B)   The city may change the manner of election of city officers within the
provisions of division (A) above by ordinance, except that no change shall be
made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (E)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (G)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Prior Code, § 31.20)
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 2004-01, passed 3-1-2004, ordained that the form of election of the
Mayor and the legislative body of the city shall be henceforth non-partisan and
will forgo conducting a primary election as provided for in KRS 83A.170 and
83A.045.
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(4), (5)
§ 31.16 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. His or her term of office begins
on January 1 following his or her election and shall be for four years and
until his or her successor qualifies. If a person is elected or appointed as
Mayor in response to a vacancy and serves less than four calendar years, then
that period of service shall not be considered, for purposes of re-election, a
term of office.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 25 years of age, shall be
a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election,
shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout
his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(1))
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, Council shall
fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason any vacancy in the office of
Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly
fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the
same period as if otherwise appointed.
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the official's electronic mail address
and includes also the official's handwritten signature. The resignation shall
be effective at the next regular or special meeting of the city legislative
body occurring on or after the date specified in the written letter of
resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the written resignation
shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or special meeting of
the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the
authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to
attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the
provisions of division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10)) (Prior Code, § 31.21)
§ 31.17 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office; and
      (4)   Bond, if required.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be appointed
by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by City
Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices: City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.35)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1)-(3)
§ 31.31 CITY CLERK.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the “official custodian” or
“custodian” in accordance with KRS 61.870 through 61.884;
      (3)   Possession of the seal of the city;
      (4)   Performance of any other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk by statute or ordinance;
      (5)   Assistance in the preparation of the agenda for and attendance at
regular and special meetings of the City Council;
      (6)   Publication of ordinances;
      (7)   Service as immediate supervisor of other personnel in the Clerk’s
office;
      (8)   Issuance of purchase orders within established guidelines;
      (9)   Calculation of payroll for all city employees and writing of
checks;
      (10)   Payment of all bills accrued by the city subject to approval of
the Mayor;
      (11)   Preparation of cash reports and maintenance of records relating
thereto;
      (12)   Answering the telephone and acting as receptionist as needed;
      (13)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department of
Local Government a list containing current city information including, but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members, and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer;
            3.   City Manager;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Finance Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief; and
            8.   Public Works Director.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of the City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.;
      (14)   Complete the city uniform financial information report and submit
said report to the Department of Local Government by February 1, 1992 and each
year thereafter as required.
   (C)   Compensation will be determined annually by the City Council.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk unless such
person has taken the oath required by § 228 of the Kentucky Constitution and
has provided bond, in the amount set forth by FMHA, according to bond
regulations, with corporate surety authorized to transact business in the state
and conditioned upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
   (E)   The personnel rules and regulations of the city shall apply to this
office.
(Prior Code, § 31.36) (Ord. passed 5-4-1987; Ord. passed 1-6-1992)
Cross-reference:
   Job description and qualifications, see Ch. 36, App. A., § 1
Statutory reference:
   City Clerk/Treasurer, see KRS 83A.085
OFFICIAL POSITIONS
§ 31.45 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Establishment. There is established the position of City Attorney.
   (B)   Appointment and qualifications. The City Attorney shall be appointed
by the Mayor. He or she shall be an attorney duly licensed to practice law
within the state, maintaining a practice in the county, and possessing
experience in the field of municipal law.
   (C)   Duties. The duties of the City Attorney shall be as set forth in the
contract for services executed between the city and the City Attorney.
   (D)   Compensation. The compensation of the City Attorney shall be in
accordance with the terms of the contract approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.45)
§ 31.46 ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Assistant to the City Clerk.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this position shall be as set forth in
Chapter 36, Appendix A, § 2.
   (C)   Compensation for this position shall be established by City Council as
provided in the city’s compensation plan.
   (D)   The personnel rules and regulations of the city shall apply to this
position.
(Prior Code, § 31.46) (Ord. passed 5-4-1987)
Cross-reference:
   Job description and qualifications, see
Ch. 36, App. A, § 2.
§ 31.47 WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Superintendent of the Water
and Sewer System of the city.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this position shall be as set forth in
Chapter 36, Appendix A, § 7.
   (C)   Compensation for this position shall be established by City Council as
provided in the city’s compensation plan.
   (D)   The personnel rules and regulations of the city shall apply to this
position.
(Prior Code, § 31.47) (Ord. passed 5-4-1987)
Cross-reference:
   Job description and qualifications, see
Ch. 36, App. A, § 7
   Water and sewer system, see
Ch. 51
§ 31.48 RECREATION PARK DIRECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Recreation Park Director.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this position shall be as set forth in
Chapter 36, Appendix A, § 5.
   (C)   Compensation for this position shall be established by City Council as
provided in the city’s compensation plan.
   (D)   The personnel rules and regulations of the city shall apply to this
position.
(Prior Code, § 31.48) (Ord. passed 5-4-1987)
Cross-reference:
   Job description and qualifications, see
Chapter 36, Appendix A, § 5 
   Parks and recreation, see
Ch. 95
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.35   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.36   Official city records
   
32.37   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.38   Publication requirements
   
32.39   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.40   Periodic review required
   
32.41   Municipal orders
   
32.42   Proved by Clerk; received in evidence
   
32.43   Legislative immunity
Cross-reference:
   City officials, see
Ch. 31
   Departments, boards, and commissions, see
Ch. 35
   Personnel policies, see
Ch. 36
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Council member shall be elected at-
large by the voters of the city at a regular election. Terms of office begin on
January 1 following the election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a
resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her election,
shall be a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout
his or her term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. For provisions concerning compensation, see §
31.02.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies.
      (1)   If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one or more
members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill the
vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his or
her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with the remaining
members in making further appointments until all vacancies are filled.
      (2)   If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the
Governor shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to
constitute a quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this
section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the official's
electronic mail address and includes also the official's handwritten signature.
The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special meeting of
the city legislative body occurring on or after the date specified in the
written letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the
written resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or
special meeting of the legislative body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason any vacancy on Council is
not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill the
vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety, and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   (1)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government.
The Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to
it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or her official duties.
      (2)   Any statement required by the Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency
under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or
undertaken unless and until written notice of the Council’s action is given to
the Mayor.
      (3)   The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council
and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of any
department, office, or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13)) (Prior Code, § 32.03)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.20)
Cross-reference:
   Council’s responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is a vacancy in the office of Mayor, see §
31.16
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold regular meetings once a month on the
second Monday of the month, at 6:00 p.m., based on the official time then
prevailing throughout the county. However, whenever the second Monday of a
month falls on a legal holiday, then the regular meeting for that month shall
be held on the ensuing Tuesday which is a secular day at 6:00 p.m., or if that
Tuesday is also a holiday, then on the ensuing Thursday at 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   The regular meeting place at which the City Council shall hold its
meetings shall be at the City Hall.
   (C)   Special meetings of the City Council may be called at any time by the
Mayor or by a majority of the City Council, by written notice to each member,
to the Mayor, and to all persons, agencies, or media representatives who have
duly filed with the City Clerk a written request to be furnished such notice,
delivered at least 24 hours prior to the time specified for the proposed
meeting.
   (D)   At a special meeting, no business may be considered other than that
set forth in the designation of purpose.
   (E)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the City Clerk and by
the officer presiding at the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 32.21) (Ord. passed 9-9-1974; Ord. 2009-02, passed 8-3-2009;
Ord. 2010-02, passed 7-30-2010; Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-5-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Minutes, see KRS 83A.130(11)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.22)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
shall clearly state the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (Prior Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Nortonville”.
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (Prior Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath them, and any words
being deleted by a single broken line drawn through them.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (Prior Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.38 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4),(7)) (Prior Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.34 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council
together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after
receiving it or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto, upon
reconsideration of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting
following its return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of
the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.35 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.36 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.31 and
32.37, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk and the presiding officer shall sign the official record
of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.37 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.38 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
City Council. If the City Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary,
the summary shall be prepared or certified by an attorney licensed to practice
law in the commonwealth and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (Prior Code, § 32.43)
§ 32.39 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (Prior Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.40 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.41 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12),(13)) (Prior Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.42 PROVED BY CLERK; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of ordinances by
authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in evidence by any
state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (Prior Code, § 32.47)
§ 32.43 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Council members shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (Prior Code, § 32.48)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Fiscal year
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
 
   
33.99   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010) (Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The city shall operate under an annual budget ordinance adopted and
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section. No moneys shall
be expended from any governmental or proprietary fund except in accordance with
a budget ordinance adopted pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Moneys held by the city as a trustee or agent for individuals, private
organizations, or other governmental units need not be included in the budget
ordinance.
   (C)   If, in any fiscal year subsequent to a fiscal year in which the city
has adopted a budget ordinance in accordance with this section, no budget
ordinance is adopted, the budget ordinance of the previous fiscal year has full
force and effect as if readopted.
   (D)   The budget ordinance of the city shall cover one fiscal year.
   (E)   Preparation of the budget proposal shall be the responsibility of the
Mayor.
(KRS 91A.030)
   (F)   The following standards shall apply to the form and detail in which
the annual budget proposal of the city is to be prepared.
      (1)   The annual budget proposal shall detail the raising of revenue from
all sources, including grants and transfers, and the spending of money for
specified programs, functions, activities, or objectives of the city, including
all principal and interest due on debt, for the budget year. The total of
anticipated revenues shall equal or exceed the total of proposed expenditures.
      (2)   The form of the annual budget proposal shall be consistent in form,
to the extent practical, with the accounting system of the city.
      (3)   The annual budget proposal shall provide a complete program and
financial plan for all funds for the budget year.
      (4)   The annual budget proposal shall not provide for appropriations to
exceed revenues for the budget year.
   (G)   The budget proposal, together with a budget message, shall be
submitted to Council not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the
fiscal year it covers. The budget message shall contain an explanation of the
governmental goals fixed by the budget for the coming fiscal year; explain
important features of the activities anticipated in the budget; set forth the
reasons for stated changes from the previous year in program goals, programs,
and appropriation levels; and explain any major changes in fiscal policy.
   (H)   (1)   Council may adopt the budget ordinance making appropriations for
the fiscal year in such sums as it finds sufficient and proper, whether greater
or less than the sums recommended in the budget proposal. The budget ordinance
may take any form that Council finds most efficient in enabling it to make the
necessary fiscal policy decisions.
      (2)   No budget ordinance shall be adopted which provides for
appropriations to exceed revenues in any one fiscal year in violation of § 157
of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (I)   The full amount estimated to be required for debt service during the
budget year shall be appropriated for all governmental fund types.
   (J)   Council may amend the budget ordinance at any time after the
ordinance’s adoption, so long as the amended ordinance continues to satisfy the
requirements of this section.
   (K)   Administration and implementation of an adopted budget ordinance shall
be the responsibility of the Mayor. Such responsibility includes the
preparation and submission to Council of operating statements, including
budgetary comparisons of each governmental fund for which an annual budget has
been adopted. Such reports shall be submitted not less than once every three
months in each fiscal year.
   (L)   To the extent practical, the system utilized in the administration and
implementation of the adopted budget ordinance shall be consistent in form with
the accounting system called for in §
33.02.
   (M)   No city agency, or member, director, officer, or employee of any city
agency, may bind the city in any way to any extent beyond the amount of money
at that time appropriated for the purpose of the agency. All contracts,
agreements, and obligations, express or implied, beyond such existing
appropriations are void; nor shall any city officer issue any bond,
certificate, or warrant for the payment of money by the city in any way to any
extent, beyond the balance of any appropriation made for the purpose.
(KRS 91A.030) (Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. passed 5-2-1983)
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)    The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the Auditor of Public Accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audits shall be completed by March 1 immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department for Local Government for information
purposes by no later than April 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the basic financial statements
which shall include the government-wide and fund financial statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 through 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with
the annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor shall prepare a typewritten or printed report
embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor’s opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant’s work papers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 through 6.975.
   (D)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424 containing:
      (1)   The auditor’s opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds”, which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at City Hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his or her personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that he or she will be charged for duplication costs at a
rate that shall not exceed $0.25 per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of such statement.
(KRS 91A.040) (Prior Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Governor’s Office for Local Development to provide assistance, see KRS
91A.050.
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. § 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any obligations,
including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (Prior Code, § 33.05)
§ 33.06 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall commence on July 1 and end on June 30.
(Prior Code, § 33.06)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210) (Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220) (Prior Code, § 33.11)
Statutory reference:
   Improvements; alternate methods, see KRS Chapter 107
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, mailed to each affected
property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (Prior Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments and, if it
determines to proceed, shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage, the city
shall publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by
certified mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to
proceed with the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the
estimated cost to the property owner, and the ratio of the cost to each
property owner bears to the total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260) (Prior Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement, or the amount of his
or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by
the special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (Prior Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (Prior Code, § 33.18)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In addition, any
officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
33.04 shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not less than $50
nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which may be recovered only
once, in a civil action brought by any resident of the city. The costs of all
proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the resident
bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(Prior Code, § 33.04)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Purpose of regulations
   
34.03   Posting of regulations
   
34.04   Location of public records
   
34.05   Minutes of meetings
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.20   Conditions of access to public records
   
34.21   Abstracts and copies of records; fee
   
34.22   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.23   Public records not immediately available
   
34.24   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.25   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.26   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.27   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.28   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.29   Notification of the Attorney General
   
34.30   Format of copies
   
34.31   Fees for copies
   
34.32   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.33   Online access to public records in electronic form
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its new
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to, a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to, paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care, and
keeping of public records. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of this city shall be the
City Clerk.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. The City of Nortonville, including its legislative body and
every officer, department, and division of the city; every entity created by
authority of the city; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad hoc
committee, advisory committee, council, or agency created and controlled by the
city and any interagency body in which the city participates.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software, or other documentation, regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORD shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.28.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   SOFTWARE. The program code which makes a computer system function, but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, password, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system. SOFTWARE consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions related to public records, see KRS 61.870
§ 34.02 PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations are established to govern the access of
persons to the public records of the city as defined in §
34.01.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
§ 34.03 POSTING OF REGULATIONS.
   A copy of these rules and regulations shall be displayed in a prominent
location accessible to the public in the city offices.
(Prior Code, § 34.03) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
§ 34.04 LOCATION OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   The principal office of the city is located in the City Hall.
   (B)   The regular office hours and work days of the city are 9:00 a.m. to 4:
00 p.m. Monday through Friday.
   (C)   The title and address of the official custodian are:
      City Clerk
      P.O. Box 770
      Nortonville, Kentucky 42442
   (D)   The hours of operation for City Hall are 8:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m.,
Monday through Friday. The office will not close during the lunch hour.
(Prior Code, § 34.04) (Res. passed 11-1-1976; Ord. 2013-02, passed 4-22-2013)
§ 34.05 MINUTES OF MEETINGS.
   The minutes of action taken at every meeting of the City Council or other
agency, setting forth an accurate record of votes and actions at such meetings,
shall be promptly recorded and such records shall be open to public inspection
at reasonable times no later than immediately following the next meeting of the
City Council or other agency.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.20 CONDITIONS OF ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS.
   All public records, except those excluded by §
34.28, shall be open for inspection under the following conditions.
   (A)   Any person shall have the right to inspect public records during the
regular office hours.
   (B)   Facilities available to each person for inspection of public records
will consist at a minimum of a chair and top space of a desk or table in the
agency office.
   (C)   No person shall remove original copies of public records from the city
offices without the written permission of the official custodian, nor shall any
person damage or disorganize the records.
   (D)   The official custodian may require written application describing the
records to be inspected.
(Prior Code, § 34.10) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
§ 34.21 ABSTRACTS AND COPIES OF RECORDS; FEE.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all
written public records. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a
written request and advance payment of the prescribed fee. If the applicant
desires copies of public records other than written records, the custodian of
such records shall permit the applicant to duplicate such records; however, the
custodian may ensure that such duplication will not damage or alter the
records.
   (B)   The fee for the city to make copies of public records shall be $0.20
per page, which is the actual cost thereof not including the cost of staff
required.
(Prior Code, § 34.11) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
§ 34.22 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk does not have custody or control of the public record or
records requested, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant and shall furnish
the name and location of the official custodian of the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.12) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
§ 34.23 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause for further delay is given and the place, time, and earliest date on
which the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.13) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
§ 34.24 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.14) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
§ 34.25 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   The agency, upon any request for records made under this chapter, shall
determine within three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays)
after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the request and shall
notify in writing the person making the request, within the three-day period,
of its decision. Any agency response denying, in whole or in part, inspection
of any record shall include a statement of the specific exception authorizing
the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the exception
applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued by the official
custodian or under his or her authority and shall constitute final agency
action.
(Prior Code, § 34.15) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Denial of inspection, see KRS 61.880
§ 34.26 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 34.16) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
§ 34.27 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.28 of these rules and regulations.
(KRS 61.884) (Prior Code, § 34.17) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
§ 34.28 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1), that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
Rules of Civil Procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records, the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by
an agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if openly disclosed would permit an unfair commercial
advantage to competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements, and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above shall not apply to records, the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including, but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information, the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation;
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly;
      (13)   (a)   Public records, the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Counterterrorism measures and plans;
            5.   Security and response needs assessments;
            6.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include, but not be limited to, information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage, and gas systems;
            7.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division (A)(13): detailed drawings,
schematics, maps, or specifications of structural elements; floor plans; and
operating, utility, or security systems of any building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency; and
            8.   Records, when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division (A)(13) and that describe the exact physical
location of hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, TERRORIST ACT means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (A)(13)(a)6. above; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division (A)(13), that public
agency shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to
in KRS 61.880(1), to the executive director of the Office for Security
Coordination and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(13) shall affect the obligations of
a public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs; and
         (e)   The exemption established in this division (A)(13) shall not
apply when a member of the state’s General Assembly seeks to inspect a public
record identified in this division under the Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870
to KRS 61.884;
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation, regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records, the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. Such records
shall include, but not be limited to, work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant, or eligible shall not
have the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(Prior Code, § 34.18) (Res. passed 11-1-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Public records exemptions, see KRS 61.878
§ 34.29 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 through 61.884.
(Prior Code, § 34.19)
§ 34.30 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make abstracts
of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of all public
records not exempted by the terms of §
34.28. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where appropriate.
If the applicant desires copies of public records other than written records,
the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or permit the
applicant to duplicate the records; however, the custodian shall ensure that
such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) - (3)) (Prior Code, § 34.20)
§ 34.31 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may, at its discretion, provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used, and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing, and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of the creation, purchase, or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4)) (Prior Code, § 34.21)
Cross-reference:
   Fees for online access to public records, see §
34.33
§ 34.32 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.31;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio,
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.33 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license, or other agreement with the agency, and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.31.
(KRS 61.874(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.23)
CHAPTER 35: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Police Department
   
35.01   Establishment
   
35.02   Police Chief
   
35.03   Fee for service of criminal warrants
   
35.04   Police officer
Volunteer Fire Department
   
35.15   Establishment
   
35.16   Fire Chief
   
35.17   Assistant Fire Chief
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Police Department in the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
§ 35.02 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Police Chief.
   (B)   Powers and duties of this position shall be as set forth in
Chapter 36, App. A, § 6.
   (C)   The Police Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor. In order to qualify
for appointment as Police Chief, the candidate shall:
      (1)   Be able to read and write the English language intelligently;
      (2)   Be moral, sober, and sagacious;
      (3)   Not have been convicted of a felony; and
      (4)   Be at least 21 years old.
   (D)   The Police Chief shall take an oath to faithfully perform his or her
duties. The oath may be administered by a judge, clerk of the court, notary
public, or justice of peace.
   (E)   Before entering on the duties of his or her position, the Police Chief
shall be bonded with a corporate surety authorized and qualified to become a
surety bond in this state in the amount of $1,000.
   (F)   Compensation for this position shall be established by City Council as
provided in the city’s compensation plan.
   (G)   The personnel rules and regulations of the city shall apply to this
office.
(KRS 95.440) (Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. passed 5-4-1987)
§ 35.03 FEE FOR SERVICE OF CRIMINAL WARRANTS.
   (A)   In all cases in which the city police serve warrants within the
corporate boundaries of the city, the Chief of Police shall be entitled to the
same fee that is allowed by law to the County Sheriff. The fee shall be
collected from the defendant upon conviction.
   (B)   It is hereby directed that such fees shall be paid unto the City
Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. passed 2-2-1981)
§ 35.04 POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   There is created the position of Police Officer.
   (B)   Powers and duties of this position shall be as set forth in
Chapter 36, App. A, § 11.
   (C)   The Police Officer shall:
      (1)   Be able to read and write the English language intelligently;
      (2)   Be moral, sober, and sagacious;
      (3)   Not have been convicted of a felony; and
      (4)   Be at least 21 years of age.
   (D)   The Police Officer shall take an oath of office to faithfully perform
his or her or her duties. The oath may be administered by a judge, clerk of the
court, notary public, or justice of the peace.
   (E)   Before entering on the duties of Police Officer, he or she shall be
bonded with a corporate surety authorized and qualified to become surety bond
in this state in the amount of $1,000.
   (F)   Compensation for this position shall be no less than $6.50 per hour
with increases each year when financially possible.
   (E)   The personnel rules and regulations as well as the Police Procedural
Manual of the city shall apply to this position.
(KRS 95.440) (Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 96-5, passed 9-23-1996)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Fire Department is hereby established in the city to be known as the
Nortonville Volunteer Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 35.15)
§ 35.16 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Fire Chief.
   (B)   Duties of this position shall be as set forth in
Chapter 36, App. A, § 3.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor. In order to qualify
for appointment as Fire Chief, the candidate shall:
      (1)   Be able to read and write the English language intelligently;
      (2)   Be moral, sober, and sagacious;
      (3)   Not have been convicted of a felony; and
      (4)   Be at least 18 years of age.
   (D)   Compensation for this position shall be established by City Council as
provided in the city’s compensation plan.
   (E)   The personnel rules and regulations of the city shall apply to this
position.
(KRS 95.440) (Prior Code, § 35.16) (Ord. passed 5-4-1987)
§ 35.17 ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Assistant Fire Chief.
   (B)   Duties of this position shall be as set forth in
Chapter 36, App. A, § 4.
   (C)   The Assistant Fire Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor. In order to
qualify for appointment, the candidate shall:
      (1)   Be able to read and write the English language intelligently;
      (2)   Be moral, sober, and sagacious;
      (3)   Not have been convicted of a felony; and
      (4)   Be at least 18 years of age.
   (D)   Compensation for this position shall be set by City Council as
provided in the city’s compensation plan.
   (E)   The personnel rules and regulations of the city shall apply to this
position.
(KRS 95.440) (Prior Code, § 35.17) (Ord. passed 5-4-1987)
CHAPTER 36: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Purpose
   
36.002   Scope of coverage
   
36.003   Equal opportunity employment
   
36.004   Status of present employees
   
36.005   Suggestion system
   
36.006   Political activity
Administration
   
36.020   Powers of the governing body
   
36.021   Powers and duties of the Clerk
   
36.022   Personnel records
 
   
Appendix A:   Authorized positions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city recognizes that a personnel system which recruits and retains
a competent, productive work force is essential to effective, efficient local
government. These policies and procedures have been developed in order to
achieve optimum efficiency, economy, and equity in the pursuit of the city’s
goals and the utilization of its human resources.
   (B)   The policies and procedures will be maintained by the City Clerk, and
will be reviewed annually in cooperation with the Mayor and the City Council
each year prior to the beginning of the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. passed 3-7-1994)
§ 36.002 SCOPE OF COVERAGE.
   (A)   The following officers and employees of the city are explicitly
exempted from coverage unless otherwise specified:
      (1)   All elected officials;
      (2)   City Attorney;
      (3)   City Engineer;
      (4)   Consultants, advisors, and counsel rendering temporary professional
services;
      (5)   Independent contractors;
      (6)   Seasonal/part-time employees; and
      (7)   Members of volunteer organizations.
   (B)   All officers and employees not explicitly exempted from coverage of
these policies and procedures shall be subject to its provisions.
   (C)   An EMPLOYEE (as opposed to an “officer”) is interpreted by these
policies and procedures as a person:
      (1)   Whose position was not created by the Constitution, Kentucky
Revised Statutes, or local government;
      (2)   Who possesses no part of the sovereign power of the city;
      (3)   Whose powers were not conferred directly by the city;
      (4)   Who is supervised by someone in a higher position; and
      (5)   Whose position has no established permanency.
(Prior Code, § 36.02)
§ 36.003 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYMENT.
   The city seeks to provide equal opportunity to all of its employees and
applicants and to prohibit discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, political affiliation, physical handicaps, age, and marital
status. The city promotes equal opportunity in matters of hiring, promotion,
transfer, compensation, benefits, and all other terms, privileges, and
conditions of employment.
(Prior Code, § 36.03) (Ord. passed 3-7-1994)
§ 36.004 STATUS OF PRESENT EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Employees filling permanent positions with the city who have served in
the position on a continuing basis throughout the six months preceding the
adoption of this chapter shall have permanent status conferred upon its
adoption.
   (B)   Employees filling permanent positions with the city who have not
served in the position on a continuing basis throughout the previous six months
upon adoption of this chapter shall not be granted permanent status upon its
adoption. The employees will be eligible for permanent status upon completion
of six months of continuous satisfactory service in positions on record as of
the adoption of this chapter.
   (C)   Upon adoption of this chapter, all newly appointed permanent personnel
will be eligible for permanent status upon completion of six months of
continuous satisfactory service in the position.
(Prior Code, § 36.04)
§ 36.005 SUGGESTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city’s suggestion system is established to encourage all employees
to submit suggestions that could allow the government to operate more
efficiently and effectively.
   (B)   Written suggestions should be submitted to the department director,
who shall recommend approval or disapproval upon submission to the Mayor. The
Mayor and City Council are responsible for evaluating all suggestions. Awards
ranging from recognition to actual monetary remuneration may be made upon
adoption of the suggestion at the discretion of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 36.05) (Ord. passed 3-7-1994)
§ 36.006 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   While in the service of the city, an employee shall not be required to
contribute to any political fund.
(Prior Code, § 36.06)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 36.020 POWERS OF THE GOVERNING BODY.
   This chapter shall be administered by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 36.10)
§ 36.021 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CLERK.
   (A)   On direction of the Mayor, the City Clerk shall administer the
provisions of these policies and procedures and all rules and regulations. The
Clerk shall maintain current records of all employees, including position
title, pay rate, and other relevant data.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to ensure that the policies and
procedures reflect all subsequent amendments or additions made by the City
Council. Changes to these policies and procedures shall be made in the
following manner:
      (1)   A list of all city personnel having custody of the policies and
procedures manual shall be maintained;
      (2)   Immediately upon official modification of a personnel policy or
procedure, the change shall be written in a manner and format consistent with
this manual;
      (3)   The effective date of the change shall be noted after the word
“supercedes” in the lower right-hand corner of each replacement page or
addition; and
      (4)   A memorandum explaining the changes, with the new policy and
procedure attached, shall be distributed to all personnel assigned custody of a
copy of the manual. The memorandum shall direct all employees as to which pages
of the original shall be removed and replaced by amendments or where new
additional policies and procedures should be placed.
(Prior Code, § 36.11) (Ord. passed 3-7-1994)
§ 36.022 PERSONNEL RECORDS.
   (A)   A personnel file for each employee of the city shall be maintained by
the Clerk.
   (B)   The file shall contain:
      (1)   Employee’s name and permanent address;
      (2)   Position title;
      (3)   Department assignment;
      (4)   Wage/salary;
      (5)   Past changes in city employment status;
      (6)   All EEO-4 requirements; and
      (7)   Such additional employment information as may be required by the
City Council.
   (C)   All changes in the status of employees shall be recorded in these
personnel files.
   (D)   The personnel file shall be retained by the Clerk for at least five
years after his or her employment by the city.
(Prior Code, § 36.12) (Ord. passed 3-7-1994)
APPENDIX A: AUTHORIZED POSITIONS
Section
   
1.   City Clerk
   
2.   Assistant City Clerk
   
3.   Fire Chief
   
4.   Assistant Fire Chief
   
5.   Recreation Park Director
   
6.   Police Chief
   
7.   Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department
   
8.   Maintenance Worker II
   
9.   Maintenance Worker I
   
10.   Backhoe Operator/Laborer
   
11.   Police Officer
§ 1. CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Code number. 5001.
   (B)   Class title. City Clerk.
   (C)   Characteristics of the class. Under general executive and legislative
direction, supervises and performs the financial affairs of the city relating
to the receipt, deposit, custody, and disbursement of city funds; provides
immediate supervision of City Clerk’s office and does related work as required.
   (D)   Examples of duties. Prepares agenda for all City Council meetings;
attends regular and special meetings of the Council, keeping full and accurate
minutes of Council proceedings, recording them before the next regular meeting
in a journal kept for that purpose; implements and executes directives of the
Mayor and policies of the Council; prepares and presents status and disposition
reports on Council directives, the condition of the city, and new business to
be considered; initiates the reenactment of ordinances or resolutions; acts as
custodian of the seal of the city, and of all records and papers not properly
belonging to some other officer; advertises ordinances; serves as immediate
supervisor of other clerical personnel in the City Clerk’s office; issues
purchase orders upon approval of the governing body; supervises and prepares
payroll.
   (E)   Position qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from high school or its
equivalent, supplemented by three years of progressively responsible experience
in clerical work involving frequent contact with the public; or any combination
of education, training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge,
skill, and abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Considerable knowledge of
modern office practices, procedures, and equipment; considerable knowledge of
the legal requirements relating to the keeping and preservation of Council
minutes and records; working knowledge of procedures for Council meetings and
of local government operations; working knowledge of modern accounting
practices and procedures and the basic principles of public finance; typing
ability; ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with
the employees, government officials, and the general public; ability to
maintain important records efficiently and accurately and to prepare clear,
concise reports; initiative and resourcefulness; thoroughness, orderliness,
patience, neatness, integrity, tact, diplomacy, and supervisory ability.
(Prior Code, Ch. 36 App.)
§ 2. ASSISTANT CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Code number. 5002.
   (B)   Class title. Assistant City Clerk.
   (C)   Characteristics of the class. Under general administrative
supervision, assists the City Clerk in the collection and recording of taxes
and other receipts; assists in performing clerical work for the City Council;
and does related work as required.
   (D)   Examples of duties. Assists City Clerk in the notification,
collection, and recording of taxes, assessments, fees, and receipts such as
property taxes, city stickers, occupational license, permits, utility receipts,
and other receipts; accepts and processes occupational license, and
miscellaneous bills; balances cash box and reconciles same with the City Clerk;
serves as general typist for all departments as well as Mayor and Council;
answers telephone and serves as receptionist; assumes the duties of City Clerk
in his or her absence.
   (E)   Position qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from high school or its
equivalent, supplemented by one year of responsible experience in clerical work
involving frequent work with public; or any combination of education, training,
and experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities to
perform effectively the duties of the position.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Working knowledge of
modern office practices, procedures, and equipment; working knowledge of the
legal requirements relating to the keeping and preservation of Council minutes
and records; knowledge of local government operations; typing ability; ability
to establish and maintain effective working relationships with employees,
governmental officials, and the general public; ability to maintain important
records efficiently and accurately and to prepare clear and concise reports;
initiative and resourcefulness; integrity, tact, diplomacy, patience,
thoroughness, neatness, accuracy.
(Prior Code, Ch. 36 App.)
§ 3. FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Code number. 6001.
   (B)   Class title. Fire Chief.
   (C)   Characteristics of the class. Under general executive and legislative
direction, administers and coordinates all phases of the City Volunteer Fire
Department; prepares and submits all reports as required by county, state, or
federal agencies; and does related work as required.
   (D)   Examples of duties. Plans, organizes, directs, coordinates, and
evaluates the activities and programs of the Fire Department; formulates
departmental policies and procedures, rules, and regulations; develops
organizational structure of the Department in accordance with professional
standards and City Council policy; prepares and authorizes work schedules;
supervises and evaluates the use of fire equipment; instructs, disciplines, and
evaluates Department personnel; reviews and recommends acceptable standards and
procedures for the recruitment, selection, promotion, and training of
Department personnel; authorizes purchase requisitions of supplies and
equipment for the Department; confers with representatives of the federal,
state, and local agencies on various Fire Department problems; attends all City
Council meetings; receives complaints from the general public; maintains a
proper record system pertaining to fire runs or inspections; participates in
approved firefighting or prevention courses and schedules subordinates for such
training; represents the Department as needed; develops and conducts an
effective public relations program.
   (E)   Position qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. At least 200 hours of special
firefighters’ training supplemented by three years of responsible Volunteer
Fire Department participation; or any combination of education, training, and
experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities to
perform effectively the duties of the position.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Extensive knowledge and
application of federal, state, and local fire laws and ordinances; extensive
knowledge of principles and practices of modern fire department administration,
organization, and operation as applied to field activity or inspections;
administrative, supervisory abilities; ability to establish and maintain
effective working relationships with employees, other officials, and the
general public; ability to communicate effectively orally and in writing; tact,
firmness, integrity, impartiality, leadership, initiative and resourcefulness,
sound judgment; valid operator’s license; meets all state requirements as
provided in KRS Chapter 95.
(Prior Code, Ch. 36 App.)
§ 4. ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   Code number. 6002.
   (B)   Class title. Assistant Fire Chief.
   (C)   Characteristics of the class. Under general administrative direction,
provides the Chief with top-level line and staff assistance; serves as Fire
Chief in his or her absence; does related work as required.
   (D)   Examples of duties. Assists in developing the objectives, plans,
programs, and procedures of the Fire Department; reviews and makes
recommendations to the Fire Chief for the strengthening of policies and
programs; assists in carrying out the operations of the Department; handles
administrative details of the Department such as schedules, purchase
requisitions, monthly reports, filing, and correspondence; counsels with
subordinates and serves as Chief in his or her absence; assists in promoting
effective public relations.
   (E)   Position qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. At least 200 hours of special
firefighters’ training supplemented by at least three years of responsible
Volunteer Fire Department participation; or any combination of education,
training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills, and
abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Considerable knowledge
and application of federal, state, and local laws and ordinances; considerable
knowledge of the principles and practices of modern fire department
administration, organization, and operation as related in field activity;
ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with
employees, other officials, and the general public; administrative,
supervisory, and analytical abilities; ability to communicate effectively
orally and in writing; initiative and resourcefulness, tact, firmness,
integrity, impartiality, patience, sound judgment; completion of the required
hours of courses and training in firefighting procedures; valid operator’s
license; meets all state requirements as provided in KRS Chapter 95.
(Prior Code, Ch. 36 App.)
§ 5. RECREATION PARK DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Code number. 7001.
   (B)   Class title. Recreation Park Director.
   (C)   Characteristics of the class. Under general executive and legislative
direction, administers and coordinates all phases of the city recreation park.
Prepares and submits monthly reports to the City Council during normal
operational season.
   (D)   Examples of duties. Plans, organizes, coordinates, and evaluates the
activities and programs of the recreation park; formulates policies,
procedures, rules, and regulations following consultation with higher
authority; keeps and maintains property of the recreation park including
grounds (consisting of mowing, painting, and the like); organizes teams and
tournaments; operates recreation park concession; collects fees and other
charges turning same into City Clerk’s office; submits all invoices and bills
pertaining to the recreation park to the City Clerk for payment; serves as
immediate supervisor of personnel designated to the recreation park, including
summer youth workers.
   (E)   Position qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from high school or its
equivalent.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Considerable knowledge of
sports activities including standard safety rules and practices; ability to
establish and maintain effective working relationships with employees, other
officials, and the general public; integrity, tact, diplomacy, patience,
thoroughness, sound judgment, impartiality.
(Prior Code, Ch. 36 App.)
§ 6. POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Code number. 8001.
   (B)   Class title. Chief of Police.
   (C)   Characteristics of the class. Under general administrative,
legislative, and executive direction, plans, organizes, directs, coordinates,
and evaluates the activities of the Police Department; and does related work as
required.
   (D)   Examples of duties. Plans, organizes, directs, coordinates, and
evaluates the activities and programs of the Police Department; formulates
Departmental policies and procedures, rules, and regulations, following
consultation with higher authority; develops organizational structure of the
Department in accordance with professional standards and City Council policy;
prepares and authorizes work schedules; instructs, disciplines, and evaluates
Department personnel; authorizes purchase requisitions of supplies and
equipment for the Department; confers with representatives of federal, state,
and local agencies on various police problems; prepares memoranda and reports
on activities of the Department, orally and in writing; attends all City
Council meetings; receives complaints from the general public; studies and
reviews all laws, official opinions, and guidelines; maintains a proper record
system pertaining to citations, arrests, and investigations; participates in
approved law enforcement courses and schedules subordinates for such training;
patrols the city jurisdiction area on foot or in a cruiser to preserve law and
order, and to prevent and discover the commission of crime, secures the scene
of a crime, conducts preliminary investigations, gathers evidence, obtains
witnesses, and makes arrests; testifies as a witness in court; investigates
reports of stolen property; conducts follow-up investigations of homicides and
thefts; investigates all complaints of bogus checks and forgeries, investigates
complaints of crimes committed by juveniles, and conditions that cause juvenile
delinquency; may confer with juveniles and their families; provides traffic
control services in connection with school crossings, accidents, inoperative
electronic traffic-control devices, fires, parades, and special events; assists
rescue and fire units in emergency situations; takes photographs and
fingerprints for records; works accidents; completes proper forms; may have
some responsibility for juvenile records, or the retention or disposal of
records; assists other law enforcement agencies upon request; escorts prisoners
to jail; represents the Department as needed; develops and conducts an
effective public relations program.
   (E)   Position qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from high school or its
equivalent, supplemented by three years of responsible, professional law
enforcement experience; or any combination of education, training, and
experience which provides the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities to
perform effectively the duties of the position.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Extensive knowledge and
application of federal, state, and local laws and ordinances; extensive
knowledge of the principles and practices of modern police administration,
organization, and operation as applied to field patrol activity, traffic
control, and safety and criminal investigation; extensive knowledge of the use
of police records and their application to the solution of police problems;
administrative, supervisory, and analytical abilities; ability to establish and
maintain effective working relationships with employees, other officials, and
the general public; ability to communicate effectively orally and in writing;
tact, firmness, integrity, impartiality, leadership, initiative and
resourcefulness, sound judgment; completion of or the ability to complete the
required hours of courses and training in law enforcement; valid operator’s
license.
(Prior Code, Ch. 36 App.)
§ 7. SUPERINTENDENT OF THE WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Code number. 1001.
   (B)   Class title. Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department.
   (C)   Characteristics of the class. Under general administrative direction,
administers and enforces regulations and ordinances governing the water or
sewer utilities; and does related work as required.
   (D)   Examples of duties. Supervises and checks the work of employees
engaged in maintenance or construction of water or sewer lines, participating
personally in the work performed on occasion; drives trucks, operates backhoe,
and other equipment; rods sewers out and digs out sewers with backhoe; raises
and repairs manholes; supervises or participates in the monthly reading of
water meters; inspects all sewer and water taps; keeps and maintains sewer
maps, water maps, and related information; keeps daily checks on Water
Department pumping stations as well as sewer pumping stations recording daily
logs on all pertinent information needed to file monthly reports to the City
Council and other government agencies; files appropriate forms as required by
state, federal, or local agencies; attends all City Council meetings; keeps a
daily log on mileage and work performed by his or her departments; orders
needed chemicals, tools, and supplies; receives emergency calls related to
Water and Sewer Department and makes arrangements for their prompt solution;
shuts off water service for failure to make payment for water or sewer service
or violation of city ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   (E)   Position qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from high school, or its
equivalent, supplemented by at least two years of experience in water or sewer
construction as well as water and sewer plant operation; or any combination of
education, training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge,
skills, and abilities to perform effectively the duties of the position.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Extensive knowledge of
modern construction practices, methods, materials, and equipment; ability to
drive trucks and operate other equipment; valid driver’s license; state
certification for water plant operator: Minimum Class II; sewer plant operator:
Minimum Class I; as well as Minimum Class I distribution license; ability to
establish and maintain effective working relationships with employees, city
officials, and the general public; supervisory and administrative abilities;
integrity, patience, tact, diplomacy, initiative and resourcefulness, sound
judgment, good physical condition.
(Prior Code, Ch. 36 App.)
§ 8. MAINTENANCE WORKER II.
   (A)   Code number. 1002.
   (B)   Class title. Maintenance Worker II.
   (C)   Characteristics of the class. Under direct supervision, performs semi-
skilled and routine maintenance work; and does related work as required.
   (D)   Examples of duties. Repairs water line breaks; rods sewer lines; digs
out sewer lines; patches and repairs streets and roads; reads water meters;
mows and trims grass along right-of-way, city buildings, and structures; makes,
erects, and repairs street signs; performs minor mechanical work; cleans city
buildings; washes trucks and other equipment; may inspect sewer lines and the
like upon direction of the Superintendent; may make daily checks of water and
sewer plants and record pertinent information upon direction of the
Superintendent; uses pick and shovel when needed.
   (E)   Position qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Completion of eighth grade, supplemented
by two years of responsible experience in heavy generally unskilled manual
labor; or any combination of education, training, and experience which provides
the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities to effectively perform the
duties of the position.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Considerable knowledge of
standard safety rules and practices; ability to perform heavy routine manual
labor for extended periods under adverse weather and environmental conditions;
ability to understand and follow oral instructions; must have stamina and
excellent physical condition; some mechanical ability; ability to establish and
maintain effective working relationships with employees, officials, and the
general public; possession of valid operator’s license.
(Prior Code, Ch. 36 App.)
§ 9. MAINTENANCE WORKER I.
   (A)   Code number. 1003.
   (B)   Class title. Maintenance Worker I.
   (C)   Characteristics of the class. Under immediate supervision, performs
manual labor requiring little training; and does related work as required; this
class may serve as a trainee position.
   (D)   Examples of duties. Cuts and trims grass in park and around municipal
buildings; cuts weeds; paints fire hydrants; picks up rubbish and debris; trims
around trees, tennis courts, and basketball courts; assists in street, sewer,
and water construction and maintenance; performs custodial duties for city
buildings and structures; cleans trucks and other equipment; uses pick and
shovel when needed.
   (E)   Position qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Completion of eighth grade; experience in
manual labor may be substituted for the educational requirement.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Willingness to perform
heavy, routine manual labor often under adverse weather and environmental
conditions; ability to understand and follow oral instructions; must have
stamina and excellent physical condition; ability to establish and maintain
effective working relationships with employees, officials, and the general
public.
(Prior Code, Ch. 36 App.)
§ 10. BACKHOE OPERATOR/LABORER.
   (A)   Code number. 1004.
   (B)   Class title. Backhoe operator/laborer.
   (C)   Characteristics of the class. Under direct supervision, performs
skilled, semi-skilled and routine maintenance work; and does related work as
required.
   (D)   Examples of duties. Repairs water line breaks, rods sewer lines, digs
out sewer lines; patches and repairs streets and roads; reads water meters;
mows and trims grass along right-of-way, city buildings, and structures; makes,
erects, and repairs street signs; performs minor mechanical work; cleans city
buildings; washes trucks and other equipment; may inspect sewer lines and the
like upon direction of the Superintendent; may make daily checks of water and
sewer plants and records pertinent information upon direction of the
Superintendent; uses pick and shovel when needed.
   (E)   Position qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduation from high school or its
equivalent supplemented by two years of responsible experience in use of
equipment, including, but not limited to, backhoe; or any combination of
education, training, and experience which provides the necessary knowledge,
skills, and abilities to effectively perform the duties of the position.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Considerable knowledge of
standard safety rules and practices; ability to perform heavy routine manual
labor for extended periods under adverse weather and environmental conditions;
ability to drive trucks and operate backhoe and other equipment; valid driver’s
license and a driving record which would be acceptable on the city’s insurance
policy; ability to understand and follow oral and written instructions; stamina
and excellent physical condition; some mechanical ability; ability to establish
and maintain effective working relationships with employees, officials, and the
general public.
(Prior Code, Ch. 36 App.) (Ord. passed 9-7-1988)
§ 11. POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   Code number. 8002.
   (B)   Class title. Police Officer.
   (C)   Characteristics of the class. This is general police work in the
protection of life and property through the enforcement of laws and ordinances.
Work involves routine patrol in an assigned area, preliminary investigation and
miscellaneous duties incidental thereto performed in accordance with
departmental rules and regulations. A police officer is required to exercise
initiative and discretion when faced with emergency conditions. The work
involves an element of personal danger; does related work as required or
directed by superior.
   (D)   Examples of duties. Enforces the laws and ordinances of the city and
all other pertinent laws; patrols an assigned area during a specific period in
a motorized police vehicle or on foot; checks doors and windows and examines
premises or unoccupied buildings and residences in order to detect any
suspicious conditions; investigates conditions and complaints and makes arrests
of persons who violate laws and ordinances; accompanies prisoners to
headquarters, jail, or court; appears in court as arresting officer; directs
traffic; checks automobile parking in restricted areas and gives violation
tickets when necessary; attends fires or accidents in assigned area as directed
and gives all possible assistance, and prepares necessary reports; maintains
order in crowds, parades, funerals, and public gatherings; watches for stolen
cars and wanted or missing persons; makes investigations, enforces city and
state laws pertaining to juvenile offenders; answers criminal complaints and
takes necessary corrective action; gives advice on laws, ordinances, and
general information to the public; participates in accident and criminal
investigations; prepares required reports; participates in crime prevention.
   (E)   Desirable qualifications.
      (1)   Training and experience. Graduated from an accredited high school
or its equivalent (GED); completion of basic police training; no criminal
record; statutory requirements of KRS; and possession of a valid driver’s
license issued by the commonwealth.
      (2)   Special knowledge, skills, and abilities. Ability to understand and
carry out complex oral and written instructions; knowledge of first aid
methods; skill in the use of firearms; power of observation and memory; good
physical health as determined by examination; ability to communicate and deal
with people in a tactful and courteous manner; ability to learn, understand,
and deal with new or trying situations; sound judgment; ability to establish
and maintain effective working relationships with other employees, officials,
and the public.
(Prior Code, Ch. 36 App.) (Ord. 96-5, passed 9-23-1996)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   County assessment adopted
   
37.02   Due date; collection
   
37.03   Delinquency
   
37.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
37.05   Disposition of funds
Local Taxes
   
37.20   Bank franchise and local deposit tax
   
37.21   Outside city limits fire dues
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the annual county assessment for all real and personal property situated
within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or approved
by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. passed 9-2-1986)
§ 37.02 DUE DATE; COLLECTION.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall be due and
payable on or before December 31. A discount of 2% shall be allowed on each
bill for general purposes, if paid prior to December 1.
   (B)   The taxes imposed by §
37.01 shall be collected by the City Clerk.
   (C)   The tax rates for 2023 shall be as follows:
      (1)   The tax rate for real estate shall be $0.236 for each $100 of
assessed valuation; and
      (2)   The tax rate for all other tangible personal property shall be
$0.4002 for each $100 of assessed valuation.
(Prior Code, § 37.02) (Ord. 2010-04, passed 9-23-2010; Ord. 2011-04, passed 9-
22-2011; Ord. 2014-01, passed 9-23-2014; Ord. 2015-01, passed 9-18-2015; Ord.
2016-05, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-18-2017; Ord. 2020-08, passed
9-16-2020; Ord. 2021-06, passed 9-16-2021; Ord. 2022-03, passed 9-19-2022; Ord.
2023-004, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 37.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All city taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall
become delinquent on January 1 following their due dates.
   (B)   Any taxes not paid by January 1 shall be subject to a penalty of 10%
on the taxes due and unpaid. Furthermore, any taxes not paid by February 1
shall be subject to an additional 10% penalty (total: 20%) on the taxes due and
unpaid.
   (C)   Any delinquent taxes not paid prior to April 15 following their due
date shall have a lien placed against the property by the city. Additionally,
the city shall turn any such delinquent taxes over to a collection agency for
their collection. The delinquent taxpayer shall also pay all costs and expenses
incidental to any action taken by the city for collection of the delinquent tax
bill.
(Prior Code, § 37.03) (Ord. passed 9-2-1986; Ord. 2011-04, passed 9-22-2011)
§ 37.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
   (C)   The tax rate for 2023 for motor vehicles and/or watercraft shall be
$0.229 for each $100 of assessed valuation.
(Prior Code, § 37.04) (Ord. 2010-04, passed 9-23-2010; Ord. 2011-04, passed 9-
22-2011; Ord. 2014-01, passed 9-23-2014; Ord. 2015-01, passed 9-18-2015; Ord.
2016-05, passed 9-12-2016; Ord. 2020-08, passed 9-16-2020; Ord. 2021-06, passed
9-16-2021; Ord. 2022-03, passed 9-19-2022; Ord. 2023-004, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 37.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All moneys collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 37.05)
LOCAL TAXES
§ 37.20 BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX.
   (A)   There is imposed on all financial institutions, as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
   (B)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is established: the city will issue tax bills to
financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997. Payment of the tax shall be
due with a 2% discount by May 31, 1997, or without the discount by June 30,
1997.
   (C)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is established: the city will issue tax bills to financial
institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be
due with 2% discount by December 31 of each year, or without the discount by
January 31 of each year.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject
to the tax imposed by this section, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
   (E)   All taxes due in accordance with this section which are not paid by
June 30, 1997, for the tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January 31,
for all subsequent years, shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to a
penalty of 10%.
   (F)   All moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into the
general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 37.10) (Ord. 96-3, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 37.21 OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS FIRE DUES.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the “VFD Outside City Limits Fire Dues
Ordinance.”
   (B)   For the purpose of providing revenue to pay the expenses of the
Volunteer Fire Department (“VFD”) associated with combatting fires and serving
in other emergencies, there shall be levied an annual membership charge or
subscriber fee in the amount established by the City Council on all real
property situated outside the incorporated city limits and within the city VFD
fire district. The annual membership charge or subscriber fee shall be $35 per
parcel of unimproved real property and $55 per parcel of improved real property
situated outside the incorporated city limits and within the city VFD fire
district.
   (C)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 95.018, the County Clerk
shall add the annual city VFD membership charge or subscriber fees to the
county ad valorem property tax bills of all affected property owners.
   (D)   The annual membership charges or subscriber fees shall be collected
and distributed by the County Sheriff to the city to be held for the use and
benefit of the VFD in the same manner as the other taxes on the tax bill and
unpaid fees or charges shall bear the same penalty as general state and county
taxes. The County Sheriff shall be entitled to such reasonable fee as
determined and agreed between the city and County Sheriff.
   (E)   The annual membership charges or subscriber fees shall constitute a
lien on the real property against which it is levied from the time of the levy.
   (F)   Any member or subscriber subject to the membership charges or
subscriber fees herein imposed, including those qualifying as homestead exempt,
shall have the right to petition the city and opt-out of the membership charges
or subscriber fees being placed on the county ad valorem property tax bills.
Those members or subscribers desiring to opt-out shall file a petition with the
city between April 1 and June 1 of the year preceding the issuance of the
property tax bills. This procedure must be repeated each year by those wishing
to continue to opt-out. These forms may be picked up and returned to the City
Hall during normal operating hours. The opt-out petition shall include the
following:
      (1)   The name of the petitioner;
      (2)   The address of the real property being opted-out; and
      (3)   The property valuation administrator map number of the real
property being opted-out.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the VFD from soliciting fees by
other legal means from opt-out members or subscribers or those qualifying as
homestead exempt. Any and all members or subscribers, including those
qualifying for homestead exempt, that choose to opt-out of this section or
decide not to pay the membership charges or subscriber fees that were mailed to
them, shall be subject to any other fees or charges allowed by law for
emergency services provided to or at the affected property.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 4-12-2018)
CHAPTER 38: CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   Definitions
   
38.02   Standards of conduct
   
38.03   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
38.04   Receipt of gifts
   
38.05   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
38.06   Representation of interests before city government
   
38.07   Misuse of confidential information
   
38.08   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
38.20   Who must file
   
38.21   When to file statements, amended statements
   
38.22   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
38.23   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interest
   
38.24   Contents of the financial interest statement
   
38.25   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
38.40   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
38.55   Position of Ethics Officer created
   
38.56   Power and duties of the Ethics Officer
   
38.57   Filing and investigating complaints
   
38.58   Notice of hearings
   
38.59   Hearing procedure
   
38.60   Appeals
   
38.61   Limitation of actions
   
38.62   Advisory opinions
   
38.63   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
38.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Nortonville, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include contractors or subcontractors or any of their employees.
   ETHICS ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. A person designated and vested by this chapter
with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the city’s code of
ethics.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent, grandchild, or step-
child.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A City Council member;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; and
      (5)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Prior Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.02 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction, or activity which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee or any family member
has a financial interest; and/or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action, or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the
officer or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or business as
defined in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent than any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision, or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 38.02) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.03 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly or
through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
   (A)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply to contracts entered
into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office, before an
appointed officer was appointed to a city or city agency office, or before an
employee was hired by the city or city agency. However, if the contract entered
into by a city or city agency officer or employee before he or she became a
candidate, was appointed to office, or was hired as an employee, then the
prohibition above shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
   (B)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply if the contract is
awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless the officer or
employee is authorized to participate in establishing the contract
specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract performance after
the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any of the authorities
set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no
interest in the contract unless the requirements set forth in division (C)
below are satisfied.
   (C)   The prohibition of this section shall not apply in any case where the
following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature of
the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed at
a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
      (2)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
      (3)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city agency
that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interest of the
public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or other
specific reasons; and
      (4)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the governing
body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
(Prior Code, § 38.03) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.04 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person, or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100 per year, whether in the form of
money, service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or
any other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred
that the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of public duties.
(Prior Code, § 38.04) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.05 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any city
time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for the
private use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 38.05) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.06 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application, or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interest.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward,
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Prior Code, § 38.06) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.07 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the state’s Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 through 61.884, at the
time of its use of disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 38.07) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.08 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium, or gift with a fair market value greater than $100
per year in consideration of an appearance, speech, or article unless the
appearance, speech, or article is both related to the officer’s or employees
activities outside of municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech, or article,
provided that the office or employee can show clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the city or city agency and not
primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other person.
(Prior Code, § 38.08) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994) Penalty, see §
38.99
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 38.20 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Ethics
Officer:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected office; and
   (C)   Non-elected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases, or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 38.20) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.21 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS, AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interest required by this section
shall be filed with the Ethics Officer no later than 4:00 p.m., April 15, 1995.
   (B)   All subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed no
later than 4:00 p.m. on April 15 each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of appointment;
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office;
      (3)   The Ethics Officer may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interest for good cause shown; and
      (4)   In the event there is a material change in any information
contained in a financial statement that has been filed with the Ethics Officer,
the officer or employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of
the material change, file an amended statement with the Ethics Officer.
(Prior Code, § 38.21) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.22 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interest shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Ethics Officer. The Ethics Officer, or the administrative
official designated by the Ethics Officer, shall deliver a copy of the form to
each officer and employee required to file the statement, by first class mail
or hand delivery, no later than January 31 of each year.
   (B)   The failure of the Ethics Officer, or the designated administrative
official, to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not
relieve the officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Prior Code, § 38.22) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.23 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   (A)   The Ethics Officer shall be the “official custodian” of the statements
of financial interest and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interest shall
be maintained by the Ethics Officer, or the administrative official designated
by the Ethics Officer as the “custodian”, as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   Records will be maintained in compliance with standards established by
the Archives and Records Commission.
(Prior Code, § 38.23) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.24 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENT.
   (A)   The statement of financial interest shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought, or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer and filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer and
the filer’s immediate family members exceeding $5,000 during the preceding
calendar year, and the nature of the income (in other words, salary,
commission, dividends, retirement fund distribution, Social Security or
disability benefits, and the like);
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   A designation as commercial, residential, or rural, and the
location of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more;
      (7)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year; and
      (8)   The name and address of any creditor owed more than $10,000, except
debts arising from the purchase of a primary residence or the purchase of
consumer goods which are bought or used primarily for personal, family, or
household purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Prior Code, § 38.24) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.25 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENT.
   The Ethics Officer or the designated administrative official shall notify by
certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial interests
who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete statement,
or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the Ethics
Officer. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for violation.
(Prior Code, § 38.25) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994) Penalty, see §
38.99
NEPOTISM
§ 38.40 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall advocate,
recommend, or cause the:
      (1)   Employment;
      (2)   Appointment;
      (3)   Promotion;
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment of a family member, except that this prohibition shall not prevent
an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in the
development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than any
other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
November 14, 1994.
(Prior Code, § 38.35) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994) Penalty, see §
38.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 38.55 POSITION OF ETHICS OFFICER CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Ethics Officer which shall
have the authority, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter
to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Ethics Officer shall be a licensed attorney in the commonwealth or
a person deemed competent to perform the duties and responsibilities as set
forth in this chapter. He or she shall hold no elected or appointed office,
whether paid or unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or any city
agency. He or she shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 38.45) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.56 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE ETHICS OFFICER.
   The Ethics Officer shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on his or her own, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, and make findings of fact and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with his or her investigations and
hearings requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and
answers to questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order
testimony to be taken by deposition before any individual designated by the
Ethics Officer who has the power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing conducted by the Ethics Officer;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
Mayor, the City Council, the governing body of any city agency, the county
attorney, or other appropriate person or body, as necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to the city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the state’s Open Records Act, being KRS 61.870 through 61.884;
   (H)   The Ethics Officer shall prescribe and provide forms for reports,
statements, notices, and other documents required by this chapter; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 38.46) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.57 FILING AND INVESTIGATING COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Ethics Officer, or the administrative
official designated by the Ethics Officer. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Ethics Officer. The Ethics Officer shall acknowledge receipt of a complaint
to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt. The Ethics
Officer shall forward within ten working days to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Ethics
Officer shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint. The Ethics Officer shall afford a person who is the
subject of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the
complaint. The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
appear and be heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the
allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Ethics Officer shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Ethics Officer except:
      (1)   The Ethics Officer may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or
county attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Ethics Officer may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at his or her discretion, make public any
documents which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Ethics Officer shall make a determination based on his or her
preliminary inquiry whether the complaint is within his or her jurisdiction
and, if so, whether it alleges a minimal factual basis to constitute a
violation of this chapter. If the Ethics Officer concludes that the complaint
is outside of his or her jurisdiction, frivolous, or without factual basis, the
Ethics Officer shall immediately terminate the inquiry, reduce the conclusion
to writing, and transmit a copy of his or her decision to the complainant and
to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was filed.
   (E)   If the Ethics Officer concludes, based upon his or her preliminary
inquiry, that the complaint is within his or her jurisdiction and contains
allegations sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a
violation, the Ethics Officer shall notify the officer or employee who is the
subject of the complaint and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government, the Ethics Officer shall issue, in writing, a confidential
reprimand to the officer or employee concerning the alleged violation and
provide a copy of the confidential reprimand to the Mayor and governing body of
the city or city agency; or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
(Prior Code, § 38.47) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994) Penalty, see §
38.99
§ 38.58 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Ethics Officer determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Ethics Officer shall issue an
order setting the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is
issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for and the Ethics Officer
consents to a later date. The order setting the matter for hearing, along with
a copy of any pertinent regulations of the Ethics Officer relating to the
hearing, shall be sent to the alleged violator within 24 hours of the time the
order setting the hearing is issued.
(Prior Code, § 38.48) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.59 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The state’s Rules of Civil Procedure and the state’s Rules of Evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Ethics Officer; however, the
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Ethics Officer so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Ethics Officer in connection
with the matter to be heard. The Ethics Officer shall inform the alleged
violator, or his or her representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its
possession.
   (C)   All testimony in an ethics hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by a notary public, clerk of a court, or justice of the peace. All
parties shall have the right to call and examine witnesses, to introduce
exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to submit evidence, and to be represented
by counsel. All witnesses shall have the right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Ethics Officer,
with or without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or
may file a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation
into the record of the proceeding.
   (E)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Ethics Officer shall, as soon
as practicable, begin reviewing the evidence and make a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Ethics Officer shall issue a written report of his or her
findings and conclusions.
   (F)   If the Ethics Officer concludes in his or her report that no violation
of this chapter has occurred, he or she shall immediately send written
determination to the officer or employee who was subject of the complaint and
to the party who filed the complaint.
   (G)   If the Ethics Officer concludes in his or her report that in
consideration of the evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and
convincing proof of a violation of this chapter, the Ethics Officer may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the Mayor and City Council or city agency
with which the violator serves;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the Mayor and the City Council that the
violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Ethics Officer, which may include
a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and/or
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the county attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 38.49) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.60 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of violation of any provision of this chapter
by the Ethics Officer may appeal the finding to the circuit court of the county
within 30 days after the final action of the Ethics Officer by filing a
petition with the court against the Ethics Officer. The Ethics Officer shall
transmit to the clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Ethics
Officer at the public hearing.
(Prior Code, § 38.50) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.61 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Prior Code, § 38.51) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.62 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Ethics Officer may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under his or her jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by an officer or
employee of the city or city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Ethics Officer may adopt regulations, consistent with the state’s
Open Records Law, KRS 61.870 through 61.884, to establish criteria under which
it will issue confidential advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall
be public documents, except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it
shall be modified so that the identity of any person associated with the
opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By the Ethics Officer if a person makes or purports to make public
the substance or any portion of the advisory opinion requested by or on behalf
of the person. The Ethics Officer may make public the advisory opinion request
and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Ethics Officer shall be
binding on him or her in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and
circumstances of the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances
arise which would change the opinion of the Ethics Officer if they had existed
at the time the opinion was rendered. However, if any fact determined by the
Ethics Officer to be material was omitted or misstated in the request for an
opinion. The Ethics Officer shall not be bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Ethics Officer shall be
admissible in the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for
violations of this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Prior Code, § 38.52) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.63 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, threaten, to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any person who
in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to the
attention of the Ethics Officer or any other agency or official of the city or
the commonwealth any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or city agency discloses
information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under provisions of the
state’s Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884; or
      (3)   Is confidential under any other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 38.53) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Ethics Officer to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to civil fine imposed by
the Ethics Officer not to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in
a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty
within a prescribed period of time.
      (2)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Ethics Officer to have violated any provision of this chapter shall forfeit
to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit or gain
which the officer or employee is determined by the Ethics Officer to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
      (3)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Ethics Officer that an officer or employee of the
city or city agency is guilty of violation of this chapter, shall be sufficient
cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary action by the
Mayor or city agency, or by any other officer of an agency having power of
removal or discipline. Any action to remove or discipline any officer or
employee for a violation of this chapter shall be taken in accordance with all
applicable ordinances and regulations of the city and all applicable laws of
the Commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 38.99)
   (B)   Any violation of §
38.03 shall constitute a Class A misdemeanor, and upon conviction, the court
may void any contract entered in violation of this section. Additionally, a
violation of this section shall be grounds for removal from office or
employment with the city in accordance with any applicable provisions of state
law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 38.03)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial
interests which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally
omits required information in violation of §
38.25 shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails
or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
§
38.25 within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty of a
civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Ethics
Officer in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil
fine of $500. Any civil fine imposed by the Ethics Officer under this section
may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the
offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of
time.
(Prior Code, § 38.25)
   (D)   Any person who knowingly files with the Ethics Officer a false
complaint alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer
or employee of the city or city agency shall be guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 38.47) (Ord. 94-7, passed 11-14-1994)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWER USE REGULATIONS
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
      
53.   NATURAL GAS
CHAPTER 50: SEWER USE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Use of public sewers required
   
50.03   Private sewage disposal systems
   
50.04   Connection to system required
   
50.05   Damaging, destroying sewer facilities prohibited
Building Sewers and Connections
   
50.20   Permits required
   
50.21   Costs of installation and connection
   
50.22   Separate building sewers required
   
50.23   Use of old building sewers
   
50.24   Specifications
   
50.25   Connection of downspouts, foundation drains, and the like
   
50.26   Supervision of connections
   
50.27   Excavations
Discharge Regulations
   
50.40   Discharge of unpolluted water
   
50.41   Prohibited discharges
   
50.42   Limited discharges
   
50.43   Regulatory actions
   
50.44   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
50.45   Maintenance of pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
50.46   Control manholes
   
50.47   Measurements, tests, and analyses
   
50.48   Special agreements
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.60   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
50.61   Hearing Board
   
50.62   Permit classifications
   
50.63   Notice of violation
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewer rates and charges, see §
51.072
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
    BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   HEARING BOARD. The Board appointed according to provisions of §
50.61.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade, or business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NDPES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWER. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present. SEWER also includes a pipe
or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER WORKS OR SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface water
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department, or his
or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative, or other authorized
representative of the city, including the Mayor of the city.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WWTP. Wastewater Treatment Plant.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 50.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (B)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
50.04, the building sewer shall be connected to an interim private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information, as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $100 shall be paid to the city
at the time the application is filed.
   (D)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (E)   The type, capacities, locations, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Department
of Public Health. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where it conflicts with
the county’s Health Department standards. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (F)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
50.04, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable materials.
   (G)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Superintendent or
the appropriate health officer of the state or county.
   (I)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to that sewer within 60 days after such availability, and the owner
shall have the private sewage disposal system cleaned of sludge and filled with
clean bank-run gravel or dirt at no cost to the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and
abutting any street, alley, or right-of-way, in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city,
is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect these facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 DAMAGING, DESTROYING SEWER FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall intentionally or wantonly break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of criminal
mischief.
(Prior Code, § 50.05) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see KRS 512.020 through 512.040
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.20 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   There shall be three classes of building sewer permits as set forth in
§
50.62. The owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city for the appropriate permit. The permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of
$25 for a private, residential, or commercial sewer permit, and $50 for an
industrial sewer permit, shall be paid to the city at the time the application
is filed.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 COSTS OF INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 50.22 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. However, where one building stands at the rear of another building on
an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when,
on examination and test by the Superintendent, they are found to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by that building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (C)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
(Prior Code, § 50.19) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 CONNECTION OF DOWNSPOUTS, FOUNDATION DRAINS, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water, to
a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 SUPERVISION OF CONNECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 50.21) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.22) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
§ 50.40 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet, provided
an NPDES permit has been issued from the Environmental Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 50.30) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.41 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of 0.05 mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to: ashes;
cinders; sand; mud; straw; shavings; metal; glass; rags; feathers; tar;
plastics; wood; unground garbage; paunch manure; hair and fleshings; entrails;
and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either whole or ground
by garbage grinders.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that these wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter, or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F
and 150°F (O°C and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 horsepower metric) or greater shall be subject to the review
and approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to a degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for those materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.0;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works;
or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to a degree that the sewer treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (C)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid waste, or any other batch liquid wastes and wishes to
discharge such wastes to the public sewer system shall first have a valid
domestic waste hauler’s permit. All applicants for a domestic waste hauler’s
permit shall complete the application form, pay the appropriate fee, and
receive a copy of the city’s regulations governing discharge to sewers of
liquid wastes from trucks. All persons receiving such permits shall agree in
writing to abide by all applicable provisions of this section and any other
special provisions that be established by the city as necessary for the proper
operation and maintenance of the sewer system.
      (1)   Discharge of septic tank, seepage pit, interceptor or cesspool
contents, or other wastes containing no industrial wastes may be made by trucks
holding a valid permit at a site designated by the Superintendent of the city’s
wastewater plant for that purpose. Discharge of truck transporting industrial
waste water shall not take place until after the Superintendent has been
notified and written permission has been granted. Discharges of truck hauled
grease pit and grease trap contents shall not be permitted. The city requires
payment as hereinafter provided for the treatment and disposal of costs.
      (2)   The WWTP reserves the right to refuse permission to discharge any
waste that may cause interference or upset at the WWTP or any waste that
violates any provision of this section.
      (3)   Any person holding a valid permit and wishing to discharge to the
WWTP may be required to submit to the plant operator of the WWTP a sample of
each load prior to discharge. A fee and payment schedule shall be published in
the permit to cover costs of required analysis.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or any other part of the public sewer system or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges directly or indirectly to the city public sewer
system, except for only the points of discharge specified by the Superintendent
of city’s wastewater plant.
      (5)   Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging to the public sewer
system or discharging wastewater not authorized in the permit shall be subject
to immediate revocation of discharge privileges and further subject to the
penalties and enforcement actions prescribed in this subchapter. A suspended
permittee shall immediately cease discharging any wastes to the sanitary sewer
system of the city or to any facilities that discharge either directly or
indirectly into its system. Should the suspended permittee or any one driving
one of the permittee’s trucks fail to voluntarily comply with any suspension
order, the Superintendent shall take such actions as deemed necessary or
appropriate to prevent or minimize damage to the WWTP and/or to protect the
health and welfare of the system, public, and environment.
      (6)   A suspended permit may be reinstated by the Superintendent upon
submission of assurances satisfactory to the Superintendent that the suspended
permittee will comply with this section and the rules and regulations
promulgated pursuant this section plus payment of such fines or other penalties
as may be levied by the WWTP. The Superintendent shall require that within 15
days after the date of such occurrence, the suspended permittee shall submit a
written report to the WWTP detailing the nature and extent of the violation(s)
including any non-permitted discharges and the measures taken by the suspended
permittee to prevent future occurrences.
      (7)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established by the Superintendent and approved by the city. The city
shall establish, and from time to time may alter, a schedule of fees, rates,
and charges for the domestic waste haulers permit to cover the costs of
treatment and disposal of all wastes governing permit issuance, requirements,
conditions, suspensions, and all other matters necessary or appropriate to
implement this section.
      (8)   Dumping hours shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. local time on
the days of Monday through Friday, excluding recognized holidays. Dumping after
hours or on weekends or holidays may be allowed by permission only from
operator on duty.
      (9)   The permittee shall complete a chain of custody report for each
load of waste deposited into the system. The information on the chain of
custody report shall be recorded and signed by an employee of the permittee or
the permittee himself or herself and shall be in duplicate forms on forms
provided by the city. One copy of the chain of custody will remain at the South
Hopkins Regional Wastewater Plant. Payment will be due before discharge will be
allowed to take place.
      (10)   Discharge of hauled wastes allowed under this section shall take
place at only the sites designated by the Superintendent of city’s wastewater
treatment plant. The designated site to be used under the domestic waste
haulers permit may be changed by the Superintendent as deemed necessary.
      (11)   Nothing in this section shall relieve a waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance of the county’s Health Department, state and
federal regulations. All other parts of the city’s sewer user ordinance still
applies.
(Prior Code, § 50.31) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980; Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.42 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   All sewage service customers are prohibited to discharge the following
substances above the indicated concentrations at any time.
Substance Concentration (milligrams per liter)
Substance         Concentration (milligrams per liter)
Ammonia nitrogen  25.00
Arsenic           0.020
Cadmium           0.030
Copper            0.300
Cyanide           0.050
Mercury           0.002
Nickel            0.200
Silver            0.040
Total chromium    0.010
Total nitrogen    40.00
Total phosphorous 10.00
Zinc              0.300
 
(Prior Code, § 50.32) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.43 REGULATORY ACTIONS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
50.41, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; or
      (4)   Require prepayment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
50.48.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Prior Code, § 50.33) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.44 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients. However, interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Prior Code, § 50.34) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.45 MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 50.35) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.46 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. The control manhole, when required, shall be constructed in accordance
with plans approved by the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by
the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to
be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 50.36) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.47 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS, AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole which shall be considered to be the nearest
downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer
is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24- hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
(Prior Code, § 50.37) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.48 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(Prior Code, § 50.38) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.60 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the Water
and Sewer Department bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. The Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent and duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the property owner, the owner shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees, and the city shall indemnify the owner against loss or damage
to its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the owner and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the owner to maintain safe conditions as required in §
50.46.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 50.45) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.61 HEARING BOARD.
   A Hearing Board shall be appointed as needed for arbitration of differences
between the Superintendent and sewer users on matters concerning interpretation
and execution of the provisions of this chapter by the Superintendent. The cost
of the arbitration will be divided equally between the city and the sewer user.
(Prior Code, § 50.46) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.62 PERMIT CLASSIFICATIONS.
   There are three classes of permits established:
   (A)   For the installation of private sewage disposal facilities;
   (B)   For residential and commercial building sewers; and
   (C)   For industrial sewer connections.
(Prior Code, § 50.47) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 50.63 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except §
50.05, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § 50.98) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 50.99 PENALTY
   (A)   Violations of §
50.41 are subject to fines and penalties not to exceed $1,000, nor to be less
than $500. In the event that a hauler has been caught discharging to a facility
that directly or indirectly discharges to the city’s sanitary sewer, the
facility may also be subject to the same fine and penalty schedule. This
applies to this facility regardless whether they are informed of the event or
not. In addition to the fines, all costs due to any damages to the system shall
be reimbursed.
(Prior Code, § 50.31)    
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in §
50.63 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which a
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city
by reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 50.99) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980; Ord. 2006-01, passed 4-3-2006)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Application for service
   
51.003   Water taps and connections
   
51.004   Purchase and use of water
   
51.005   Sewer connections
   
51.006   Ownership of lines and meters
   
51.007   Amendments to regulations
Terms and Conditions of Service
   
51.020   Scope of regulations
   
51.021   Supervision of taps and connections
   
51.022   Disconnection of service
   
51.023   Discontinuing service
   
51.024   Mailing of bills and notices
   
51.025   Interruptions of service
   
51.026   City’s liability for damages caused by line breaks
   
51.027   Boilers and pressure vessels
   
51.028   Users’ premises subject to inspection
   
51.029   Piping
   
51.030   Maintenance of service lines
   
51.031   Liability of customers
   
51.032   Water to be used for domestic consumption only
   
51.033   Easements
   
51.034   Water for building or construction purposes
   
51.035   Special terms and conditions
   
51.036   Line extensions
   
51.037   Refusal of service
   
51.038   Customer complaints
   
51.039   Floodplain restriction
Meters
   
51.050   Meters required
   
51.051   Meter deposit authorized
   
51.052   Installation and maintenance of meters
   
51.053   Reading of meters
   
51.054   Meter tests; nonfunctioning meters
   
51.055   Special meters for usage not related to water
   
51.056   Tampering with meters prohibited
Water and Sewer Rates and Charges
   
51.070   Water connection charges
   
51.071   Basic water rates
   
51.072   Sewer rates and charges
   
51.073   Treatment of overstrength or toxic waste
   
51.074   Liability for rates and charges
   
51.075   Review of rates and charges   
   
51.076   Billing and collection
   
51.077   Special rates and charges
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Nortonville, Kentucky, acting by and through its City
Council or such other body as shall be the governing body of that city under
the state law at any given time.
   CUSTOMER. A property owner or his or her agent who has agreed to purchase
water or sewer service from the city.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The manager, superintendent, or other person duly employed
and authorized by the city to supervise the operation of the water and sewer
system.
   SYSTEM. The combined and consolidated water and sewer system of the city, as
now or hereafter constituted.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.002 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Each customer shall make written application for water or sewer service at
the City Hall, and the application, including service received thereunder, is
not assignable by the customer. Application submitted must be reviewed and
approved by the City Council. Upon approval of the application, the tap-on
permit is valid for 180 days.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980; Ord. 2011-03, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 51.003 WATER TAPS AND CONNECTIONS.
   Whenever the city shall determine that it is feasible to provide water
service to a customer, the city shall install, maintain, and operate a main
distribution pipeline or lines from the system’s source of water supply and
shall further install and maintain, at the city’s expense, such portions of the
necessary water service lines as may be needed to bring water from a water main
to the lot or easement line of a customer. If, however, the necessary water
service line from the water main to the water meter of a customer is unusually
long, as determined by the Superintendent, within guidelines fixed by the city,
the customer may be required to pay a portion of the cost of the service line.
The expense borne by the city in any event shall include the necessary tap,
fittings, and shut-off valve, which items shall belong to the city. Each
customer shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, that portion of the
service line from the lot or easement line to his or her premises, including a
stop and waste cock at the end of the house side of his or her service, which
items shall belong to the customer. The minimum earth cover of the customer’s
service shall be 30 inches. The Superintendent shall determine the size and
kind of service to be installed.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.004 PURCHASE AND USE OF WATER.
   (A)   Each customer shall be entitled to purchase from the city, pursuant to
those agreements as may from time to time be provided and required by the city,
such water as the customer may desire, subject, however, to the provisions of
this chapter and to such further rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the city. However, should a customer sell or dispose of a portion of his or her
property or subdivide the same, he or she or the new owner of each new tract
may not demand water and taps without paying connection fees for each such
tract to be served.
   (B)   In the event that the total water supply shall be insufficient to meet
all of the needs of the customers, or in the event that there is a shortage of
water, the city or its Superintendent may prorate the water available among the
various customers, on a basis as is deemed equitable by the city or its
Superintendent, and may also prescribe a schedule of hours covering use of
water and require adherence thereto or prohibit the use of water for specified
purposes, for such appropriate period of time as may be necessary under the
circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.005 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All owners, tenants, and occupants of dwellings, houses, apartments,
hotels, motels, mobile homes, house trailers, mobile home parks, trailer camps,
manufacturing or commercial establishments, or any other building of any kind
or nature situated on a lot or lots, within the city limits, through which any
sewage collection line has been or is hereafter installed, or which abuts upon
any street, alley, or easement within the city limits in which there is
hereafter installed a sewage collection line, or to which property a sewage
collection line is extended, shall within 60 days following the date on which
such sewage collection line is placed in operation, connect therewith all
sanitary sewage drain pipes of such dwellings, houses, apartments, hotels,
motels, mobile homes, house trailers, mobile home parks, trailer camps,
manufacturing or commercial establishments, or other buildings, with the
sanitary sewage collection line, conveying thereby all of the sewage therefrom
into the sewer system; such connections to be made in accordance with such
rules and regulations as the city may from time to time duly establish. The
failure to make such connection is hereby declared unlawful and to constitute a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Each owner, tenant, and occupant of similar property outside the city
limits, who is connected to the city water system and receives water service
from the city, shall, within 60 days following the date on which the city sends
written notice to such party that a city sewage collection line is available to
such property, connect such property to such sewage collection line in
accordance with such rules and regulations; and the city shall cut off the
water supply to any such owner, tenant, or occupant failing to make such
connection.
   (C)   All architects, contractors, builders, or other persons, before
commencing the erection of any building or other improvement capable of
emitting liquid wastes or sewage, on any lot or parcel of land abutting on a
street, alley, or easement in which there may be hereafter installed and
maintained any such sewage collection line, or on any lot or parcel of land
through which there may be hereafter installed a sewage collection line, or to
which a sewage collection line is made available, shall before erecting or
installing such building or improvement, exhibit to the City Council or to such
official as the City Council may designate, satisfactory evidence that a means
has been provided or will be provided for connecting the sanitary sewage drain
pipes from such building or other improvement with such sewer collection line.
No storm water or other surface or subsurface water drain shall be connected
with any sanitary sewer line hereafter constructed, nor shall any storm water,
surface, or subsurface water be otherwise introduced into any sanitary sewage
collection line.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
51.999
Cross-reference:
   Building sewers and connections, see §§
50.20 through
50.27
   Private sewage disposal systems, see §
50.03
§ 51.006 OWNERSHIP OF LINES AND METERS.
   The city shall own all lines, meters, and other water and sewer equipment as
shall be paid for by the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.007 AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS.
   This chapter shall not be amended without the permission of the holders of a
majority (in amount) of outstanding bonds of the city, plus the permission of
the Farmers’ Home Administration, United States Department of Agriculture, so
long as the United States is the owner or insurer of any bonds issued by the
city and so long as any of the bonds remain unpaid.
(Prior Code, § 51.08) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
§ 51.020 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations, prohibitions, and conditions contained in this subchapter
shall be deemed to supplement the bond ordinance and the water and sewer rate
ordinance adopted by the city in connection with the financing of the municipal
combined water and sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 51.15) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.021 SUPERVISION OF TAPS AND CONNECTIONS.
   All taps and connections to the water mains and sewer of the city shall be
made by and/or under the direction and supervision of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 51.16) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022 DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE.
   Water service may be discontinued by the Superintendent for any violation of
any rule, regulation, or condition of service, and especially for any of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Misrepresentation in the application or contract as to the property or
fixtures to be supplied, or as to additional use of water or sewer service, or
as to unusual or extraordinary use of sewer facilities;
   (B)   Failure to report to the city additions to the property or fixtures to
be supplied, or of additional use of water or sewer service;
   (C)   Resale or giving away of water;
   (D)   Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect service pipes or
failure to keep the same in suitable state of repair;
   (E)   Tampering with a meter, meter seal, service, or valves, or permitting
such tampering by others;
   (F)   Connection, cross-connection, or permitting the same, of any separate
water supply to premises which receive water from the city; or
   (G)   Nonpayment of bills.
(Prior Code, § 51.17) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.023 DISCONTINUING SERVICE.
   Any customer desiring to discontinue the water or sewer service to his or
her premises for any reason must give notice of discontinuance in writing at
the City Hall; otherwise, a customer shall remain liable for all water used and
water or sewer services rendered to such premises by the city unless this
notice is received by the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.18) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.024 MAILING OF BILLS AND NOTICES.
   Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the city will
be mailed to the customer at the address listed on the application unless a
change of address has been filed in writing with the city. The city shall not
otherwise be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice, nor will the
customer be excused from the payment of any bill or any performance required in
the notice.
(Prior Code, § 51.19) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.025 INTERRUPTIONS OF SERVICE.
   The city shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruption of
service and, when these interruptions occur, will endeavor to reestablish
service with the shortest possible delay. When the service is interrupted, all
consumers affected by the interruption will be notified in advance whenever
possible.
(Prior Code, § 51.20) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.026 CITY’S LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES CAUSED BY LINE BREAKS.
   The city shall in no event be held responsible for any claim made against it
by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by reason of any
other interruption of the supply of water caused by the failure or breakage of
machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs. No person shall be entitled to
damages nor for any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption of
service which in the opinion of the city may be deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 51.21) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.027 BOILERS AND PRESSURE VESSELS.
   Customers having boilers or pressure vessels receiving a supply of water
from the city must have a check valve on the water supply line and a vacuum
valve on the steam line to prevent collapse in case water supply from the city
is discontinued or interrupted for any reason, with or without notice.
(Prior Code, § 51.22) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.028 USERS’ PREMISES SUBJECT TO INSPECTION.
   Periodic inspections of water and service lines shall be made upon issuance
of an administrative search warrant for the area, to determine whether the
conditions merit attention by the city within the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.23) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.029 PIPING.
   Piping on the premises of a customer must be so installed that connections
are conveniently located with respect to the city lines and mains. The customer
shall provide a place for metering which is unobstructed and accessible at all
times. The customer shall furnish and maintain a cutoff valve on his or her
side of the meter, and the city will furnish a like valve on its side of the
meter.
(Prior Code, § 51.24) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.030 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES.
   The customer’s service lines shall be installed and maintained by the
customer at his or her own expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the city’s rules and regulations and with the regulations of
the county’s Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 51.25) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.031 LIABILITY OF CUSTOMERS.
   If any loss or damage to the property of the city or any accident or other
injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the negligence or
wrongful action of the customer, a member of his or her household, or his or
her agent or employee, the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall
be paid by the customer to the city, and any liability otherwise resulting
shall be that of the customer.
(Prior Code, § 51.26) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.032 WATER TO BE USED FOR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION ONLY.
   Water furnished by the city may be used for domestic consumption by the
customer, members of his or her household, and employees only. The customer
shall not sell or give the water to any other person.
(Prior Code, § 51.27) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
 § 51.033 EASEMENTS.
   Each customer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed, to the city, a perpetual easement and right-of-way across any
property owned or controlled by the customer whenever such easement or right-
of-way is necessary for the city water or sewer facilities and lines, so as to
enable the city to furnish service to the customer.
(Prior Code, § 51.28) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.034 WATER FOR BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION PURPOSES.
   (A)   Water for building or construction purposes will be furnished by meter
measurement, only after suitable deposit has been made, the minimum deposit
shall be $10. The amount of the deposit shall be determined by the city based
upon the size of the construction work contemplated. All water for building or
construction purposes, as set forth in the permit, must pass through one and
the same meter.
   (B)   Water so supplied shall be discharged through a hose or pipe directly
upon the material to be made wet, or into a barrel or other container, and in
no case upon the ground or into or through a ditch or trench. All use of water
by any party other than applicant, or use of water for any purpose or upon any
premises not so stated or described in the application, must be prevented by
the applicant, or water service may be discontinued to the applicant without
notice.
(Prior Code, § 51.29) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.035 SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   Special terms and conditions may be made where water is used by the city or
community for public purposes such as fire extinguishment, public parks, and
the like.
(Prior Code, § 51.30) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.036 LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The City Council hereby authorizes the use of all city streets,
highways, alleys, and public ways for the construction and maintenance of
extensions, additions, and improvements to the municipal waterworks system of
the city, without the necessity of further permits, licenses, or other
certifications from the city.
   (B)   The city will construct extensions to its water and sewer lines to
points within its service area, but the city is not required to make any such
installation unless the customer pays to the city the entire cost of the
installation.
   (C)   All line extensions shall be evidenced by a contract signed by the
city and the person advancing funds for the extension, but each contract shall
be null and void unless approved by the Farmers’ Home Administration and other
governing bodies.
   (D)   If refund of the advance is to be made, the following method shall
apply: the refund shall be in an amount equal to 20% of the total gross revenue
of water sales per year for each service connected to the new extension
prescribed in the agreement, for a period not to exceed five years, provided
that the aggregate payments do not exceed the total amount deposited.
   (E)   No refund shall be made from any revenue received from any lines
leading up to or beyond the particular line extension covered by contract.
   (F)   All decisions in connection with the manner of installation of any
extension and maintenance thereof shall remain in the exclusive control of the
city; the extension shall be the property of the city; and no other person
shall have any right, title, or interest therein.
(Prior Code, § 51.31) (Ord. passed 4-7-1975; Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.037 REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The city may refuse service to any person, not presently a customer, when in
the opinion of the city the capacity of the facilities will not permit such
service.
(Prior Code, § 51.32) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.038 CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints may be made to the Superintendent of the system, whose decision
may be appealed to the City Council within ten days, otherwise, the
Superintendent’s decision will be final.
(Prior Code, § 51.33) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.039 FLOODPLAIN RESTRICTION.
   Pursuant to the letter of conditions, the city hereby agrees that it will
deny water service to any future customer who builds a structure in a
designated floodplain or, in the alternative, such customer must provide
evidence and a justification for approval by the city and rural development
officials that there are no other alternatives to construction or development
within the designated floodplain. The city must be a participant in the
National Flood Insurance Program and the customer or developer must obtain the
required permits prior to the tap-on restrictions being waived.
(Order 2015-01, passed 11-2-2015)
METERS
§ 51.050 METERS REQUIRED.
   It shall be mandatory for all customers of the waterworks and sewer systems
to be metered, and the schedule of rates prescribed in this chapter shall be
uniformly charged to all customers of the systems, including all residential,
commercial, and industrial establishments in any manner directly or indirectly
connected with and served by the waterworks and sewer systems of the city. No
one shall receive or be entitled to free water or sewer service or to any such
service without paying the full rates specified in this chapter. Dual meter
hookups (where one customer’s metered usage registers on another’s meter) are
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 51.40) (Ord. passed 9-2-1986; Ord. passed 4-16-1990)
§ 51.051 METER DEPOSIT AUTHORIZED.
   The Superintendent shall have the right to require that a nominal sum, or
such other meter deposit as may be specified or revised from time to time in
any applicable rate ordinance, shall be placed on deposit with the city by a
customer for the purpose of establishing or maintaining the customer’s credit
or as assurance for the payment of water bills by that customer.
(Prior Code, § 51.41) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
Cross-reference:
   Amount of meter deposit, see §
51.070(B)
§ 51.052 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF METERS.
   All meters shall be installed, renewed, and maintained at the expense of the
city, and the city reserves the right to determine the size and type of meter
used. In any event commercial users anticipating monthly usage in excess of
50,000 gallons shall be required to install a compound master meter.
(Prior Code, § 51.42) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980; Ord. passed 2-8-1989)
§ 51.053 READING OF METERS.
   Meters will be read monthly between the fifteenth and twentieth of each
month.
(Prior Code, § 51.43) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.054 METER TESTS; NONFUNCTIONING METERS.
   (A)   Upon written request of any customer, the meter serving the customer
shall be tested by the city. This test will be made without charge to the
customer if the meter has not been tested within 12 months preceding the
requested test; otherwise, a charge of $3 will be made and then only if the
test indicates meter accuracy within the limits of 2%. If a meter is inaccurate
in excess of 2%, adjustments shall be made for the two preceding months prior
to test according to the inaccuracy in excess of 2%.
   (B)   Where a meter has ceased to register, or meter reading cannot be
obtained, the quantity of water consumed will be based upon an average of the
prior six months’ consumption, considering the conditions of water service
prevailing during the period in which the meter fails to register.
(Prior Code, § 51.44) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.055 SPECIAL METERS FOR USAGE NOT RELATED TO WATER.
   In the event any building or premises uses water in excess of 10,000 gallons
per month as shown by the water meter readings for two consecutive months, and
it can be shown that a substantial portion of the water as so measured does not
and cannot enter the municipal sewer facilities, then the Superintendent may
determine, in such manner as may be found practicable, the amount of water
entering the sewers, in which event the sewer rate or charge shall be based
thereon, or the Superintendent may require or permit the installation of
additional meters or measuring devices in such manner as to determine the
quantity of water or sewage actually entering the municipal sewer facilities,
in which case the sewer rate or charge shall be based thereon.
(Prior Code, § 51.45) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.056 TAMPERING WITH METERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to tamper with,
break, mutilate, alter, or change any water meter installed by or belonging to
the city, the purpose of the meter being to measure the amount of water used by
the water users of the city so that the customers can be properly billed for
the same. It shall also be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
park any motor vehicle over water meters or place any obstruction of any kind
over water meters which would in any way prevent the meter from being
accurately read, or which would impair the function of the meters. It shall
further be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to turn any of the
meters on or off. It shall also be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to remove, cut, mutilate, or tamper with any locking device placed
on the meter by or belonging to the city to prevent usage of said meter.
(Prior Code, § 51.46) (Ord. passed 4-2-1962; Ord. 2018-03, passed 6-22-2018)
Penalty, see §
51.999
WATER AND SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.070 WATER CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   A waterworks connection charge shall be made for each water connection
with the municipal waterworks system in the amount of $500 if the connection is
inside the city limits and $650 if the connection is outside the city limits.
In the event the connection cost exceeds the connection fee (tap-on fee), the
amount charged will be the actual cost of meter, meter box, connections, labor,
and the like or an amount which the City Council deems appropriate.
   (B)   A meter deposit of $25 for water customers and $50 for water and sewer
customers shall be placed on deposit with the city for the purpose of
establishing or maintaining the customer’s credit or as assurance for the
payment of water and sewer bills by that customer.
   (C)   A meter deposit of $50 for water customers and $50 for home owner
water and sewer customers, $100 for renter water and sewer customers, shall be
placed on deposit with the city for the purpose of establishing or maintaining
the customer’s credit or as assurance for the payment of water and sewer bills
by that customer. All homeowners will be responsible for any outstanding bills
left from any renters.
(Prior Code, § 51.55) (Ord. passed 9-2-1986; Ord. 2005-05, passed 10-3-2005;
Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-19-2009; Ord. 2011-03, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 51.071 BASIC WATER RATES.
   The following shall constitute the basic monthly water rates for the water
supplied by the waterworks system of the city.
   (A)   Minimum charge. The minimum bill shall be $18 per month for customers
inside the city limits and $30 per month for customers outside the city limits.
In addition, a maintenance fee of $3 per monthly bill for customers inside the
city limits and $5 per monthly bill for customers outside the city limits shall
be charged and placed in a separate cash account for upgrading and maintaining
the water system.
   (B)   Meter rates for water usage in addition to the monthly minimum water
rates specified above. The following metered charges shall be made for each
1,000 gallons or less of water consumption per month to customers of all size
water connections.
 
Number of Gallons of Water Per Month Water Charge Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
                                     $18 (minimum monthly charge inside city
First 2,000 or less                  limits)
                                     $30 (minimum monthly charge outside city
                                     limits)
All usage above 2,000 gallons        $5.40 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (C)   Meter rates for commercial water usage in addition to the monthly
minimum water rates specified above. The following metered charges shall be
made for each 1,000 gallons or less of water consumption per month to customers
of all size water connections.
 
Number of Gallons of Water Per Month Water Charge Per 1,000 Gallons Per Month
                                     $25.27 (minimum monthly charge inside city
First 3,000 or less                  limits)
                                     $35.58 (minimum monthly charge outside
                                     city limits)
Next 9,000                           $4.64
Next 10,000                          $4.13
Next 30,000                          $3.81
All over 51,000                      $3.10
 
(Prior Code, § 51.56) (Ord. passed 9-2-1986; Ord. passed 2-8-1989; Ord. 95-2,
passed 5-1-1995; Ord. 2006-05, passed 9-27-2006; Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-19-
2009; Ord. 2011-03, passed 8-8-2011; Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-5-2016; Ord. 2020-
07, passed 9-23-2020)
§ 51.072 SEWER RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Sewer connection charges. A sewer connection charge shall be paid for
each sewer tap made to the municipal sewer system in the amount of $750 if the
connection is inside the city limits and $900 if the connection is outside the
city limits. In the event the connection cost exceeds the connection fee (tap-
on fee), the amount charged will be the actual cost of making the connection
(parts, labor, and the like) or an amount which the City Council deems
appropriate.
   (B)   Monthly retail sewer rates and charges. The following schedule of
rates shall apply to each user of the wastewater treatment system: minimum
monthly bill for sewer service shall be a flat rate of $45 per 2,000 gallons of
water treated based upon quantity of water used. An additional $6.40 per 1,000
gallons of water treated based upon quantity of water treated will be assessed
after the initial 2,000 gallons.
   (C)   Monthly wholesale customer’s sewer treatment rates and charges.
Wholesale wastewater treatment customers shall pay for wastewater treatment
services pursuant to the terms and conditions of any wholesale wastewater
treatment contract as may entered into from time to time by and between the
city and the respective wholesale customer.
(Prior Code, § 51.57) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980; Ord. passed 9-2-1986; Ord. passed
2-8-1989; Ord. 95-2, passed 5-1-1995; Ord. 2004-05, passed 9-16-2004; Ord.
2009-03, passed 10-19-2009; Ord. 2011-03, passed 8-8-2011; Ord. 2016-03, passed
6-30-2016; Ord. 2018-01, passed 2-27-2018; Ord. 2019-02, passed 2-14-2019; Ord.
2020-03, passed 2-17-2020; Ord. 2024-001, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 51.073 TREATMENT OF OVERSTRENGTH OR TOXIC WASTE.
   Users having a discharge over the normal sewer strength of 300 milligrams
per liter total suspended solids or 250 milligrams per liter biochemical oxygen
demand shall incur an additional charge to be determined on the basis of the
variable costs attributed to wastewater strength.
(Prior Code, § 51.58) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980; Ord. passed 9-2-1986)
§ 51.074 LIABILITY FOR RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges for water and sewer service shall be billed to the
owners or occupants of the premises, and if the occupant of any premises is not
also the owner, both the owner and the occupant shall be responsible for the
payment of the water or sewer bill, which, if unpaid, shall constitute a lien
upon the premises.
(Prior Code, § 51.59) (Ord. passed 9-2-1986)
§ 51.075 REVIEW OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The city shall review not less often than every two years the sewage
contributions of users, the total cost of operation and maintenance of the
sewage works, and user charges.
   (B)   User charges shall be revised as necessary to accomplish the
following:
      (1)   The foregoing rates and charges shall be revised from time to time
as may be necessary in order that the city may comply with the covenants and
undertakings securing any bonds of the city which may be outstanding from time
to time and which by their terms are payable from the revenues of the municipal
waterworks system or the municipal sewer system of the city;
      (2)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operations and
maintenance cost among users of the treatment system;
      (3)   Generate sufficient revenues to offset costs associated with the
proper operation and maintenance of the sewage system; and
      (4)   Excessive strength and toxicity surcharges shall be reviewed at the
time of and in conjunction with the review of user charges. Surcharge rates
shall be revised where necessary to reflect current treatment and monitoring
costs.
(Prior Code, § 51.60) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.076 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   The rates and charges for both water service and sewer service shall
be billed in the aggregate monthly on the same billing on or about the first
day of each month, and all bills for such services shall be due when rendered.
If any bill is not paid within 15 days following the date rendered, a
delinquency penalty of 15% of the amount of the bill shall attach and be
payable in addition to the amount of the bill. If not paid within this 15-day
period, such charges shall be deemed delinquent. The city shall serve a
customer written notice of his or her delinquency, and of the fact that the
customer is entitled, upon written request, to a hearing on the question of
termination of service. If the due date falls on Saturday, Sunday, or any
holiday which the utility observes, the next business day following will become
the due date. If remittance is by mail, the date stamped by the post office
becomes the date of payment.
   (B)   It is intended that bills for sewer service and water delivered to the
same premises shall be billed, collected, and enforced together, and if any
delinquent bill is not paid within 25 days after rendition thereof, and if no
hearing is requested, or if a hearing is requested and timely held, and such
customer’s delinquency is thereby established, the Superintendent or other
authorized official shall discontinue or shut off the water service to the
premises served, and the water service shall not be reinstated until the entire
bill for both water and sewer service is paid in full. An additional fee or
charge of $50 shall be made and collected for reinstating service when any such
delinquent bill or bills are paid. The City Attorney is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce and collect any charges remaining delinquent for 30 days.
   (C)   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the total charge which is
attributed to operations and maintenance of the sewage system.
(Prior Code, § 51.61) (Ord. passed 9-2-1986; Ord. 2002-02, passed 5-6-2002;
Ord. 2004-05, passed 916-2004; Ord. 2007-04, passed 7-2-2007; Ord. 2011-03,
passed 8-8-2011; Ord. 2022-001, passed 2-14-2022; Ord. 2023-003, passed 9-11-
2023)
§ 51.077 SPECIAL RATES AND CHARGES.
   Whenever it is determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to classify
any commercial institutions or industries by reason of the unusual purpose for
which water is used, or by reason of the character of the sewage, water, or
other liquid wastes discharged therefrom, or whenever the established schedules
of rates and charges for any reason are not applicable, then special rates or
other charges may be established by the City Council, and any person, firm, or
corporation being dissatisfied with the established schedules of rates and
charges by reason of peculiar or unusual use of occupancy of any premises, and
consequently alleging peculiar or unusual uses of water, may file application
with the City Council or with any other board or body of the city which may be
in charge and control of the municipal waterworks and sewer systems, for
special classification rates and charges.
(Prior Code, § 51.62) (Ord. passed 10-6-1980)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 51.99)
CHAPTER 52: CROSS-CONNECTIONS
Section
   
52.01   Title
   
52.02   Purpose and authority
   
52.03   Definitions
   
52.04   Requirements
§ 52.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Nortonville
Cross-Connections Chapter”.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) (Ord. 95-3, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 52.02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish a program to assure
that the public water supply is protected from contamination due to backflow or
cross-connections. The city recognizes that contamination of the public water
supply presents an imminent health hazard to the residential and nonresidential
users of the public water system; the threat of significant economic loss due
to disrupted water service to such residential and nonresidential water users;
and the potential liability to the city.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
401 KAR 8:020 as enacted by the state’s Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Cabinet.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 96.355.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) (Ord. 95-3, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 52.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. The measured vertical distance from the lowest end of a potable
water outlet to the flood rim or line of the fixture or receptacle into which
it discharges. The minimum required AIR GAP shall be twice the effective
opening of the potable water outlet.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY. Any device that may be approved by the
Environmental Protection Cabinet in lieu of proper air gap separation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city’s public water supply. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include
water from any natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream, or body of
water or any water or other substance of unknown or questionable quality that
may present a health or system hazard to the potable public water supply.
   BACK PRESSURE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
under pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system
from any source other than the original water source.
   BACK SIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source
other than the original water source caused by the reduction of pressure in the
potable water supply system.
   BACKFLOW. The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. A listing of acceptable BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES and degree of
hazard is available in the state’s plumbing law, regulations, and code.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply by
any waste product, fluid, substance, compound, or other material to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or
fixtures between two otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains
potable water and the other nonpotable water or substance of questionable
quality, through which, or because of which, backflow may occur into the
potable water system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION - CONTROLLED. A connection between a potable water system
and a nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly
properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the
protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   THERMAL EXPANSION TANK. A device installed on the cold water supply line
near a water heater to compensate for the expansion of water within a water
system when such water is heated.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 95-3, passed 5-1-1995)
§ 52.04 REQUIREMENTS.
   The city shall provide protection to the public water system against
backflow by implementing the following requirements.
   (A)   Residential. Buildings used for habitation or occupancy shall be
considered as residential buildings. No water service connection to any
premises shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such
service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. Residential
service connections shall be considered as low hazard applications and all such
connections shall have a minimum dual check valve backflow preventer installed
between the water meter and the residence. The city may require additional or
alternate backflow prevention assemblies if the degree of hazard constitutes a
higher level of protection for the public water system.
   (B)   Nonresidential. No water service connection to any nonresidential
facility shall be installed or allowed to be installed by the city unless such
water service connection is protected by a backflow prevention assembly. The
type of protective device required shall be determined at the time of
installation of the service connection and shall be commensurate with the
degree of hazard at the point of such service connection. At a minimum, the
service connection shall be installed with a dual check valve backflow
preventer. In the event activities to occur within a nonresidential facility
changes and creates a higher degree of hazard, then the backflow prevention
assembly shall be replaced with an assembly which provides acceptable
protection.
   (C)   Inspections. The customer’s water system shall be open for inspection
at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to determine
whether cross-connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violation of this chapter, exist. When such a condition becomes known, the city
shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a
physical break in the service line until the customer has corrected the
condition in conformance with the state and city statutes relating to plumbing,
water supplies, and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto. Water service to
any premises shall be discontinued if it is found that a backflow prevention
assembly required by this chapter has been removed, by-passed, or if an
unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises. Service will not be
restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
   (D)   Existing service connections. All existing water service connections
which do not have backflow prevention assemblies or existing water service
connections which have less than the minimum required backflow prevention
assemblies shall, except for the inspection requirements, be excluded from the
requirements of this chapter so long as the city is assured that the public
water system is satisfactorily protected. Whenever the existing service
connection is moved or requires more than minimum maintenance or when the city
determines that a hazard to health exists, then a backflow prevention assembly
meeting the requirements of this chapter shall be installed on such existing
service connection. Periodically, the city shall install or require to be
installed backflow prevention assemblies on existing unprotected water service
connections until such time that all water service connections within the
public water system are equipped with backflow prevention assemblies. Backflow
prevention assemblies shall not be installed on existing service connections
until after the property owner of such residential or commercial property has
been informed of the actual potential hazards that may be created as a result
of such backflow assembly installation. Notices provided to such property
owners shall include the following language adopted in 815 KAR 20.129 § 2, item
(6): when cross-connection control devices are properly installed, they create
a closed water system. A properly sized thermal expansion tank shall be
installed in the cold water supply located as near the water heater as
possible.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 95-3, passed 5-1-1995)
CHAPTER 53: NATURAL GAS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Term
Obligations of Franchisee
   
53.15   No obligation of public property
   
53.16   Repair of damages
   
53.17   Conduct of work activities
   
53.18   Installation of underground pipelines
Application and Interpretation
   
53.30   Removal of gas system
   
53.31   Force majeure
   
53.32   Assignment
   
53.33   Binding effect
   
53.34   Effectiveness of ordinance
   
53.35   Section and other headings
Bid Requirements
   
53.50   Receipt of and advertisement for bids
   
53.51   Consideration of bids
   
53.52   Deposit and bond requirements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FRANCHISEE. The individual person, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
unincorporated association, trustee, or public corporation that is awarded by
the city the franchise created by this chapter.
   GAS. Natural gas, artificial gas, and any mixture of such gases.
   GAS SYSTEM. Any and all pipelines (as hereinafter defined), meters, valves,
compressors, anti-corrosion items, facilities, structures, machinery,
equipment, and appurtenances of any kind that franchisee, in its sole
discretion, may deem necessary or advisable for the exercise of the franchise
and rights granted to franchisee pursuant to this chapter.
   PIPELINES. Any and all above-ground and below-ground pipes, including, but
not limited to, mains, distribution lines, secondary lines, laterals, and other
pipes, that have been, are being, or are intended to be used at any time in, or
in connection with, the sale, transmission, distribution, or transportation of
gas within the city.
   PUBLIC WAYS. The present and future streets, alleys, avenues, boulevards,
lanes, parkways, sidewalks, roads, highways, rights-of-way, and other public
ways and real property located within the municipal boundaries of the city and
owned by, or under the control of, the city.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
§ 53.02 TERM.
    The term of the franchise and rights created hereby shall be for a period
of 20 years, commencing on the latter of the date that franchisee’s bid to
purchase this franchise is accepted by the city or the expiration of the
natural gas franchise held by Western Kentucky Gas Company immediately
preceding this franchise.
(Prior Code, § 53.02) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
OBLIGATIONS OF FRANCHISEE
§ 53.15 NO OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The franchisee shall not, unnecessarily or for any unreasonable period of
time, obstruct or interfere with the public use of any of the public ways.
(Prior Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
§ 53.16 REPAIR OF DAMAGES.
   (A)   The franchisee shall repair any and all damages caused solely by the
franchisee to any of the public ways and shall restore, as nearly as
practicable, such property to substantially its condition immediately prior to
the incident causing such damage.
   (B)   The franchisee shall commence such repairs immediately upon completion
of the work or activity in which the franchisee was involved at the time the
damage occurred and shall complete such repairs as promptly as possible.
(Prior Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
§ 53.17 CONDUCT OF WORK ACTIVITIES.
   The franchisee shall use reasonable care in conducting its work and
activities in order to prevent injury to any person and unnecessary damage to
any real or personal property.
(Prior Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
§ 53.18 INSTALLATION OF UNDERGROUND PIPELINES.
   The franchisee shall, when reasonably practicable, install all pipelines
underground at such depth and in such manner so as not to interfere with the
existing pavement, curbs, gutters, underground wires or cables, or water or
sewer pipes owned or controlled by the city.
(Prior Code, § 53.06) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION
§ 53.30 REMOVAL OF GAS SYSTEM.
   The franchisee may remove all or any part of the gas system upon the
expiration or termination of the franchise and rights granted hereby.
(Prior Code, § 53.07) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
§ 53.31 FORCE MAJEURE.
   Notwithstanding anything expressly or impliedly to the contrary contained
herein, in the event the franchisee is prevented, wholly or partially, from
complying with any obligation or undertaking contained herein by reason of any
event of force majeure, then, while so prevented, compliance with such
obligations or undertakings shall be suspended. The term FORCE MAJEURE, as used
herein, shall mean any cause not reasonably within the franchisee’s control and
includes, but is not limited to, acts of God; strikes; lock-outs; wars; riots;
orders or decrees of any lawfully constituted federal, state, or local body;
contagions or contaminations hazardous to human life or health; fires; storms;
floods; wash-outs; explosions; breakages or accidents to machinery or
pipelines; inability to obtain or delay in obtaining rights-of-way, materials,
supplies, or labor permits; permanent or temporary failures of gas supply or
gas transportation services; or necessary repair, maintenance, or replacement
of facilities used in the performance of the obligations contained in this
chapter. Nothing in this force majeure provision or the operation hereof shall
cause or be deemed to cause the term of this franchise to extend beyond 20
years as set forth in section 53.02.
(Prior Code, § 53.08) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
§ 53.32 ASSIGNMENT.
   The franchisee is hereby given the right to assign, without the consent of
the city, the franchise created by this chapter to any person, firm, or
corporation that has received from the state’s Public Service Commission any
and all required certificates of convenience and necessity for obtaining a
franchise.
(Prior Code, § 53.09) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
§ 53.33 BINDING EFFECT.
   This chapter shall extend to, be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of,
the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.
(Prior Code, § 53.10) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
§ 53.34 EFFECTIVENESS OF ORDINANCE.
   This chapter shall be deemed effective upon its publication pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
(Prior Code, § 53.12) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
§ 53.35 SECTION AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The section and other headings contained in this chapter are for reference
purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.13) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
BID REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.50 RECEIPT OF AND ADVERTISEMENT FOR BIDS.
   The Mayor, or such other person as the Mayor may designate, shall, after due
advertisement, receive bids publicly for the franchise created in this chapter.
Such bids shall be in writing and shall be delivered to the Mayor or the
Mayor’s designee by 3:00 p.m. on February 28, 1997 (the “bid deadline”).
Advertisements for such bids shall be published in a newspaper meeting the
qualifications of KRS 424.120 once a week for three successive weeks, provided
that at least one of such publications shall occur not less than seven nor more
than 21 days before the bid deadline. All costs and expenses for such
advertisements shall be borne by franchisee and shall be paid directly by the
franchisee or reimbursed to the city within a reasonable time after the city’s
acceptance of the franchisee’s bid.
(Prior Code, § 53.14) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
§ 53.51 CONSIDERATION OF BIDS.
   The Mayor shall present all written bids to the City Council at its first
meeting scheduled after the bid deadline for the City Council’s consideration
and approval. The City Council reserves the right to reject any and all bids
received and, in such event, to direct, by resolution or ordinance, that the
franchise created hereby be offered again for sale until a satisfactory bid is
received and approved.
(Prior Code, § 53.15) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
§ 53.52 DEPOSIT AND BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   Each bid shall be accompanied by a deposit and bond in compliance with KRS
96.020, provided, however, that no deposit or bond shall be required of a
bidder that already owns in the city a plant and equipment sufficient to render
the service required under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.16) (Ord. 97-1, passed 2-2-1997)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   RAILROADS
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, on, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on any street except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose such traffic
regulations as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed
two weeks. If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer
than two weeks, the City Clerk shall be notified in writing of the extended
order.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go”, “Caution”, or “Stop”, or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”. Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”. Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane, all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or
display on or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or
device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official
traffic device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct
the movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes
with the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency, any police officer may at his or her discretion disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limit
   
71.06   Vehicular weight limitation
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.36   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.37   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Parades
   
71.50   Definitions
   
71.51   Permit required
   
71.52   Application for permit
   
71.53   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.54   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.55   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.56   Alternative permit
   
71.57   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.58   Contents of permit
   
71.59   Duties of permittee
   
71.60   Public conduct during parades
   
71.61   Revocation of permit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this
division (C) rather than division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building, the operator shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The operator
of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley from the
roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99         
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   The speed limit on all city-maintained streets shall be 25 mph, with
the exception of the city-maintained streets specified by the Mayor and City
Council.
   (B)   The speed on all city maintained alleyways shall be ten mph, with the
exception of the city-maintained alleyways specified by the Mayor and City
Council.
   (C)   Whoever violates the provisions of this section shall be subject to
the fine schedule set forth in KRS 189.394.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Ord. 2008-03, passed 8-4-2008;
Ord. 2015-03, passed 11-17-2015) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 VEHICULAR WEIGHT LIMITATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or partnership
to operate motor vehicles with a gross weight of more than 18,000 pounds upon
any city-maintained street with the exception of limited usage (such as,
concrete trucks and moving vans).
   (B)   The motor vehicles referred to above of more than a gross weight of
18,000 pounds shall operate only upon Main Street, which is a state-maintained
street.
   (C)   Whoever violates the weight regulations set forth in divisions (A) and
(B) above shall be subject to the same fine as set forth in the fine schedule
of KRS 189.990(2)(a).
(Prior Code, § 71.06) (Ord. passed 7-3-1961, Ord. 93-2, passed 4-5-1993)
Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290) (Prior Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
in such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a Fire Department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the Fire
Department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall, while proceeding
with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (Prior Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (Prior Code, § 71.27) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARADES
§ 71.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or “cruising” as defined herein.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.40)
§ 71.51 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.52 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   The application for a parade permit shall be filed not less than 72
hours or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is proposed to
conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment enroute to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute.
(Prior Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.44)
§ 71.55 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.45)
§ 71.56 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.46)
§ 71.57 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.47)
§ 71.58 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
71.99            
§ 71.59 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.60 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.50) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.61 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.51)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.36 shall be fined not less than $60 nor more than $500, or be imprisoned in
the county jail for not more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   All-night parking
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with accessible parking registration plates
   
72.13   Parking at City Firehouse
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   Required notice to owner; sale of a vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the centerline of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the centerline of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
such vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic
sign or signal at any time in the following places:
      (1)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place
in the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02;
      (2)   On a sidewalk;
      (3)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (4)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (5)   Within an intersection or on a crosswalk;
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
This does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified
vehicles during the performance of their official duties;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign, or traffic-
control device;
      (8)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (9)   On any controlled access highway;
      (10)   Within a highway tunnel; and
      (11)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5),(6)) (Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. passed 7-6-1982) Penalty, see
§
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 ALL-NIGHT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §
72.26
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.50 through
71.61
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of any such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespass
in violation of division (A) above, the owner, lessee, or person in charge of
the property or facility may have the unauthorized motor vehicle removed in
accordance with the provisions of §§
72.25,
72.26.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner’s
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH ACCESSIBLE PARKING REGISTRATION PLATES.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for disabled persons, when operated by a disabled
person or when transporting a disabled person, may be parked in a designated
disabled parking place, or when parked in a metered parking space may be parked
for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any parking limit is imposed may
be parked for two hours in excess of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may
be parked in a loading zone for that period of time necessary to permit
entrance or exit of the disabled person to or from the parked vehicle, but in
no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING AT CITY FIREHOUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a motor vehicle to park that
vehicle on the premises of the Fire Department in a way as to block the ingress
or egress of city fire vehicles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized vehicle to park in the area
adjacent to the Fire Department designated for firefighters’ vehicles only.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) (Ord. passed 7-6-1982) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department, a warrant shall be issued immediately
for the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
(Prior Code, § 72.20)
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER; SALE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
KRS 376.275(2), for the applicable and reasonable charges assessed in
accordance with KRS 281.926 and KRS 281.932, as long as it remains in his or
her possession.
   (B)   If, after a period of 45 days, the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not been paid, the
motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in 376.275(2), may be sold
to pay the charges after the owner and any lienholder have been notified by
certified mail at the addresses specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten days prior to
the time and place of the sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle
pursuant to this section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale
and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver or release of
responsibility for payment of unpaid charges by the owner or responsible
casualty insurer of the vehicle. A lien on a vehicle under this section shall
be subject to prior recorded liens, unless released by any existing lienholder
pursuant to division (C) of this section.
   (C)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title issued
by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail within the
first ten days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928. Such
notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928, shall include the
make, model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner's name and
last known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and state that
the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title free and
clear of any liens, excluding tax liens. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the ten days by the towing and storage company, then
only ten days of storage may be charged. The lienholder has the right to take
possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still enforced, and
paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the motor
vehicle. If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession of the
motor vehicle under this division within 45 days of notification, and all
lienholders agree in writing, the towing company or storage facility may obtain
a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens, excluding tax
liens. Nothing in this section shall allow the transfer of a vehicle subject to
a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
   (D)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS 281.920
through 281.936, KRS 359.230, and KRS 376.275, and the owner does not exercise
the right to take possession of the motor vehicle under KRS 376.275 within 45
days of notification required under KRS 281.928, the towing company or storage
facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of any liens,
excluding tax liens.
(KRS 376.275(1)) (Prior Code, § 72.22)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he or
she is authorized to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time
specified by him or her. After the effective time of such prohibition, no
person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow
emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs
after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on
snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle
parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following
such fall. The prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part
or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section
shall no longer be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.35) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If such announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.37)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city shall
be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined in an amount not
less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 189.990(1)) (Prior Code, § 72.99)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motor scooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulations for operating and riding on motorcycles, see KRS 189.285
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates or riding on a coaster sled or toy vehicle of any
kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed to have
committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
CHAPTER 74: RAILROADS
Section
   
74.01   Obstruction of grade crossings
   
74.02   Use of whistles and bells required
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 OBSTRUCTION OF GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   No railroad company shall obstruct any public highway or street, or
the navigation of any stream, by stopping and permitting trains, engines, or
cars to stand upon a public grade crossing or upon a drawbridge for more than
five minutes at any one time, unless such stopping and standing is caused by
circumstances beyond control of the railroad company.
   (B)   No member of a railroad train crew shall be held personally guilty of
violating this section on proof that his or her action was necessary to comply
with the orders or instructions of the railroad company or its officers;
provided that nothing in this section shall relieve the railroad company from
any responsibility placed upon it by this section.
   (C)   Any railroad company that violates the provisions of this section
shall be fined as set forth in §
74.99. If a grade crossing is obstructed by two or more trains stopping and
standing thereon in succession without allowing accumulated highway traffic to
pass, the obstruction by each such successive train shall constitute a separate
offense.
(KRS 277.200; 277.990) (Prior Code, § 74.02)
§ 74.02 USE OF WHISTLES AND BELLS REQUIRED.
   All railroad companies, their agents, and employees shall, while running an
engine or train of cars within the city, keep the bell of the engine, while the
train is moving, continually ringing, and while approaching a street crossing
or other public crossing in the city shall distinctly sound its whistle for
each crossing at least 100 yards before reaching the crossing.
(Prior Code, § 74.03) (Ord. passed 7-6-1982) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any railroad company violating §
74.01 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(KRS 277.990(6))
   (B)   Any railroad company that violates or permits any of its agents or
employees to violate §
74.02 shall, in addition to subjecting itself to any liability for any damage
caused thereby, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $50 for each offense.
Prosecutions under this division (B) shall not be commenced after six months
from the commission of the offense.
(KRS 277.990(4)) (Prior Code, § 74.99)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets and alleys
      
II.   Street lights
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The following streets shall be used for one-way traffic only.
 
Street                     Location                        Direction Ord. Date
Alley on the north side of
City Sewer Maintenance     From Oak Street to Main Street  East      7-6-1982
Building
Louisville Avenue          From Main Street to Oak Street  West      7-6-1982
                           From Louisville Avenue to the
Oak Street                 alley on the north side of City South     7-6-1982
                           Sewer Maintenance Building
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75 Schd. I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. STREET LIGHTS.
   (A)   It has been decided that three street light changes are to be made.
One street light (with two lights), including one pole to be added to the south
side of the Gordon Park playground area at 199 S. Main. One light to be added
to existing pole #06493-00281 (second pole from the intersection of
Hopkinsville Road and Red Hill Road) on Red Hill Road. One light to be added to
an existing pole #1853248 (in front of the residence at 364 S. Hopkinsville
Road).
   (B)   It has been decided that 12 street light changes are to be made.
Replace existing street lights two in the front parking lot of City Hall (pole
#07493-01554) to Cobra Head LED 228, replacing one existing light on Main
Street, in front of City Hall (pole #07551-1468) to Cobra Head LED 228,
replacing all four lights at Gordon Park playground area at 199 S. Main to
Cobra Head LED 228, replace one light in the rear parking lot at City Hall
(pole #07325-01664), next to the cafeteria to Cobra Head LED 228. Replace one
light across from City Maintenance Building, 77 North Oak Street, (pole #08175-
50401) to Cobra Head LED 228, add one Cobra Head LED 228 light on corner of Elm
Street and Jessie Street (pole #1853266), replace one light behind the City
Maintenance Building to Cobra Head LED 228, add one 35-foot pole and one Cobra
Head LED 228 light on West Poplar Street, in the northeast corner of the City
Maintenance Building property.
(Res. passed 6-12-2018; Res. passed 3-18-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Fowl running at large
   
90.08   Keeping hogs in city
   
90.09   Keeping livestock in city
Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Dogs running at large
   
90.22   Noise disturbance
   
90.23   Impoundment; warrant
   
90.24   Reclaiming impounded dog
   
90.25   Dangerous dogs
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. Shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims by the
owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   FOWL. Any feathered creature.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. passed 6-17-1985)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing any
animal other than a dog or cat, tormenting, failing to provide adequate food,
drink, space, or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This subdivision shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including, but not
limited to, horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with the U.S. Department of
Agriculture under the Animal Welfare Act, being 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., or
subject to other federal laws governing animal research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) (Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
   Cruelty to dogs and cats, see KRS 525.135
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display, or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) (Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him or
her to view the animal in his or her presence, or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his or her agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or
his or her agent at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society or animal
shelter or disposed of as the custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner or the agent of the owner of the
animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed veterinarian and
any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further liability for
disposal.
(KRS 257.100) (Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Fowl running at large prohibited. No person shall permit any fowl
owned by him or her or under his or her control or in his or her custody, to
run at large within the city limits.
   (B)   Impoundment. Any peace officer shall impound any fowl found running at
large in the city and shall place same in a protected area set aside by the
city. The owner or bailee of the fowl shall pay to the city for each fowl
impounded, $1 and the cost of feeding and taking care of the fowl.
   (C)   Notice to owner. If the owner of the fowl is known, notice in writing
of the confinement shall be given, and the owner shall forthwith recover the
fowl, subject to payment of fines and costs. If the owner fails to claim the
fowl within three days after notice and pay all fines and costs, or if the
owner is unknown, the city may cause the fowl to be destroyed, or dispose of it
in any other manner it may choose. If it is determined by the peace officer
that the impounded fowl is wild, the fowl may be destroyed immediately.
   (D)   Damages. If any damages are committed by the fowl permitted to run at
large, the owner or bailee of the fowl shall be liable for the amount of
damages and court costs in the event of legal action.
(Prior Code, § 90.07) (Ord. passed 6-17-1985) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 KEEPING HOGS IN CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any live pigs, hogs, or swine
within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 90.08) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 KEEPING LIVESTOCK IN CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any horse, cow,
goat, sheep, or other livestock within the city unless such animal is kept
within an enclosure of not less than one acre per animal, or to maintain or
keep any stall or enclosure for such animals within 200 feet of any dwelling
house except the dwelling house of the owner of such animals. All pens,
stables, and enclosures permitted to be kept in the city shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition and shall be open to inspection by the County
Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 90.09) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   Any dog that bites (to the extent of puncturing or severely
bruising the skin), inflicts injury, assaults, or otherwise attacks a human
being or domestic animal without provocation on public or private property;
      (2)   A dog that is primarily used for fighting dogs; or
      (3)   A dog that, without provocation, has chased or approached a person
on the streets, sidewalks, or any public place in a menacing fashion or with an
apparent attitude of attack.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, six months of age or over, male or
female.
(Prior Code, § 90.15) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2004-07, passed 11-1-2004; Ord.
2021-04, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 90.21 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog to allow the dog to
be at large and not restrained by a leash or confined in an enclosure, or to
run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard, playground, or on any other
public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. passed 7-6-1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he or
she occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 IMPOUNDMENT; WARRANT.
   (A)   Every peace officer or other authorized official shall have the
authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this chapter
and to impound such dog or have such dog impounded in the facilities of the
County Humane Society.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every peace officer or other authorized
official to obtain the name of the owner or keeper of any dog seen running at
large and to obtain a summons or warrant for the owner’s or keeper’s appearance
in District Court.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. passed 7-6-1987)
§ 90.24 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
(Prior Code, § 90.19)
§ 90.25 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Dog owners of dangerous dogs must register the dog with the city. The
cost of said registration is $100 per animal, per year. The owner must provide
identification of the animal(s), the color and approximate size of the animal
(s), and two photos of the animal(s).
   (B)   Dog owners must either securely confine the dog indoors or confine it
outdoors in a securely enclosed and locked pen or other structure that prevents
the entry of young children, as well as the escape of the animal. When not
confined, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain and/or
leash and under the constant control of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 90.20) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2004-07, passed 11-1-2004)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
   (D)   In addition to impounding fees and costs of feeding, any person who
violates the provisions of §
90.07 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $25; each fowl running at
large shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Any person violating §
90.21 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100.
   (F)   Any violation of §
90.25 will be prosecuted by the city’s dangerous dog ordinance and will be
fined $500 for the first offense, $1,000 for the second offense, and $1,500 for
the third or more offenses. If a dangerous dog bites someone and causes severe
injury or death, the owner is subject to all civil liabilities applicable under
state and federal laws.
(Prior Code, § 90.99) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 7-6-1982; Ord. passed 6-17-
1985; Ord. 2004-07, passed 11-1-2004)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.001   Opening permit required
   
91.002   Application and cash deposit
   
91.003   Restoration of pavement
   
91.004   Barriers around excavations
   
91.005   Warning lights
   
91.006   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.020   Public meeting required
   
91.021   Public meeting agenda
   
91.022   City to consider public comments and input
   
91.023   Meeting to be held prior to construction
   
91.024   Separate meeting for each project not required
   
91.025   Exemptions
Obstructions
   
91.040   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.041   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.042   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.043   Removal of ice and snow
Property Numbering
   
91.055   Adoption of uniform numbering system
   
91.056   Street names
   
91.057   Assignment of numbers
   
91.058   Administration
Signs
   
91.070    Placement restricted
 
   
91.999   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.001 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.002 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single
project and shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall
be made on a form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location
of the proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be
excavated, and such other facts as may be provided for.
   (B)   The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to
cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the authorized city
official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.003 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   (1)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill
the excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.002 shall be forfeited. Thereupon, the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it.
      (2)   If the amount of such services performed by the city should exceed
the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper administrative officer
shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.004 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.005 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
   (B)   When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall
advertise for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in
construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful
performance of the work.
   (C)   The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make separate contracts
for the different kinds of work with different parties.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
Statutory reference:
   Sidewalks, construction along public roads, see KRS 178.290
   Sidewalks, ramps for wheelchairs, see KRS 66.660
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.020 PUBLIC MEETING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge, it shall provide an opportunity to the public to
provide input in a public meeting for which notice has been given under KRS
61.823(2) to (4) with regard to the project and to priorities for use of tax
moneys for road and bridge purposes.
(KRS 174.100) (Prior Code, § 91.15)
§ 91.021 PUBLIC MEETING AGENDA.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall include the topic as a specific
item on the public meeting agenda and shall allow any person to speak with
regard to any proposed project, any project which he or she feels should be
built or done which has not been proposed, priorities for completion of
projects, and any other matter related to road or bridge projects.
(KRS 174.100(1)) (Prior Code, § 91.16)
§ 91.022 CITY TO CONSIDER PUBLIC COMMENTS AND INPUT.
   The city shall not be bound by the comments and input provided at the
meeting but shall give due consideration to them.
(KRS 174.100(2)) (Prior Code, § 91.17)
§ 91.023 MEETING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the meeting as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(3)) (Prior Code, § 91.18)
§ 91.024 SEPARATE MEETING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate meeting for
each project. A single meeting encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
meeting, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(4)) (Prior Code, § 91.19)
§ 91.025 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(5)) (Prior Code, § 91.20)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.040 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.041 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.042 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation, while engaging in the construction,
repair, or improvement of any building within the corporate limits may, while
so engaged, obstruct one-third of the abutting street, alley, or sidewalk if
necessary for such purpose; provided the sewers and gutters shall be left open
for a free passage of water.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place,
deposit, or cause to be placed or deposited upon any street, alley, or sidewalk
any wood, stone, lumber, coal, or other thing and allow the same to remain
thereon for more than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) (Ord. passed 9-7-1982) Penalty, see §
91.999
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.043 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
91.999
PROPERTY NUMBERING
§ 91.055 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   A uniform system of numbering properties and principal buildings, shown on
the map identified by the title street name and property number map dated
August 1985, which is filed in the office of the City Clerk is hereby adopted
for use in the city. This map and all explanatory matter thereon is hereby
adopted and made a part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.45) (Ord. passed 9-3-1985)
§ 91.056 STREET NAMES.
   (A)   All streets within the corporate limits of the city shall hereafter be
identified by the name as recorded on the street name and property number map
dated August 1985.
   (B)   No new streets shall be accepted by the city nor municipal
improvements made therein until the streets have been named. If they are
extensions of existing streets, the existing names shall be continued, and if
not extensions, names recorded shall not duplicate or closely approximate
street names already assigned.
   (C)   All street name signs and other references to street names which are
not in conformity with provisions of this subchapter shall be changed to
conform as feasible.
   (D)   The city shall install and maintain street name signs as funding
permits.
(Prior Code, § 91.46) (Ord. passed 9-3-1985) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.057 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   All properties or parcels of land within the corporate limits of the
city shall hereafter be identified by reference to the uniform numbering system
adopted in §
91.055.
   (B)   Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to the frontage
on which the front entrance is located. In case a principal building is
occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate front
entrance of the principal building shall bear a separate number.
   (C)   Numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal building
or each front entrance to such building shall be posted in a manner as to be
visible from the street on which the property is located.
(Prior Code, § 91.47) (Ord. passed 9-3-1985) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.058 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be responsible for maintaining the numbering
system. In the performance of this responsibility he or she shall be guided by
the provisions of §
91.056.
   (B)   The Clerk shall keep a record of all numbers assigned under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.48) (Ord. passed 9-3-1985)
SIGNS
§ 91.070 PLACEMENT RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place any
type sign advertising yard sales, garage sales, promotional sales, events, and
the like on any traffic-control sign or street sign within the corporate limits
of the city.
   (B)   Any sign placed upon city property shall be removed within 24 hours
following the sale, event, and the like.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every police officer to obtain the name of the
person or persons in violation of divisions (A) and (B) above and to obtain a
summons or warrant for the persons to appear in District Court.
(Prior Code, § 91.55) (Ord. 96-4, passed 8-3-1996) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise specified shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation in violation of §
91.042 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $100. Each day the
violation shall exist shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Violation of §§
91.055 through
91.058 shall be a misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine of $l to $5. Each
separate day the violation is continued shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.99)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §
91.070, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 91.55) (Ord. passed 9-7-1982; Ord. passed 9-3-1985; Ord. 96-4,
passed 8-3-1996)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Private nuisances, see KRS 411.500 through 411.570
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   DWELLING. Any part of any building or its premises used as a place of
residence or habitation or for sleeping by any person.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum, or
any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Dangerous or detrimental to life or health
because of: want of repair defects in the drainage, plumbing, lighting,
ventilation, or construction; infection with contagious disease; or the
existence on the premises of an unsanitary condition likely to cause sickness
among occupants of the dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) (Ord. passed 8-3-1998)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop thereon.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dwellings unfit for human habitation. The erection, use, or
maintenance of a dwelling which is unfit for human habitation;
      (2)   Dangerous buildings adjoining streets. Any building, house, or
construction so out of repair and dilapidated that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property using or being upon the streets or
public way of the city adjoining the premises by reason of the collapse of the
building, house, or structure or by the falling of parts thereof or of objects
therefrom;
      (3)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or
other object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is
allowed to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt,
damage, or injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways
adjacent thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof;
      (4)   Dilapidated buildings. Any building, house, or structure which is
so out of repair and dilapidated that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to
catch on fire or communicate fires, or which due to lack of adequate
maintenance or neglect, endangers the public health, welfare, or safety, or
materially interferes with the peaceful enjoyment by owners or occupants of
adjacent property;
      (5)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another;
      (6)   Noise. Emission of noise which is noxious enough to destroy the
environment of dwellings or other uses of property in the vicinity by
interfering with the ordinary comforts of human existence;
      (7)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
      (8)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds, grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, EXCESSIVE shall mean growth to a height
of 12 inches or more;
      (9)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
      (10)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes
with the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage;
      (11)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard,
lot, or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable
offensive odors; and
      (12)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles
in an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts, or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by
the city for such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. passed 8-3-1998) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (B)   Whenever a nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall give five days’ written notice to remedy the nuisance situation.
The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of property,
as it appears on the current tax assessment roll. Upon the failure of the owner
of the property to comply, the authorized city official is authorized to send
employees upon the property to remedy the situation.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
65.8840(8) and this section, and shall be recorded in the office of the County
Clerk. The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other liens, except
state, county, school board, and city taxes, except as provided in division (D)
below. The lien may be enforced by judicial proceeding. In addition to this
remedy or any other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a property upon
which a lien has been attached pursuant to this section shall be personally
liable for the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil penalties, and
other charges and the city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall
have the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
   (D)   The lien provided in division (C) above shall not take precedence or
priority over a previously recorded lien if:
      (1)   The city failed to provide the lien holder a copy of the
determination in accordance with KRS 65.8840(9); or
      (2)   The lien holder received a copy of the determination as required by
KRS 65.8840(9), and the lien holder corrected the violations or paid the fines,
penalty charges, and costs incurred in remedying the violation.
(KRS 65.8840) (Prior Code, § 92.04) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(Prior Code, § 92.05)
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the City Council deems that there is an immediate threat to
the public health, safety, welfare, the City Council may by majority vote
suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall cause notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
(Prior Code, § 92.06)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day’s
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.99)
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
93.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
Burning Within City Limits
   
93.35   Open fires prohibited; exceptions
   
93.36   Burning leaves on city property
   
93.37   Conformance to state regulations
   
93.38   Emergencies
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks that are suitable for use by the public,
designed primarily to produce visible effects by combustion and comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S.
Consumer Product Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic
contents of these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small
devices designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling
devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive
composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive
composition. CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product
Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, are classified as
Division 1.4G explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include
the following.
         (a)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
            1.   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist
of a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic
composition. Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is
produced. Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per
item. Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed
five grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
            2.   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more
than 75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored
sparks, and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may
be provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood
or plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or
cardboard handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than
one tube is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not
exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on
the base by a distance of at least one-half inch.
            3.   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to
50 grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
            4.   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May
be spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common
base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if
the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least
one-half inch.
            5.   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail
or string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
            6.   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
            7.   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or
wire and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
            8.   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect;
         (b)   Aerial devices.
            1.   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing
not more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
            2.   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
            3.   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
            4.   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to
20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
            5.   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to
a wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars”, components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
            6.   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
         (c)   Audible ground devices.
            1.   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
            2.   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
         (d)   Exceptions. Items listed below are classified as “novelties” and
“trick noisemakers” and are not classified as CONSUMER FIREWORKS by the U.S.
Department of Transportation, and their transportation, storage, retail sale,
possession, sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
            1.   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition
that produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length
as the pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
            2.   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic
composition that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary
effect.
            3.   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
            4.   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended
to surprise the user. These devices include the following.
               a.   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
               b.   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both
ends, similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
               c.   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute
quantity of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped,
the device explodes producing a small report.
               d.   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated
with a small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of
the match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
               e.   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with
a small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
               f.   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic
composition that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A
small quantity of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams, may also be used to
produce a small report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
      DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed
primarily to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or
detonation. This term includes, but is not limited to, firecrackers containing
more than two grains (130 milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells
containing more than 40 grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display
pieces which exceed the limits for classification as consumer fireworks.
DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in
CPSC, 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and are classified as class B explosives
by the U.S. Department of Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
      FIREWORKS. Any composition or device for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and
which meets the definition of consumer fireworks or display fireworks as
defined above and as set forth in the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT)
hazardous materials regulations. FIREWORKS does not include:
      (1)   Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper
or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT regulations, and packed and
shipped according to said regulations, are not considered to be fireworks and
shall be allowed to be used and sold at all times;
      (2)   Model rockets and model rocket motors designed, sold, and used for
the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not considered to be
fireworks; or
      (3)   Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of sulfur,
charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed for producing
audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   Legality of items.
      (1)   Items described as ground and hand-held sparkling devices under the
definition of consumer fireworks are legal for retail sale provided all
applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
      (2)   Items described as aerial devices and audible ground devices under
the definition of consumer fireworks as well as display fireworks are not legal
for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter
for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold
at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described as novelties and noisemakers under the definition
of consumer fireworks are legal for retail sale provided all applicable federal
and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708) (Prior Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except for the following:
   (A)   (1)   In cities the Chief of the Fire Department, or Mayor, or similar
official where there is no Fire Department, and in counties outside of cities
the county judge/executive, may grant permits for supervised public displays of
fireworks by municipalities, fair associations, amusement parks, and other
organizations or groups of individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) license and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A competent display operator is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) above shall be issued only to a
competent display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This competent display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 – Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days
in advance of the date of the display. After the privilege is granted, sales,
possession, use, and distribution of fireworks for the display shall be lawful
for that purpose only. No permit granted under this division shall be
transferable. For the purposes of this division, PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS
shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or pyrotechnic materials before a
proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings, and
Construction, with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal, shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to the person holding a display permit
as outlined in division (A) above. The permit holder shall present the permit
along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale;
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use;
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads;
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations;
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency; and
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing, or using consumer fireworks as
defined in §
93.01 and as permitted pursuant to §
93.03.
(KRS 227.710) (Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
93.02, the consumer fireworks described in §
93.01 may be offered for sale, sold at retail, or kept with the intent to sell,
only if the requirements of this section are met.
   (B)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, non-profit, or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks described in §
93.01 shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal in accordance with
KRS 227.715, and display its registration certificate in a conspicuous location
at the site.
   (C)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 (National Fire Protection
Association) – Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, Storage, and Retail
Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (adopted edition).
   (D)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
93.01 to any person under 18 years of age.
(KRS 227.715(1), (7), (8)) (Prior Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her agents,
employees, or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) (Prior Code, § 93.04) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730) (Prior Code, § 93.05)
§ 93.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of
explosive or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or
industry, or gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or
chlorate, toy snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party
novelties and party novelties, which contain less than twenty-five hundredths
of a grain of explosive mixture, or shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in
firearms, or blank cartridges for a show or theater, or for signal or
ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for use by military
organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks provided the same are to be
shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730) (Prior Code, § 93.06)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official.
   (B)   The authorized city official, before granting such permit, may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
93.99
BURNING WITHIN CITY LIMITS
§ 93.35 OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person, firm, corporation, or public agency shall ignite, cause to be
ignited, permit to be ignited, or suffer, allow, or maintain any open fire
within the city limits, except as follows:
   (A)   Fires used for burning of leaves and small limbs shall be permitted in
the city limits;
   (B)   Fires used only for cooking of food for human beings or for
recreational purposes or fires to provide warmth in winter months for persons
whose occupation causes them to be working outdoors;
   (C)   Flare stacks for the combustion of waste gases provided that where
used in petroleum refineries such stacks be equipped with smokeless tips;
   (D)   Fires set for prevention of a fire hazard, including disposal of
dangerous materials where no safe alternate is available, provided prior
approval is obtained from the proper authorities;
   (E)   Fires set for the purpose of weed abatement, land clearing, disease,
and pest prevention, provided prior approval is obtained from the City Fire
Chief;
   (F)   Fires set in connection with agricultural operations related to
growing or harvesting crops, provided prior approval is obtained from the City
Fire Chief; and
   (G)   Fires set for the purpose of bona fide instruction and training of
industrial employees in the methods of fighting fires, provided notice is given
in each instance to the Chief of the Fire Department five days in advance by
the official in charge stating the following:
      (1)   The name, organization, address, and telephone number of the person
submitting notice;
      (2)   The exact location where open burning will be used and the type and
quantity of material to be burned;
      (3)   The schedule date for burning. Should there be a postponement, the
Fire Chief must be notified of the rescheduled date for burning before the
burning shall take place; and
      (4)   Such fire is necessary for bona fide instruction and training.
(Prior Code, § 93.35) (Ord. 94-4, passed 6-7-1994; Ord. 2012-04, passed 4-5-
2012; Ord. 2015-02, passed 10-22-2015) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 BURNING LEAVES ON CITY PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to any person, firm, or corporation to burn leaves or
small limbs on any city property including drainage ditches and street or alley
rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 93.36) (Ord. 94-4, passed 6-7-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.37 CONFORMANCE TO STATE REGULATIONS.
   All permitted open burning must conform to State Fire Regulations.
(Prior Code, § 93.37) (Ord. 94-4, passed 6-7-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.38 EMERGENCIES.
   The Mayor may, in an emergency, allow open burning of prohibited items.
Items to be allowed and dates for burning would be at his or her discretion.
(Prior Code, § 93.38) (Ord. 94-4, passed 6-7-1994)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.04, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to haul or permit another
person to haul coal or other loose material within the city limits unless the
coal or other loose material is covered by a tarpaulin or some other protective
covering sufficient to prevent it from spilling onto the streets and public
ways.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. passed 5-1-1978) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which a penalty is
not otherwise specified shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $500. Each day the violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
94.03 shall be fined $10 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense, and
$100 for the third and subsequent offenses.
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. passed 5-1-1978)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Motorized watercraft prohibited on Nortonville Lake
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Recreation Park Director, see §
31.48
§ 95.01 MOTORIZED WATERCRAFT PROHIBITED ON NORTONVILLE LAKE.
   There shall be no motorized boats, outboard or inboard, nor other motorized
watercraft allowed on the Nortonville Lake. Only boats powered by electric
motors will be permitted on the Nortonville Lake. Further, any boat with a
gasoline tank is prohibited on the Nortonville Lake.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. passed 7-6-1981) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found in violation of §
95.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $25,
nor more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. passed 7-6-1981)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL AND BUSINESS LICENSE FEES (NET PROFITS)
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX
      
114.   CABLE PREMIUM TAX
      
115.   COAL MINING
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL AND BUSINESS LICENSE FEES (NET PROFITS)
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Occupational license application required
   
110.03   Occupational license fee payment required
   
110.04   Apportionment
   
110.05   Employers to withhold
   
110.06   Returns required
   
110.07   Extensions
   
110.08   Payment of estimated fee quarterly
   
110.09   Refunds
   
110.10   Federal audit provisions
   
110.11   Administrative provisions
   
110.12   Information to remain confidential
   
110.13   Use of occupational license fee
   
110.14   Enforcement
   
110.15   Injunctive relief
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession, or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations, or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds, foundations,
corporations, or associations organized and operated for the exclusive and sole
purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary, educational, civic, or
fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings, incomes, or receipts of such
unit, group, or association, inures to the benefit of any private shareholder
or other person.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization, or other legal
entity through which business is conducted.
   CITY. The City of Nortonville, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions, or any other form of
remuneration paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an
employee which are required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and
adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing, or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including, but not limited to, salary reduction arrangements under I.R.C. §§
401(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h), or 457; and
      (2)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any welfare
benefit, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or
other payment method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable
compensation under the Internal Revenue Code, including, but not limited to,
I.R.C. §§ 125 and 132.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee, or elected official of the United States, a state, or any political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident
alien individual, foreign partnership, or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the United States, the term EMPLOYER means such
person.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 31,
2010, inclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2010 that would
otherwise terminate.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in I.R.C. § 61 minus all the deductions
from gross income allowed by I.R.C. Chapter 1, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part, by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not taxed;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under I.R.C. § 172;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass-through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Kentucky Constitution, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the United
States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or non-resident of the
city. Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a
partnership or other form of unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners
or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and
directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, or any document permitted or required to
be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease, or rental of goods, services,
or property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class, county, urban county,
charter county, consolidated local government, school district, special taxing
district, or any other statutorily created entity with the authority to levy
net profits, gross receipts, or occupational license taxes or fees.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue only within the city, means net profit as defined in this section.
TAXABLE NET PROFIT in case of a business entity having payroll or sales revenue
both within and without the city, means net profit as defined in this section,
and as apportioned under §
110.04.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net income is computed.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.02 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city shall
be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license from the city
before the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business
status. Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes in address,
the cessation of business, or any other changes which render the information
supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.03 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, every person or business
entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business entity
that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or the
state’s Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an
occupational license fee for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the city. The occupational license fee shall be measured by 1.5% of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee;
      (2)   The net profits from business conducted in the city by a resident
or nonresident business entity;
      (3)   Each person, association, corporation, or other business engaged in
any occupation, trade, profession, or other business activity in the city shall
pay a minimum license fee of $50, payable in advance, to the city for each tax
year. The minimum fee shall be a credit on the net profit license fee as
otherwise provided in this chapter only or the tax year which the minimum fee
covers and shall not be a credit for any subsequent year; and
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, corporation, or
other business to engage in any occupation, trade, profession, or other
activity in the city without first having applied for and paid the minimum
license fee herein required. If the minimum license fee is not paid prior to
engaging in any business activity, a penalty of $20 per month or fraction
thereof, shall be imposed for the period during which any unlawful business or
activity occurred.
   (B)   The occupational license fee imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company, combined
trust, banking, and title insurance company, organized and doing business in
this state, any savings and loan associations whether state or federally
chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the Kentucky National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies, and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in state, county, and local primary, regular, or
special elections;
      (4) Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed by the state’s Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profits derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their gross receipts derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages;
      (6)   Life insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the Commonwealth;
      (7)   Any profits, earnings, or distributions of an investment fund which
would qualify under KRS 154.20-250 to 154.20-284 to the extent any profits,
earnings, or distributions would not be taxable to an individual investor; and
      (8)   Any company providing multichannel video programming services or
communications services as defined in KRS 136.602. If only a portion of an
entity’s business is providing multichannel video programming services or
communications services including products or services that are related to and
provided in support of the multichannel video programming services or
communications services, this exclusion applies only to that portion of the
business that provides multichannel video programming services or
communications services including products or services that are related to and
provided in support of the multichannel video programming services or
communications services.
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor and Council hereby find that the following occupations
are of such a nature as to require special regulation and supervision, and
therefore the following minimum license fees are imposed on every person
engaged in the business, occupation, calling, or profession, or using, holding,
or exhibiting articles named in this section who shall pay in advance to the
city for each calendar year or fiscal year, or fraction thereof, in accordance
with the yearly basis the licensee uses in making a return under the terms of
this chapter, the license fee as otherwise provided in this chapter; however,
where minimum fees are set forth in the following table for periods less than
one year, the same shall be considered the minimum fee due for the period as
set forth in such table and shall be paid in advance of engaging in such
activity.
      (2)   In the event that a licensee engages in more than one type of
activity in one business entity, the highest minimum license fee shall apply.
Under column head “Date Due” in the following table the words “Before showing”
mean that the license fee per showing is due prior to the date of each showing.
Subject Fee Minimum Fee Date Due
Subject Fee                           Minimum Fee   Date Due
Auction houses                        $100          July 1
Dance halls (any place of business
held open to the general public where $100 per year July 1
patrons are permitted to dance)
Entertainment exhibitions, ride
concessions, carnivals, or circuses   $25           Before showing or operation
regardless of sponsorship, per day
Fortune telling                       $500 per year July 1
Parades, commercial (this section
shall not include Christmas parades
and the like, charitable or patriotic $100          July 1
demonstrations, or school
demonstrations)
Pawnbrokers                           $100          July 1
Residential rental units - one or     $50 per year  July 1
more units
 
   (D)   Regulations for transient-itinerant merchants or businesses are as
follows.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         TEMPORARILY. Not of a permanent nature or stay or involving regular or
routine visits to the city.
         TRANSIENT-ITINERANT MERCHANT OR BUSINESS. Includes any person,
partnership, corporation, or other entity not specifically provided for in this
chapter which passes through the city temporarily for the purpose of conducting
a trade, occupation, profession in general for gain or profit which involves
buying, selling, or exchanging of goods or services.
      (2)   Scope.
         (a)   Those subject to this chapter include, but are not limited to:
            1.   Photographers;
            2.   Appliance salespersons;
            3.   Household furnishings salespersons;
            4.   Magazine salespersons;
            5.   Novelties and confections salespersons;
            6.   Home improvements salespersons including:
               a.   Storm windows;
               b.   Insulation;
               c.   Painters;
               d.   Roofers; and
               e.   Awnings.
            7.   Vendors of service or merchandise;
            8.   Hawkers; and
            9.   Solicitors.
         (b)   All of the above persons are included unless specifically
employed by local wholesale or retail merchants.
      (3)   Application. Any person, partnership, corporation, or other entity
who regularly services, delivers, buys, or sells goods and services to retail,
wholesale, or other permanent businesses in the city shall not constitute a
transient-itinerant business, but rather shall be subject to the provisions and
requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any transient-itinerant
business or representative thereof to engage in any activity in the city
without the representatives thereof having first obtained a permit to do so as
provided herein and having otherwise complied with the terms and provisions of
this section.
      (5)   Issuance of permit, duration, and identification.
         (a)   Each and every representative of a transient-itinerant business
desiring to engage in business within the city shall first make an application
in writing to the Director of Finance through the Finance Office provided by
the city, before the applicant shall be authorized to do business. Such
application shall state the name, permanent address, and telephone number of
the business, entity type, and federal identification number of the business,
the name, address, telephone number, Social Security number, and other personal
data of the business representative to be engaging in activity in the city and
the type or nature of the goods or services to be provided.
         (b)   The Director of Finance, upon a receipt of a completed
application and payment of the license fee, shall issue a permit to the
representative of the business. The permittee shall have his or her permit in
his or her immediate possession at all times when engaging in business in the
city, and shall display it upon demand to an official of the city.
      (6)   Fees. Those subject to this division (D) relating to transient-
itinerant businesses shall pay to the city a fee of $100 prior to the issuance
of a permit and prior to engaging in business in the city. The fee shall be
payable in advance and valid for the remainder of the tax year (or fraction
thereof), which tax year is to be for the period commencing on July 1 and
ending on the last day in June of each year.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011; Ord. 2019-04, passed 3-
18-2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, net profits shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profits by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) below, and the denominator of which
is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profits by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) below.
   (B)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business entity
for compensation, and the denominator of which is the total compensation paid
or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the individual’s
service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sales, lease, or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory, or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the United
States government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease, or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease, or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require, in respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will fairly
represent the business entity’s business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of gross receipts.
   (E)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license fee shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city. The
license fee shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which the
compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears to
the total wages and compensation paid or payable. In order for the city to
verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s reported percentages under this division
(E), the taxpayer shall maintain adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations, and all other entities where income
is “passed through” to the owners are subject to this chapter. The occupational
license fee imposed in this chapter is assessed against income before it is
“passed through” these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolved, ceases to operate, or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal, or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license fee for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license fee shall be computed for the purposes of
this chapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by the
federal government, and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Prior Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.05 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license fee
calculated under §
110.03 of this chapter. Amounts withheld shall be paid to the city in
accordance with this section.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold fees under this section
shall for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make a return and report to the city, and pay to the city, the fees
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any taxpayer whose gross
payroll exceeds $150,000 per three-month quarter shall file returns on a
monthly basis and shall pay to the city the tax liability due hereunder on a
monthly basis for receipt on or before the fifteenth day of each month rather
than on a quarterly basis.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this chapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withheld under
this chapter. If the employer withholds, but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city. If the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold fees under this chapter
shall annually on or before February 28 of each year complete and file on a
form furnished or approved by the city a reconciliation of the occupational
license fee withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements, or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city, shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license fee deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the fees required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer, or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any fee required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity, and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the fee becomes or became
obligated. No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
division (H) unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account
for, or pay over the fee imposed by this chapter at the time that the fees
imposed by this chapter become or became due.
   (I)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) above, every employee receiving
compensation in the city subject to the fee imposed under §
110.03 of this chapter shall be personally liable for any amount due. In all
cases where the employer does not withhold the fee levied under this chapter
from the employee, such employee or employees shall be responsible for filing
with the city each quarter in the same manner as if they were the employer.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011; Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-
5-2012)
§ 110.06 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
filed by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be filed by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income tax
return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing its
occupational license fee return with the city. Whenever, in the opinion of the
city, it is necessary to examine the federal income tax return of any business
entity in order to audit the return, the city may compel the business entity to
produce for inspection a copy of any statements and schedules in support
thereof that have not been previously filed. The city may also require copies
of reports of adjustments made by the federal government.
   (C)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license fee governed
by the provisions of this chapter shall keep records, render under oath
statements, make returns, and comply with rules as the city from time to time
may prescribe. Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice serviced to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the fees owed by the business entity pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid fees payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license fee return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.07 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license fee, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its fee.
   (B)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall pay,
as part of the fee, an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the fee
shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the fee
was due until the return is actually filed and the fee paid to the city. A
fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.08 PAYMENT OF ESTIMATED FEE QUARTERLY.
   (A)   Every business entity, other than a sole proprietorship, subject to
this chapter, shall make quarterly estimated fee payments on or before the
fifteenth day of the fourth, sixth, ninth, and twelfth month of each taxable
year if the fees due for the taxable year exceeds $5,000.
   (B)   The quarterly estimated fee payments required under division (A) above
shall be based on the lesser of:
      (1)   Twenty-two and one-half percent of the current taxable year fee
liability;
      (2)   Twenty-five percent of the preceding full year taxable year fee
liability; or
      (3)   Twenty-five percent of the average fee liability for the three
preceding full year taxable years’ fee liabilities if the fee liability for any
of the three preceding full taxable years exceeded $20,000.
   (C)   (1)   Any business entity that fails to submit the minimum quarterly
payment required under division (B) above by the due date for the quarterly
payment shall pay an amount equal to 12% per annum simple interest on the
amount of the quarterly payment required under division (B) above from the
earlier of:
         (a)   The due date for the quarterly payment until the time when the
aggregate quarterly payments submitted for the taxable year equal the minimum
aggregate payments due under division (B) above; or
         (b)   The due date of the annual return.
      (2)   A fraction of the month is considered an entire month.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any business
entity’s first full or partial taxable year of doing business in the city or
any first taxable year in which a business entity’s fee liability exceeds
$5,000.
   (E)   At the election of the business entity, any installment of the
estimated fees may be paid prior to the date prescribed for its payment.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.09 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of fees due pursuant to this
chapter, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the extent of
overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is received by
the city from the employer within two years from the date the overpayment was
made.
   (B)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities performed
outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose employer has
withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license fee on the
compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may file
for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing of a
return. The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
   (C)   Where there has been an overpayment of net profits fees upon business
levied pursuant to this chapter, a refund or credit shall be made to any person
or business entity to the extent of overpayment only upon a written application
for refund or credit to the city within two years from the date that
overpayment was made.
   (D)   In the case where the fee computed under the provisions of this
chapter is less than the amount which has been declared and paid as estimated
fee for the same taxable year, a refund or credit, if a credit is requested,
shall be made upon the filing of a return.
   (E)   (1)   Overpayment resulting from the payment of estimated fee in
excess of the amount determined to be due upon the filing of a return for the
same taxable year may be credited against the amount of estimated fee
determined to be due on any declaration filed for the next succeeding taxable
year or for any deficiency or nonpayment of fees for any previous taxable year.
      (2)   No refund shall be made of any estimated fee paid unless a complete
return is filed as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.09) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.10 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of fee computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional fee
shall be assessed and a notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by
the city within five years from the date the return was filed, except as
otherwise provided in this division (A).
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional fees may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional fees may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional fees relating
directly to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal
audit, the additional fee may be assessed before the expiration of times
provided in this division (A), or six months from the date the city receives
the final determination of the federal audit from the business entity,
whichever is later.
      (2)   The times provided in this division (A) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this
division (A), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing
the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted
for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last day
prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional fee within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 110.10) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.11 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the fee levied by this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any fee collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may
be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for the
filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is the
later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.09 has been extended by an agreement between the business entity and the
city, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be extended
accordingly; and
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division or six
months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B) and division (A) above, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day.
   (C)   The authority to refund or credit overpayment of fees collected
pursuant to this chapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.11) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.12 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall intentionally
and without authorization inspect or divulge any information acquired by him or
her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding the tax schedules,
returns, or reports required to be filed with the tax district or other proper
officer, of any information produced by a hearing or investigation, insofar as
the information may have to do with the affairs of the person’s business. This
prohibition does not extend to information required in prosecutions for making
false reports or returns for taxation, or any other infraction of the tax laws,
or in any way made a matter of public record, nor does it preclude furnishing
any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized agent with information
respecting his or her own return. Further, this prohibition does not preclude
any employee of the tax district from testifying in any court, or from
introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the tax district, in an
action for violation of a tax district tax law or in any action challenging a
tax district’s tax laws.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the Commissioner of Revenue
of the Commonwealth or his or her duly authorized agent all such information
and rights to inspect any of the books and records of the city of the
Commissioner of Revenue of the Commonwealth grants to the city the reciprocal
right to obtain information from the files and records of the state’s
Department of Revenue and maintains the privileged character of the information
so furnished. Provided, further, that the city may publish statistics based on
such information in such a manner as not to reveal data respecting net profits
or compensation of any person.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity,
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 110.12) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011) Penalty, see 110.99
§ 110.13 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE FEE.
   All money derived from the license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city’s General
Revenue Fund.
(Prior Code, § 110.13) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement. The Director of Finance is hereby charged with the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and he or she is hereby empowered
to prescribe, adopt, promulgate, and enforce rules and regulations relating to
any matter or thing pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, provisions for the
reexamination and correction of returns as to which an overpayment or
underpayment is claimed or found to have been made; and the rules and
regulations promulgated by him or her shall be binding upon the licensee and
the employers; provided, however, all such rules, regulations, and decisions
shall be subject to the consent and approval of the Mayor.
   (B)   Audit. The Director of Finance or any agent or employee designated in
writing by him or her is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, and
records of any employer or supposed employer or of any licensee or supposed
licensee in order to determine the accuracy of any return made, or if no return
was made, to ascertain the amount of license fee imposed by the terms of this
chapter. Each such employer or supposed employer or licensee or supposed
licensee is hereby directed and required to give to the Director of Finance or
his or her duly authorized agent or employee the means, facilities, and
opportunity for such examination and investigation as are hereby authorized.
Upon dispute, the Director of Finance may enforce this right by application to
the appropriate court having jurisdiction over these matters.
(Prior Code, § 110.14) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.15 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   In the event any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity
fails or refuses for any reason to pay when due any fee imposed or required by
this chapter, the city may upon application to a court of competent
jurisdiction, seek injunctive or other extraordinary relief to require the
person, firm, corporation, partnership, or other entity to cease and desist
from operating or conducting in any respect within the corporate limits of the
city the business enterprise for which the fee is due, until such time as the
fee, plus appropriate penalties and interest, have been paid in full. Should
the city be required to pursue such extraordinary relief, the person, firm,
corporation, partnership, or other entity liable for payment of the fee shall
be liable for all court costs incurred by the city, including reasonable
attorney’s fees.
(Prior Code, § 110.15) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A business entity subject to a fee on gross receipts may be
subject to a penalty equal to 5% of the fee due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof if the business entity:
         (a)   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing or as extended by the city; or
         (b)   Fails to pay the fee computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
      (2)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (A) shall not
exceed 25% of the total fees due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
   (B)   Every employer who fails to file a return or pay the fee on or before
the time prescribed by this chapter may be subject to a penalty in the amount
equal to 5% of the fee due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The
total penalty levied pursuant to this division (B) shall not exceed 25% of the
total fees due; however, the penalty shall not be less than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer shall pay, as part of the fee, an amount equal to 12% per
annum simple interest on the fees shown due, but not previously paid, from the
time the fee was due until the fee is paid to the city. A fraction of a month
is counted as an entire month.
   (D)   Every fee imposed by this chapter, and all increases, interest, and
penalties thereon, shall become, from the time the fee is due and payable, a
personal debt of the taxpayer to the city.
   (E)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational fees due under
this chapter and any fees, penalties, and interest as provided in divisions
(A), (B), (C), and (D) above by civil action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. To the extent authorized by law, the city shall be entitled to
recover all court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by it in
enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this section, any business
entity or employer who willfully fails to make a return or willfully makes a
false return, or who willfully fails to pay fees owing or collected, with the
intent to evade payment of the fee or amount collected, or any part thereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (G)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels, or
advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with, any
matter arising under this chapter of a return, affidavit, claim, or other
document, which is fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or
not the falsity or fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person
authorized or required to present the return, affidavit, claim, or document
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   A return for the purpose of this section shall mean and include any
return, declaration, or form prescribed by the city and required to be filed
with the city by the provisions of this chapter, or by the rules of the city or
by written request for information to the business entity by the city.
   (I)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11 by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer information without
authorization shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not longer
than six months, or both.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.11 by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be fined not more
than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Prior Code, § 110.99) (Ord. 2011-01, passed 1-10-2011)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   Charitable solicitations at the four-way stop
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. 
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
         (b)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
      (2)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.
A person who is a SOLICITOR is not a peddler.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A) Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B) The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council. The fee for a peddler’s license, excluding
farm produce, shall be $6 per day or $40 per year.
   (C) No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. passed 6-16-1986) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)    (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above or the person identified in division (A)(3), has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A) Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B) Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection with
the business being conducted under the license;
   (C) Any violation of this chapter;
   (D) Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the licensee
of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E) Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a way
as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of
the public.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed
Peddler” or “Licensed Solicitor”, the expiration date of the license, and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS AT THE FOUR-WAY STOP.
   Persons desiring to conduct charitable solicitations at the intersection of
U.S. Highways 41 and 62 shall comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   Individuals may not conduct charitable solicitations at the
intersection of U.S. Highways 41 and 62 or any other intersection within the
city.
   (B)   Individuals may not conduct bucket brigades at the intersection of
U.S. Highways 41 and 62 or any other intersection within the city.
   (C)   Individuals may not post signs of any kind at the intersection of U.S.
Highways 41 and 62 or any other intersection within the city.
(Prior Code, § 111.09) (Ord. passed 2-4-1985; Ord. 2019-01, passed 2-11-2019)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 111.99)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010) (Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1,000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020) (Prior Code, § 112.02)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles effected or made by him or her. The register shall show the dates
of all loans or purchases, and the names of all persons who have left any
property on deposit as collateral security or as a delivery or sale. Opposite
the names and dates shall be written in plain hand a full description of all
property purchased or received on deposit as collateral security, the time when
the loan falls due, the amount of purchase money, the amount loaned, and the
interest charged. The register shall at all times be open to the inspection of
any police officer of the city when in the discharge of his or her official
duty.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070) (Prior Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not make any
charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail, addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) (Prior Code, § 112.04) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker, as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) (Prior Code, § 112.05) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) (Prior Code, § 112.06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) (Prior Code, § 112.07) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100) (Prior Code, § 112.08)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3)) (Prior Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE PREMIUM TAX
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license
   
113.02   Changing license fee or rate of tax
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.04   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.05   Due date; breakdown of collections
   
113.06   Delinquent payment; interest
   
113.07   Collection fee to be retained by insurance company
   
113.08   Accounting and reporting procedure
   
113.09   Examination of books and records
   
113.10   Annual report setting amount of collected premiums
   
113.11   Copies of regulations and amendments to be filed
   
113.12   Exemptions
   
113.13   Request for refund
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE.
   Pursuant to KRS 91A.080, there shall be, and hereby is, imposed on each
insurance company a license fee or tax for the privilege of engaging in the
business of insurance within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.02 CHANGING LICENSE FEE OR RATE OF TAX.
   The City Council may change the license fee or rate of tax hereunder to be
effective January 1 or July 1 of each year on a prospective basis only.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   (A)   The license fee or tax upon an insurance company with respect to life
insurance policies shall be based upon the first year’s premium, and shall be
applied to the amount of such premium actually collected within each calendar
quarter upon the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits of the
city.
   (B)   The license fee or tax rate levied upon companies which issue life
insurance policies, as provided in division (A) above, is 10% of the first
year’s premiums.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.04 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any license fee or tax imposed hereunder upon any insurance company
with respect to any policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be based
upon the premiums actually collected by such company within each calendar
quarter on risk located within the corporate limits of the city on those
classes of business which such company is authorized to transact, less all
premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax imposed
upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act.
   (B)   The license fee or tax imposed upon each insurance company which
issues any insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy is and shall
be as follows:
      (1)   Casualty: 10%;
      (2)   Automobile: 10%;
      (3)   Inland marine: 10%;
      (4)   Fire and perils: 10%; and
      (5)   Health: 10%.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.05 DUE DATE; BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   The license fee or taxes provided for in this chapter shall be due 30
days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   (B)   Annually, by March 31, each insurer shall provide the city with a
breakdown of all collections in the preceding calendar year for the following
categories of insurance:
      (1)   Casualty;
      (2)   Automobile;
      (3)   Inland marine;
      (4)   Fire and allied perils;
      (5)   Health; and
      (6)   Life.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.06 DELINQUENT PAYMENT; INTEREST.
   Any license fee or tax not paid on or before the due date shall bear
interest at the tax interest rate as defined in KRS 131.010(6) from the date
due until paid. Such interest payable to the city is separate from any fee that
may be levied pursuant to KRS 91A.080(6).
(Prior Code, § 113.06) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.07 COLLECTION FEE TO BE RETAINED BY INSURANCE COMPANY.
   The Department of Insurance shall, pursuant to regulation, provide for a
reasonable collection fee to be retained by the insurance company, or its
agent, as compensation for collecting such tax; provided, however, that the
collection fee shall not be more than 15% of the fee or tax collected and
remitted to the city or 2% of the premiums subject to the tax, whichever is
less. To facilitate computation, collection, and remittance of the fee or tax
and collection fee provided for herein, the fees or taxes set forth in this
chapter, together with the collection fee provided herein, may be rounded off
to the nearest dollar amount.
(Prior Code, § 113.07) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.08 ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING PROCEDURE.
   Appropriate accounting and reporting procedure for the collection and
reporting of the fees or taxes and the collection fee herein provided shall be
determined by regulations promulgated by the Department of Insurance.
(Prior Code, § 113.08) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.09 EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   From time to time, the City Council may request the assistance of the
Department of Insurance in examining or causing to be examined the books and
records of insurance companies for the purpose of determining compliance
herewith.
(Prior Code, § 113.09) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.10 ANNUAL REPORT SETTING AMOUNT OF COLLECTED PREMIUMS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fee imposed by this section
shall, on or before March 31 of each calendar year, furnish the city, as a
sworn statement, an annual report therein setting forth the amount of premiums
collected from policies insuring risk within the city for the following types
of insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
    (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Prior Code, § 113.10) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.11 COPIES OF REGULATIONS AND AMENDMENTS TO BE FILED.
    The City Clerk shall file a copy of this chapter and amendments hereto
which impose any such license fee or tax with the Commissioner of Insurance at
least 60 days prior to the effective date. The Commissioner of Insurance shall
promptly notify each insurance company engaged in the business of insurance in
the Commonwealth that the city has elected to impose this license fee or tax
and the current amount of this license fee or rate of tax.
(Prior Code, § 113.11) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   No license fee or tax imposed hereunder shall apply to premiums received on
policies of group health insurance provided for state employees under KRS
18A.225(2) and KRS 18A.228.
(Prior Code, § 113.12) (Ord. passed 8-6-1990; Ord. 2005-02, passed 3-28-2005)
§ 113.13 REQUEST FOR REFUND.
   (A)   No insurance company shall be entitled to a refund for any tax
erroneously paid pursuant to the terms of this section unless the request for
refund be made to the city in writing within 18 months of the end of the
calendar year on which said tax is paid. Additionally, said request shall be
accompanied by documentation supporting said request which shall include at
least the following:
      (1)   The name and address of each and every insured upon whom tax was
erroneously paid;
      (2)   The type of risk being insured against;
      (3)   The amount of the insurance premium charged by the company; and
      (4)   Such other information as may be reasonably requested by the city.
   (B)   Further, unless request for refund be made as set forth above, no set
off may be made by the company for erroneously paid premiums against future
taxes owed.
(Prior Code, § 113.13) (Ord. 2007-02, passed 6-4-2007)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE PREMIUM TAX
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Review of request for increase in basic cable rates
   
114.03   Cable operator information
   
114.04   Automatic rate adjustments
   
114.05   Enforcement
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC CABLE RATES. The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic
service tier and the associated equipment.
   BASIC SERVICE TIER. A separately available tier to which subscription is
required for access to any other tier of service, including as a minimum, but
not limited to, all must-carry signals, all PEG channels, and all domestic
signals other than superstations.
   BENCHMARK. Per channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
   CABLE ACT OF 1992. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992, being 47 U.S.C. §§ 521-555.
   CABLE OPERATOR. Any person or group of persons:
      (1)   Who provide cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable
system; or
      (2)   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through an
arrangement, the management and operation of such a cable system.
   CHANNEL. A unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel number
or similar designation.
   COST OF SERVICE SHOWING. A filing in which the cable operator attempts to
show that the benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the
cable operator to fully recover the costs of providing the basic service tier
and to continue to attract capital.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES. The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic service tier, including charges for associated equipment, at the time
the city notifies the cable operator of the city’s qualification and intent to
regulate basic cable rates.
   MUST-CARRY SIGNAL. The signal of any local broadcast station (except
superstations) which is required to be carried on the basic service tier.
   PEG CHANNEL. The channel capacity designated for public, educational, or
governmental use, and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel
capacity.
   PRICE CAP. The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable
rates regulated by the city, based on a formula using the GNP fixed weight
price index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and
changes in overall inflation.
   REASONABLE RATE STANDARD. A per channel rate that is at, or below, the
benchmark or price cap level.
   SUPERSTATION. Any non-local broadcast signal secondarily transmitted by
satellite.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. 94-1, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 114.02 REVIEW OF REQUEST FOR INCREASE IN BASIC CABLE RATES.
   (A)   Notice. A cable operator in the city who wishes to increase the rates
for the basic service tier or associated equipment shall file a request with
the city and notify all subscribers at least 30 days before the cable operator
desires the increase to take effect. This notice may not be given more often
than annually and not until at least one year after the determination of the
initial basic cable rates.
   (B)   Expedited determination and public hearing.
      (1)   If the City Council is able to expeditiously determine that the
cable operator’s rate increase request for basic cable service is within the
FCC’s reasonable rate standard, as determined by the applicable price cap, the
City Council shall:
         (a)   Hold a public hearing at which interested persons may express
their views; and
         (b)   Act to approve the rate increase within 30 days from the date
the cable operator filed its request with the city.
      (2)   If the city takes no action within 30 days from the date the cable
operator filed its request with the city, the proposed rates will go into
effect.
   (C)   Extended review period.
      (1)   If the City Council is unable to determine whether the rate
increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard based on the material
before it, or if the cable operator submits a cost-of-service showing, the City
Council shall, by adoption of a formal resolution, invoke the following
additional periods of time, as applicable, to make a final determination:
         (a)   Ninety days if the City Council needs more time to ensure that
the requested increase is within the FCC’s reasonable rate standard as
determined by the applicable price cap; and
         (b)   One hundred and fifty days if the cable operator has submitted a
cost-of-service showing peeking to justify a rate increase above the applicable
price cap.
      (2)   The proposed rate increase is tolled during the extended period.
      (3)   If the City Council has not made a decision within the 90- or 150-
day period, the City Council shall issue a brief written order at the end of
the period requesting the cable operator to keep accurate account of all
amounts received by reason of the proposed rate increase and on whose behalf
the amounts are paid.
   (D)   Public hearing. During the extended review period and before taking
action on the requested rate increase, the City Council shall hold at least one
public hearing at which interested persons may express their views and record
objections.
   (E)   Objections. An interested person who wishes to make an objection to
the proposed rate increase may request the City Clerk to record the objection
during the public hearing or may submit the objection in writing anytime before
the decision resolution is adopted. In order for any objection to be made part
of the record, the objector must provide the City Clerk with the objector’s
name and address.
   (F)   Delayed determination. If the City Council is unable to make a final
determination concerning a requested rate increase within the extended time
period, the cable operator may put the increase into effect, subject to
subsequent refund if the City Council later issues a decision disapproving any
portion of the increase.
   (G)   Price cap analysis. If a cable operator presents its request for a
rate increase as being in compliance with the FCC’s price cap, the City Council
shall review the rate using the price cap analysis in accordance with standard
form authorized by the FCC. Based on the City Council’s findings, the basic
cable rates shall be established as follows.
      (1)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase is within the price cap
established by the FCC, the proposed rates shall become the new basic cable
rates.
      (2)   If the proposed basic cable rate increase exceeds the price cap
established by the FCC, the City Council shall disapprove the proposed rate
increase and order an increase that is in compliance with the price cap.
   (H)   Cost-of-service showings. If a cable operator submits a cost-of-
service showing in an attempt to justify a rate increase above the price cap,
the City Council will review the submission pursuant the FCC standards for
cost-of-service review. The City Council may approve a rate increase above the
price cap if the cable operator makes the necessary showing; however, a cost-
of-service determination resulting in a rate below the price cap or below the
cable operator’s then current rate will prescribe the cable operator’s new
rate.
   (I)   Decision. The City Council’s decision concerning the requested rate
increase shall be adopted by formal resolution. If a rate increase proposed by
a cable operator is disapproved in whole or in part, or if objections were made
by other parties to the proposed rate increase, the resolution must state the
reasons for the decision. Objections may be made at the public hearing by a
person requesting the City Clerk to record the objection or may be submitted in
writing at anytime before the decision resolution is adopted.
   (J)   Refunds.
      (1)   The City Council may order refunds of subscribers’ rate payments
with interest if:
         (a)   The City Council was unable to make a decision within the
extended time period as described in division (C) above;
         (b)   The cable operator implemented the rate increase at the end of
the extended review period; and
         (c)   The City Council determines that the rate increase as submitted
exceeds the applicable price cap or that the cable operator failed to justify
the rate increase by a cost-of-service showing and the City Council disapproves
any portion of the rate increase.
      (2)   The method for paying any refund and the interest rate will be in
accordance with FCC regulations as directed in the City Council’s decision
resolution.
   (K)   Appeal. The City Council’s decision concerning rates for the basic
service tier or associated equipment may be appealed to the FCC in accordance
with applicable federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. 94-1, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 114.03 CABLE OPERATOR INFORMATION.
   (A)   City may require.
      (1)   In those cases when the cable operator has submitted initial rates
or proposed an increase that exceeds the reasonable rate standard, the City
Council may require the cable operator to produce information in addition to
that submitted, including proprietary information, if needed to make a rate
determination. In these cases, a cable operator may request the information be
kept confidential in accordance with this section.
      (2)   In cases where initial or proposed rates comply with the reasonable
rate standard, the City Council may request additional information only in
order to document that the cable operator’s rates are in accord with the
standard.
   (B)   Request for confidentiality.
      (1)   A cable operator submitting information to the City Council may
request in writing that the information not be made routinely available for
public inspection. A copy of the request shall be attached to and cover all of
the information and all copies of the information to which it applies.
      (2)   If feasible, the information to which the request applies shall be
physically separated from any information to which the request does not apply.
If this is not feasible, the portion of the information to which the request
applies shall be identified.
      (3)   Each request shall contain a statement of the reasons for
withholding inspection and a statement of the facts upon which those reasons
are based.
      (4)   Casual request which do not comply with the requirements of this
division (B) shall not be considered.
   (C)   City Council action. Requests which comply with the requirements of
division (B) above will be acted upon by the City Council. The City Council
will grant the request if the cable operator presents, by a preponderance of
the evidence, a case for nondisclosure consistent with applicable federal
regulations. If the request is granted, the ruling will be placed in a public
file in lieu of the information withheld from public inspection. If the request
does not present a case for nondisclosure and the City Council denies the
request, the City Council shall take one of the following actions:
      (1)   If the information has been submitted voluntarily without any
direction from the city, the cable operator may request that the city return
the information without considering it. Ordinarily, the city will comply with
this request. Only in unusual instance that the public interest so requires,
will the information be made available for public inspection; or
      (2)   If the information was required to be submitted by the Council, the
information will be made available for public inspection.
   (D)   Appeal. If the City Council denies the request for confidentiality,
the cable operator may seek review of that decision from the FCC within five
working days of the City Council’s decision, and the release of the information
will be stayed pending review.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. 94-1, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 114.04 AUTOMATIC RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Annual inflation adjustment. In accordance with FCC regulations, the
cable operator may adjust its capped base per channel rate for the basic
service tier annually by the final GNP-PI index.
   (B)   Other external costs.
      (1)   The FCC regulations also allow the cable operator to increase its
rate for the basic service tier automatically to reflect certain external cost
factors to the extent that the increase in cost of those factors exceeds GNP-
PI. These factors include retransmission consent fees, programming costs, state
and local taxes applicable to the provision of cable television service, and
cost of franchise requirements. The total cost of increase in a franchise fee
may be automatically added to the base per channel rate, without regard to its
relation to the GNP-PI.
      (2)   For all categories of external costs other than retransmission
consent and franchise fees, the starting date for measuring changes in external
costs for which the basic service channel rate may be adjusted will be the date
on which the basic service tier becomes subject to regulation or February 28,
1994, whichever occurs first. The permitted per channel charge may not be
adjusted for costs of retransmission consent fees or changes in those fees
incurred before October 6, 1994.
   (C)   Notification and review. The cable operator shall notify the city at
least 30 days in advance of a rate increase based on automatic adjustment
items. The city shall review the increase to determine whether the item or
items qualify as automatic adjustments. If the city makes no objection within
30 days of receiving notice of the increase, the increase may go into effect.
(Prior Code, § 114.05) (Ord. 94-1, passed 1-10-1994)
§ 114.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Refunds. The city may order the cable operator to refund to
subscribers a portion of previously paid rates under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   A portion of the previously paid rates have been determined to be
in excess of the permitted tier charge or above the actual cost of equipment;
or
      (2)   The cable operator has failed to comply with a valid rate order
issued by the city.
   (B)   Fines. If the cable operator fails to comply with a rate decision or
refund order, the cable operator shall be subject to a fine of $500 for each
day the cable operator fails to comply.
(Prior Code, § 114.06) (Ord. 94-1, passed 1-10-1994)
CHAPTER 115: COAL MINING
Section
   
115.01   Strip mining
   
115.02   Coal preparation facilities
 
   
115.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Hauling coal, see §
94.03
§ 115.01 STRIP MINING.
   From and after June 1, 1972, it shall be unlawful to mine coal in the city
by the strip, or open cut, method of mining.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02 COAL PREPARATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, business, or corporation to build
or cause to be built, or to operate any building or structure for the purpose
of crushing, washing, or preparing coal within the city limits.
   (B)   No person, business, or corporation shall be granted a permit or
license to build or operate any business as set forth in division (A) above
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. passed 1-4-1982) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of §
115.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000 or shall be confined in the county jail for not less
than 30 days nor more than 90 days, or both. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, business, or corporation in violation of §
115.02 shall be fined not less than $25 per day nor more than $100 per day.
(Prior Code, § 115.99) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 1-4-1982)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS
Section
Curfew for Minors
   
130.01   Title
   
130.02   Findings
   
130.03   Purpose
   
130.04   Definitions
   
130.05   Curfew for minors
   
130.06   Exceptions
   
130.07   Enforcement
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW FOR MINORS
§ 130.01 TITLE.
   The subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Nortonville
Curfew for Minors Subchapter”.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 96-1, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 130.02 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   The government of this city has a duty to protect, preserve, and
promote the safety, security, and general welfare of its citizens, including
their property and the safety and security of public property;
   (B)   The government of this city feels it has a special duty and obligation
to protect, preserve, and promote the safety, welfare, and morals of those
under the age of 18 years of age and that parents, legal guardians, and other
adults similarly situated bear a responsibility for the safety and general
morals and protection of those minors in their care; and
   (C)   The government of this city perceives that the obligation to provide
for the safety, general morals, and protection of minors within the city limits
has been neglected.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 96-1, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 130.03 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide a method to assure that
parents, legal guardians, or other adults similarly situated, oversee and
provide for the safety, general morals, and protection of those minors in their
care.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) (Ord. 96-1, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 130.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOW. To either permit or neglect to prevent. This requires actual or
constructive knowledge on the part of the parent or guardian. That is, the
parent or guardian must actively know about the child violating this subchapter
or the circumstance must be such that a reasonably prudent parent or guardian
should have known the child was violating this subchapter.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18, or anyone age 17 or under, who has
not been emancipated by marriage.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
      (1)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian;
      (3)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; or
      (4)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY, BUILDING, PLACE, STREET, OR HIGHWAY. Any place of business
or entertainment which solicits and/or invites general use by the public; any
property owned by any local, state, or federal governmental agency or body,
including, but not limited to, parks, parking lots, grounds or buildings; any
place of worship or religion, including the buildings, grounds, and parking
lots; any street, highway, alley, or other thoroughfare open to use by the
general public as shown on the most recent plat of the city. This definition
applies only to the above as contained within the city limits.
   REMAIN. To stay behind, tarry, or to stay unnecessarily upon any public
assembly, building, place, street, or highway.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) (Ord. 96-1, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 130.05 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor, as defined in §
130.04, to be or to remain upon any public assembly, building, place, street,
or highway within the city at night during the following periods.
 
Monday    After 11:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m.
Tuesday   After 11:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m.
Wednesday After 11:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m.
Thursday  After 11:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m.
Friday    After 12:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m.
Saturday  After 12:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m.
Sunday    After 11:00 p.m. and before 6:00 a.m.
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian having legal custody
of a minor to allow such minor to be or to remain upon a building, place,
public assembly, street, or highway in the city under circumstances not
constituting an exception as listed under §
130.06.
(Prior Code, § 130.05) (Ord. 96-1, passed 2-5-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   In the following exceptional cases, a minor upon any public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway in the city during the hours provided in §
130.05 shall not be considered in violation of this subchapter:
   (A)   When the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent or guardian of
such minor;
   (C)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly, provided that written notice signed by the minor and
countersigned by a parent, as defined in §
130.04, is in the possession of such minor specifying when, where, and in what
manner said minor will be exercising such First Amendment rights;
   (D)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor who has not
communicated an objection to the Police Department or a police officer;
   (E)   When returning home, by a direct route from, and within one hour of
the termination of a school activity, or any activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, provided that justification indicating the place and
time of termination of said event can be given to an investigating officer of
the Police Department;
   (F)   When engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the state
authorize a person under 18 years of age to perform; and/or
   (G)   When the minor is, with the consent from parent or guardian, in a
motor vehicle with a lawfully licensed driver.
(Prior Code, § 130.06) (Ord. 96-1, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 130.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any police officer of the city upon finding or being notified of any
minor upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway who is
believed to be in violation of this subchapter may stop and question such minor
and request information as to his or her name, age, and the name and address of
his or her parent, guardian, or person having legal custody.
   (B)   If a police officer determines or has reasonable cause to believe that
a curfew violation has occurred, the officer may obtain from the minor the
information necessary to contact the parents or guardians to pick the minor up
or direct the minor to proceed immediately to his or her home.
(Prior Code, § 130.07) (Ord. 96-1, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   For the first and second offense(s), any minor apprehended for
violating §
130.05 shall be taken into custody by the Police Department and the parent(s),
as defined in §
130.04, shall be contacted and instructed to pick up said minor. A warning
citation will be issued to said parent.
      (2)   For any subsequent offense, any minor apprehended for violating §
130.05 shall be taken into custody by the Police Department and the parent(s)
shall be contacted and instructed to pick up the minor. Further, said parent(s)
shall be fined a sum not less than $25 nor more than $100 for each such
offense.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 96-1, passed 2-5-1996)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   MOBILE HOMES
      
154.   WELLHEAD PROTECTION CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code and Standards of Safety;
enforcement agents
   
150.02   Application
   
150.03   Appeals
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE AND STANDARDS OF SAFETY;
ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code, as contained in 815 KAR 7; the Kentucky
Plumbing Code, as contained in 815 KAR 20; the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as
contained in 815 KAR 10, together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above
codes and any amendments thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the
City Clerk where they shall be available for public inspection during normal
business hours.
   (B)   The County Building Code Official shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent for the Kentucky Building Code.
   (C)   The County Building Code Official and all other designated officers,
agents, and employees of the city are hereby charged with the enforcement of
the provisions of the Standards of Safety.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 APPLICATION.
   The application of the State Building Code shall be extended to all single-
family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
(Prior Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the State Board of Housing, Buildings, and Construction unless and/
or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter 198B, is
established to hear such appeals.
(Prior Code, § 150.03)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties.
   (A)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
   (C)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990) (Prior Code, § 150.99)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Those portions of the County Flood Hazard Mitigation Plan that pertain to
the city are hereby adopted by reference, the same as if set out in full
herein.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Res. 2010-01, passed 11-1-2010)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Subdivision regulations adopted by reference
§ 152.01 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The “Land Subdivision Regulations of the City of Nortonville,
Kentucky”, passed August 1, 1977, and all subsequent legislation amendatory
thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated into this code of
ordinances as if set out in their entirety.
   (B)   Copies of the legislation adopted herein are available for public
inspection during normal business hours at the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. passed 8-1-1977; Ord. passed 11-5-1979; Ord.
passed 6-16-1986; Ord. 94-2, passed 2-7-1994)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
153.01   Definition
   
153.02   Restrictions on placement of mobile homes
   
153.03   Nonconforming uses
   
153.04   Storage of trailers
   
153.05   Trailer park regulations
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME or TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure constructed in such a
manner as to permit occupancy thereof as sleeping or living quarters or the
conduct of business, trade, or occupation or use as a selling or advertising
device, or use for storage or conveyance for tools, equipment, or machinery,
and that is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways
and streets, propelled or drawn by its own motor power.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. passed 4-3-1989; Ord. passed 1-6-1992)
§ 153.02 RESTRICTIONS ON PLACEMENT OF MOBILE HOMES.
   The placement or use of any mobile home or trailer as a dwelling unit or for
the conduct of any business, trade, or occupation or use as a selling or
advertising device, or use for storage or conveyance for tools, equipment, or
machinery on any lot other than a lot in a licensed or approved mobile home or
trailer park is prohibited except that:
   (A)   A mobile home or trailer may be placed and used on a lot other than a
lot in a licensed or approved mobile home or trailer park for a period not to
exceed one year, provided that the occupant of the mobile home or trailer
requires the mobile home or trailer for temporary residence while constructing
a permanent conforming dwelling. Anyone seeking to place or use a mobile home
or trailer for such purpose shall make a written request to the City Council,
including proof of intent and financial ability to construct a permanent
conforming dwelling. The City Council may authorize a permit for the mobile
home or trailer placement and use for up to a one-year period. The City Council
may revoke the permit with 30 days’ notice if Council determines that the
occupant of the mobile home or trailer does not intend to construct a permanent
conforming dwelling within the one-year period;
   (B)   A mobile home or trailer may be placed and used indefinitely, provided
that the trailer or mobile home is permanently affixed to the ground on a
permanent foundation. The trailer or mobile home is inspected by the Fire Chief
or his or her designated representative and is deemed suitable for placement on
a lot within the city;
   (C)   A mobile home or trailer will be placed on a lot not less than 50 feet
by 100 feet and must be on a sewage hook-up by itself;
   (D)   A permit will be required for the inspection of any mobile home or
trailer prior to receiving water and/or sewer service from the city. Cost of
such permit shall be established by the governing body;
   (E)   In the event a mobile home or trailer is relocated within one year of
the initial inspection, no new inspection shall be required; and
   (F)   There will be no mobile homes or trailers located on Main Street
within the city limits as of the date of this amendment. This shall extend from
Highway 62 through all of Main Street and U.S. 41 to New Salem Circle and
includes all thoroughfares and abutments.
(Prior Code, § 153.02) (Ord. passed 4-3-1989; Ord. passed 1-6-1992; Ord. 93-3,
passed 4-5-1993; Ord. 2007-03, passed 7-2-2007; Ord. 2010-01, passed 7-30-2010)
Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.03 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any trailer or mobile home located within the city limits on any lot other
than a lot in a licensed or approved mobile home or trailer park prior to April
15, 1989 shall be termed a nonconforming use, and the owner of such a
nonconforming use may continue the use of the property; however, should the
property owner sell his or her property, then the property shall cease to be
used for such nonconforming use. Any trailer or mobile home with the status of
a nonconforming use shall lose its nonconforming use status if the trailer or
mobile home is removed from the property for a period of 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 153.03) (Ord. passed 4-3-1989; Ord. passed 1-6-1992) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.04 STORAGE OF TRAILERS.
   Trailers or mobile homes used exclusively for the purpose of traveling or
camping and which do not exceed a width of eight feet and a length of 30 feet
may be stored in the rear yard of any lot.
(Prior Code, § 153.04) (Ord. passed 4-3-1989; Ord. passed 1-6-1992) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.05 TRAILER PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All trailer parks shall conform to all the applicable provisions of
KRS 219.310 through 219.991 and shall conform with all provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   All trailer parks shall be subject to the following regulations. In
applying for a building permit for a trailer park the applicant shall show at
least the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and location of trailer park;
      (3)   The dimensions and locations of all lot lines, roads, and
easements. Each mobile home lot shall be numbered;
      (4)   Contour lines to indicate slope and drainage;
      (5)   Location of all utilities: public and private water; sewage;
drainage; and electrical facilities and easements;
      (6)   Public areas such as visitor’s parking, recreational areas, and the
like, if such areas are proposed; and
      (7)   Large-scale plan or one typical mobile home lot showing mobile home
location, automobile parking space, and the like.
   (C)   All trailer parks shall conform with the following standards for
development.
      (1)   All trailer parks shall include lots for at least six mobile homes.
Mobile homes are not permitted on lots outside of approved trailer parks unless
specifically permitted by other provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Each mobile home shall have a lot of at least 2,500 square feet.
      (3)   All trailer parks shall front on a public street for at least 100
feet.
      (4)   No mobile home shall be located closer than 25 feet to another
mobile home.
      (5)   A weather-bound road at least 15 feet wide shall provide direct
access to each mobile home lot. The area occupied by the road shall not fulfill
part of the area requirements for any lot. All roads shall be designed to
enable mobile homes entering the trailer park to reverse direction without
having to back more than one mobile home length.
      (6)   One weather-bound automobile parking area shall be provided on
every mobile home lot.
      (7)   No accessory structure, including patios, shall be located within
five feet of any trailer lot line. The floor area shall not be greater than 100
square feet and the height shall be no greater than ten feet.
      (8)   Only porches, stairs, and other structures may be attached to a
trailer.
      (9)   All trailer parks shall conform with State Board of Health
regulations which prescribe standards for water supply, sewage disposal, and
other facilities. Each trailer park shall be adequately drained so that no
mobile home lot shall be subject to the collection of storm water.
(Prior Code, § 153.05) (Ord. passed 4-3-1989; Ord. passed 1-6-1992) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be in violation of any part of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500. Each day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 153.99) (Ord. passed 4-3-1989; Ord. passed 1-6-1992)
CHAPTER 154: WELLHEAD PROTECTION CODE
Section
   
154.01   Short title
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Substances regulated
   
154.05   Restrictions within the primary protection zone
   
154.06   Establishment of management zones
   
154.07   Restrictions within management zones
   
154.08   Exemptions
   
Appendix A:     Wellhead area protection zones
§ 154.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Wellhead Protection Code of
Nortonville”.
(Prior Code, § 154.01) (Ord. passed 2-17-1992)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is the protection of health, life, resources,
and property through the regulation of hazardous substance transport and
storage and related aspects of land use and development in the vicinity of any
well that supplies potable water to the city’s water system.
(Prior Code, § 154.02) (Ord. passed 2-17-1992)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AQUIFER. A geologic formation, group of formations, or part of a formation
that contains sufficient saturated, permeable material to yield significant
quantities of water to wells and springs.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A public water system that serves at least 15
service connections used by year-round residents or regularly serves at least
25 year-round residents.
   FACILITY. A building or buildings, appurtenant structures, and surrounding
land used by a single business, private entity, or governmental unit or sub-
unit at a single location or site.
   GROUND WATER. Water in a saturated zone or stratum beneath the surface of
land or water, whether or not it is flowing through known and definite
channels.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Those materials specified in §
154.04 of this chapter.
   MANAGEMENT ZONES. A zone or zones established to provide protection to the
area surrounding a well or well field from potential contaminate sources.
Management options may include limits on certain activities, more stringent
design and operating standards, strict monitoring of potential pollution
sources, promoting best management practices, and/or implementing education
programs. Multiple protection zones may be established for different management
strategies based on proximity to the well field.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCT. Fuels (gasoline, diesel fuel, kerosene, and mixtures of
these products), lubricating oils, motor oils, hydraulic fluids, and other
similar products.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is satisfactory for drinking, culinary, and
domestic purposes meeting current state and federal drinking water standards.
   PRIMARY CONTAINMENT. The first level of product-tight containment, that is,
the inside portion of that container which comes into immediate contact on its
inner surface with the hazardous material being contained.
   PRIMARY PROTECTION ZONE. An area extending not less than 200 feet radially
from any well supplying potable water to any community water system.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any utility (gas, water, sewer, electrical, telephone, cable
television, and the like) whether publicly owned or privately owned.
   SECONDARY CONTAINMENT. The level of product-tight containment external to
and separate from the primary containment. SECONDARY CONTAINMENT shall consist
of leak-proof trays under containers, floor curbing, or other containment
systems and shall be of adequate state-approved size and design to handle all
spills, leaks, overflows, specific design and selection of materials shall be
sufficient to preclude any substance loss. Containment systems shall be
sheltered so that the intrusion of precipitation is effectively prevented.
   STORAGE SYSTEM. Any one or combination of tanks, sumps, wet floors, waste
treatment facilities, pipes, vaults, or other portable or fixed containers
used, or designed to be used for, the storage of hazardous substances at a
facility.
   WELL. Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug,
jetted, or otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is to
conduct ground water from an aquifer or aquifer system to the surface by
pumping or natural flow, or to monitor the characteristics of ground water
within an aquifer system.
(Prior Code, § 154.03) (Ord. passed 2-17-1992)
§ 154.04 SUBSTANCES REGULATED.
   The materials regulated by this chapter shall consist of the following:
   (A)   Petroleum products as defined in §
154.03;
   (B)   Substances listed in 401 KAR 30, and the Federal Hazardous Waste List
(https://www.epa.gov/hw/defining-hazardous-waste-listed-characteristic-and-
mixed-radiological-wastes); and
   (C)   Substances other than those listed on the Federal Hazardous Waste List
that are determined by state or federal agencies to pose a significant threat
to any community water supply well or well field.
(Prior Code, § 154.04) (Ord. passed 2-17-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05 RESTRICTIONS WITHIN THE PRIMARY PROTECTION ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause or permit the discharge of a
hazardous substance (including herbicide and pesticide) to the soils, ground
water, or surface water within the primary protection zone. Any person knowing
or having evidence of a discharge shall report such information to the
appropriate water system personnel.
   (B)   New sanitary landfills are prohibited within the primary protection
zone.
   (C)   The use, handling, production, and storage of hazardous substances is
prohibited in the primary protection zone except as provided under §
154.08.
   (D)   Feedlots or other concentrated animal facilities are prohibited within
the primary protection zone.
   (E)   Wastewater treatment plants are prohibited within the primary
protection zone.
   (F)   Septic tanks are prohibited within the primary protection zone.
(Prior Code, § 154.05) (Ord. passed 2-17-1992)
§ 154.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF MANAGEMENT ZONES.
   (A)   Additional protection beyond the primary protection zone shall be
accomplished by the establishment of management zones. The first management
zone shall begin at a point or points not less than 200 feet radially from any
community water supply well and extend outward to a point or points as
determined by the city’s Wellhead Protection Area Planning Committee.
   (B)   Subsequent and additional management zones may be established whenever
it is determined that the wellhead protection area needs to be expanded to
provide adequate protection for the ground water within and/or adjacent to the
wellhead protection area.
   (C)   The Wellhead Protection Area Planning Committee, using acceptable
methods, shall determine the size, shape, and location of each management zone.
The boundaries of each management zone shall be proposed and submitted for
approval to City Council.
   (D)   The boundaries of management zone one shall begin at a point or points
along the outer perimeter of the primary protection zone and extend outward to
all points within and including the city limit boundaries. Furthermore, as the
city limit boundaries are extended or changed, the management zone one
boundaries shall be extended or changed in like manner and simultaneously.
   (E)   The boundaries of management zone two shall be an area that begins at
mile point 30.66 of the Pennyrile Parkway approximately one mile from water
supply well number three. The boundary line shall then proceed clockwise on a
line radially one mile distant from water well number three until such line
intersects with the power transmission line southeast of the city. The boundary
line shall then follow the same line as the power transmission line to U.S.
Highway 62, thence northeast in a straight line to the intersection of U.S.
Highway 41A and Russ Hill Road. The boundary line shall follow Russ Hill Road
and proceed to the Pennyrile Parkway. From this point the boundary line shall
follow the Pennyrile Parkway south to the point of beginning at mile point
30.66.
   (F)   All the above described area, with the exception of the areas within
the primary protection areas and management zone one, shall be identified as
management zone two. A public education program shall be initiated to inform
all residents, businesses, and property owners within or adjacent to management
zone two of the need for and methods of protection of ground water. If
additional management methods are necessary, the appropriate governing bodies
with jurisdiction over the area within the management zone two shall be
notified.
(Prior Code, § 154.06) (Ord. passed 2-17-1992)
§ 154.07 RESTRICTIONS WITHIN MANAGEMENT ZONES.
   (A)   Restrictions within each management zone shall be determined by a
Wellhead Protection Area Planning Committee. The Planning Committee or its
appointee shall conduct a survey of the well head area and identify the
potential sources of contamination therein. After assessing the local ground
water protection needs, the method or combination of management methods shall
be submitted for approval to the City Council.
   (B)   The restrictions, if any, within each management zone may be modified
periodically to provide additional protection or to prevent future ground water
contamination.
(Prior Code, § 154.07) (Ord. passed 2-17-1992)
§ 154.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following activities or uses are exempt from the provision of this
chapter:
   (A)   The transportation of any hazardous substance through the well field
protection area, provided the transporting vehicle is in transit;
   (B)   The use of herbicides and pesticides is prohibited within the primary
protection zone but is allowed within the management zones, provided best
management practices are used or it is determined that the use of such
herbicides and pesticides does not pose a serious threat to the ground water;
   (C)   The use of any hazardous substance solely as fuel in a vehicle fuel
tank or as lubricant in a vehicle;
   (D)   Fire, police, emergency medical services, emergency management center
facilities, or public utility transmission facilities;
   (E)   Retail sales establishments that store and handle hazardous substances
for resale in their original unopened containers;
   (F)   Consumer products limited to use at a facility solely for janitorial
or minor maintenance purposes;
   (G)   Consumer products located in the home which are used for personal,
family, or household purposes;
   (H)   The storage and use of hazardous substances as fuel or lubricant to
provide auxiliary power for emergency use to the well field, provided an
enclosed secondary containment system is provided for the hazardous substance;
and
   (I)   The use of water treatment chemicals connected with the operation of
the well.
(Prior Code, § 154.08) (Ord. passed 2-17-1992)
APPENDIX A: WELLHEAD AREA PROTECTION ZONES
      1.   Illinois Central Railroad
      2.   Highway 41A
      3.   Cemetery
      4.   Nortonville Lake
      5.   Lynn Walls Backhoe Service (fuel tanks)
      6.   Beauty shop
      7.   Smiths Grocery (fuel tanks)
      8.   Sewage lift station
      9.   Truck repair shop
      10.   Sewage lift station
      11.   Norton Coal Co.
      12.   Oil storage tanks
      13.   Oil wells
      14.   W.L. Davis Welding Shop
      15.   Hair Works Beauty Shop (old service station tanks)
      16.   Clarks Gulf Station
      17.   Lawn mower repair shop
      18.   Woodrow Haile (private garage)
      19.   Heating and air conditioner repair
      20.   Pennyrile Parkway
      21.   Wastewater lagoons
      22.   Lift station
      23.   Ceramic shop
      24.   Kentucky Peddlers Woodworking Shop
      25.   Bandy Funeral Home
      26.   Water Department maintenance shop
      27.   Carquest Auto Parts
      28.   L & N Railroad
      29.   Satterfield Garage
      30.   Pleasant Run Creek
      31.   Hardware store
      32.   Tyson Welding Shop
      33.   Lewis Equipment Repair Yard
      34.   Truck repair shop
      35.   Lewis Oil Company & Car Wash
      36.   Ideal Market
      37.   Lumber company and drug store
      38.   Highway 62
      39.   Auto parts
      40.   Ashland station
      41.   Pantry station
      42.   Fire Department
      43.   Jenco Coal Mine Equipment Repair
      44.   Oil storage tanks and loading point on Russ Hill Road
      45.   Auto repair shop on Russ Hill Road
(Prior Code, Ch. 15 App. A)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BOND ISSUES
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
V.   AGREEMENTS
      
VI.   STREET CLOSINGS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. No.   Date Passed  Description
Ord. -          2-21-1962      Annexing a tract located near the southwest
                               corner of the Salem Church Lot.
Ord. -          5-15-1991      Annexing territory adjacent to Nortonville.
Ord. -          8-7-1991       Annexing territory adjacent to Nortonville.
Ord. 2011-05  12-15-2011     Annexing approximately 44 acres east of the
                               city.
                              
 
TABLE II: BOND ISSUES
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed    Description
No.
Ord.  6-2-1975     Authorizing the borrowing of money for interim financing in anticipation
-                  of the city’s issuance of its Water Revenue Bonds of 1975.
                  
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord. -        10-4-1982      Authorizing a non-exclusive CATV franchise.
Ord. -        7-14-1986      Approving and accepting bid for non-exclusive CATV
                             franchise agreement.
Ord. 2016-02  5-2-2016       Granting franchise to Kentucky Utilities Company.
Ord. 2017-01  1-24-2017      Granting natural gas franchise.
Ord. 2020-06  9-14-2020      Renewing non-exclusive cable franchise agreement
                             with Mediacom Southeast LLC
                            
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord. -        8-19-1961      Adopting an official plat of Nortonville.
                            
 
TABLE V: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed  Description
Ord./    Date         Description
Res. No. Passed   
                      A joint and cooperative program for self-insurance,
Ord. 93-              insurance, and the investment of public funds as set
4        6-7-1993     forth in the Interlocal Agreement to establish the KMRMA.
                      The Mayor and the City Clerk are authorized and directed
                      to execute the agreement.
                      Reaffirming the agreement executed July 14, 1967,
Ord. 95-              establishing a Joint City-County Planning Unit and a
7        11-6-1995    Joint City-County Planning Commission and Boards of
                      Adjustment; and amending said agreement by adding the
                      City of White Plains, Kentucky.
Res.     5-6-2013     Interlocal cooperation agreement.
2013-01
Res.     5-6-2013     Lease agreement for the financing of a project.
2013-02
Res.     8-5-2013     Agreement with the Department for Local Government.
2013-04
Res.                  Agreement with the county to carry out inspection and
2013-06  8-5-2013     plan reviews in compliance with the state’s Residential
                      Code.
Res.     11-2-2015    Loan agreement with the state’s Rural Water Finance
2015-01               Corporation.
                     
 
TABLE VI: STREET CLOSINGS
   
 
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed    Description
No.
                   The following described streets or ways shall be closed:
                      (1) A portion of a street known as Poplar Street, the portion being located
                   between High Street on the west and Chestnut Street on the east.
                      (2) A portion of an alleyway located between High Street on the west and the
Ord.               southeast corner of Lot #8 Block 31 and the northeast corner of Lot #16 Block
-     10-19-1992   31, and extending through Block 32 and portion of Block 31 as shown on the plat
                   of the city.
                      (3) A portion of an alleyway located between the north edge of Pine Street on
                   the south and extends through the property of Eliston Saint to the north
                   property line of Eliston Saint which is the northeast corner of Lot #16, Block
                   30 and the northwest corner of Lot #8, Block 30.
Ord.  11-14-1994   Closing a portion of the street known as High Street, located between Pine
94-8               Street on the south and Eliston Saint’s north property line on the north.
                      (1) A portion of a street known as Locust Street as shown on the plat of said
                   city, this portion is approximately 60 feet wide in an east/west direction and
                   approximately 400 feet long in a north/south direction and is located between
                   Church Street (formerly Walnut Street) on the south and extending to the
                   northwest corner of Lot 8, Block 31.
                      (2) A portion of a street known as Locust Street as shown on the plat of said
                   city, this portion is approximately 60 feet wide in an east/west direction and
                   approximately 440 feet in a north/south direction and is located between the
                   southwest corner of Lot 16, Block 29 extending to the northwest corner of Lot 1,
Ord.  6-13-1995    Block 29.
95-4                  (3) A portion of High Street as shown on the plat of said city, this portion
                   is approximately 60 feet wide in an east/west direction and approximately 400
                   feet in a north/south direction as located between Church Street (formerly
                   Walnut Street) on the south and extending to the northwest corner of Lot 8,
                   Block 32.
                      (4) A portion of a street known as High Street, as shown on the plat of said
                   city, this portion is approximately 60 feet wide in an east/west direction and
                   approximately 460 feet in a north/south direction as located between the
                   southwest corner of Lot 9, Block 30 and extends to the northwest corner of Lot
                   16, Block 30.
Ord.               Closing a street in the Pleasant Run Center recorded in Plat Cabinet 1, Slide
2020- 2-19-2020    352, in the office of the County Clerk.
04
                  
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section              Code Section
6.955 through 6.975      33.04
Chapter 13A              93.02
18A.225(2)               113.12
18A.228                  113.12
41.240(4)                33.05
42.450 to 42.495         33.04
61.870                   34.01
                         31.31,
                         34.01,
61.870 through 61.884    34.28,
                         34.29,
                         38.56,
                         38.62
61.872 through 61.884    38.07
61.872(4)                34.22
61.872(5)                34.23
61.872(6)                34.24
61.874(1) - (3)          34.30
61.874(3)                34.31
61.874(4)                34.31
61.874(5)                34.32
61.874(6)                34.33
61.878                   34.01,
                         34.28
61.878(1)                34.28
61.880                   34.25
61.880(1)                34.28
61.884                   34.27
62.060                   31.01
65.120                   Ch. 72
65.8840(8)               92.04
65.8840(9)               92.04
66.660                   91.006
82.082                   52.02
Chapter 83A              31.15
83A.010(5)               10.02
83A.010(6)               10.02
83A.010(8)               10.02
83A.030(1)               30.02
83A.040(1)               31.16
83A.040(2)(c)            31.16
83A.040(2)(d)            31.16
83A.040(3)               31.16
83A.040(4)               32.01
83A.040(5)               32.02
83A.040(6)               32.02
83A.040(7)               31.16,
                         32.02
83A.040(8)               31.16,
                         32.02
83A.040(9)               31.03
83A.045                  31.15
83A.050                  31.15
83A.060(1)               32.30
83A.060(2)               32.31
83A.060(3)               32.32
83A.060(4)               32.33
83A.060(5)               32.35
83A.060(6)               32.17
83A.060(7)               32.33
83A.060(8)               32.36,
                         32.37
83A.060(9)               32.38
83A.060(10)              32.39
83A.060(11)              32.40
83A.060(12)              32.41
83A.060(13)              32.41
83A.060(14)              32.42
83A.060(15)              32.43
83A.070                  31.02
83A.075                  31.02
83A.080                  38.01
83A.080(1)               31.30
83A.080(3)               31.03,
                         31.30
83A.080(4)               31.15
83A.080(5)               31.15
83A.085                  31.31
83A.130(1)               30.01
83A.130(2)               30.02
83A.130(3)               31.16
83A.130(4)               31.16
83A.130(5)               32.15
83A.130(6)               32.34
83A.130(7)               31.16
83A.130(8)               31.16
83A.130(9)               31.16
83A.130(10)              31.16
83A.130(11)              32.03,
                         32.16
83A.130(12)              32.03
83A.130(13)              32.03
83A.170                  31.15
83A.175                  32.02
91A.010                  33.01
91A.010(8)               10.02
91A.020                  33.02
91A.030                  33.03
91A.040                  33.04
91A.050                  33.04
91A.060                  33.05
91A.080                  113.01
91A.080(6)               113.06
91A.200                  33.21
91A.210                  33.20
91A.220                  33.21
91A.230                  33.22
91A.240                  33.23
91A.250                  33.24
91A.260                  33.25
91A.270                  33.26
91A.280                  33.27
91A.290                  33.28
Chapter 95               Ch. 36, App. A, § 3,
                         Ch. 36, App. A, § 4
95.018                   37.21
                         35.02,
95.440                   35.04,
                         35.16,
                         35.17
96.020                   53.52
96.355                   52.02
Chapter 107              33.21
Chapters 116 through 121 31.15
131.010(6)               113.06
132.285                  37.01
134.800                  37.04
134.810                  37.04
Chapter 136              37.20
136.120                  110.03
136.602                  110.03
Chapter 154              34.28
174.100                  91.020
174.100(1)               91.021
174.100(2)               91.022
174.100(3)               91.023
174.100(4)               91.024
174.100(5)               91.025
178.290                  91.006
186A.145                 72.26
186A.190                 72.26
189.020                  71.37
189.285                  73.02
189.290                  71.35
189.330(8)               71.02
189.338                  70.20
189.450(5)               72.03
189.450(6)               72.03
189.580                  71.20
189.725                  72.08
189.930                  71.36
189.990(1)               72.99
189.990(2)(a)            71.06
189.993(8)               71.99
Chapter 198B             150.03
198B.070                 150.03
198B.990(1)              150.99
219.310 through 219.991  153.05
226.010                  112.01
226.020                  112.02
226.030                  112.07
226.040                  112.03
226.050                  112.04
226.060                  112.08
226.070                  112.03
226.080                  112.05
226.090                  112.06
226.100                  112.08
226.990(1)               112.99
226.990(3)               112.99
227.700                  93.01
227.702                  93.01
227.704                  93.01
227.706                  93.01
227.708                  93.01
227.710                  93.02
227.715                  93.03
227.715(1)               93.03
227.715(7)               93.03
227.715(8)               93.03
227.720                  93.04
227.730                  93.05,
                         93.06
227.990(1)               150.99
227.990(4)               93.99
Chapter 243              110.03
257.100                  90.06
257.100(4)               90.01
277.200                  74.01
277.990                  74.01
277.990(4)               74.99
277.990(6)               74.99
Chapter 281              72.26
281.920 through 281.936  72.26
281.926                  72.26
281.928                  72.26
281.928(1)               72.26
281.932                  72.26
318.990                  150.99
359.230                  72.26
376.275                  72.26
376.275(1)               72.26
376.275(2)               72.26
411.500 through 411.570  Ch. 92
                         33.04,
Chapter 424              33.24,
                         33.25,
                         53.34
424.120                  53.50
424.220                  33.04
436.600                  90.04,
                         90.99
446.010(1)               10.02
446.010(2)               10.02
446.010(9)               10.02
446.010(10)              10.02
446.010(12)              10.02
446.010(13)              10.02
446.010(14)              10.02
446.010(15)              10.02
446.010(17)              10.02
446.010(18)              10.02
446.010(23)              10.02
446.010(26)              10.02
446.010(27)              10.02
446.010(28)              10.02
446.010(30)              10.02
446.010(31)              10.02
446.010(33)              10.02
446.010(37)              10.02
446.010(39)              10.02
446.010(43)              10.02
446.010(46)              10.02
446.010(47)              10.02
446.010(49)              10.02
446.020(1)               10.03
446.020(2)               10.03
446.030                  10.04
446.050                  10.05
446.060                  10.06
446.080(1)               10.03
446.080(3)               10.03
446.080(4)               10.03
446.090                  10.07
446.100                  10.08
446.110                  10.09
446.140                  10.01
512.020 through 512.040  50.05
525.125                  90.03
525.130                  90.03,
                         90.99
525.135                  90.03
531.020(2)               130.99
531.030(2)               130.99
                         
 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02              10.02
10.03              10.03
10.04              10.04
10.05              10.05
10.06              10.06
10.07              10.07
10.08              10.08
10.09              10.09
10.10              10.10
10.11              10.11
10.12              10.12
10.13              10.13
10.14              10.14
10.15              10.15
10.16              10.16
10.17              10.17
10.18              10.18
10.99              10.99
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
31.01              31.01
31.02              31.02
31.03              31.03
31.20              31.15
31.21              31.16
31.22              31.17
31.35              31.30
31.36              31.31
31.45              31.45
31.46              31.46
31.47              31.47
31.48              31.48
32.01              32.01
32.02              32.02
32.03              32.03
32.20              32.15
32.21              32.16
32.22              32.17
32.35              32.30
32.36              32.31
32.37              32.32
32.38              32.33
32.39              32.34
32.40              32.35
32.41              32.36
32.42              32.37
32.43              32.38
32.44              32.39
32.45              32.40
32.46              32.41
32.47              32.42
32.48              32.43
33.01              33.01
33.02              33.02
33.03              33.03
33.04              33.04,
                   33.99
33.05              33.05
33.06              33.06
33.10              33.20
33.11              33.21
33.12              33.22
33.13              33.23
33.14              33.24
33.15              33.25
33.16              33.26
33.17              33.27
33.18              33.28
34.01              34.01
34.02              34.02
34.03              34.03
34.04              34.04
34.05              34.05
34.10              34.20
34.11              34.21
34.12              34.22
34.13              34.23
34.14              34.24
34.15              34.25
34.16              34.26
34.17              34.27
34.18              34.28
34.19              34.29
34.20              34.30
34.21              34.31
34.22              34.32
34.23              34.33
35.01              35.01
35.02              35.02
35.03              35.03
35.04              35.04
35.15              35.15
35.16              35.16
35.17              35.17
36.01              36.001
36.02              36.002
36.03              36.003
36.04              36.004
36.05              36.005
36.06              36.006
36.10              36.020
36.11              36.021
36.12              36.022
Ch. 36 App.        Ch. 36 App. A
37.01              37.01
37.02              37.02
37.03              37.03
37.04              37.04
37.05              37.05
37.10              37.20
38.01              38.01
38.02              38.02
38.03              38.03,
                   38.99
38.04              38.04
38.05              38.05
38.06              38.06
38.07              38.07
38.08              38.08
38.20              38.20
38.21              38.21
38.22              38.22
38.23              38.23
38.24              38.24
38.25              38.25,
                   38.99
38.35              38.40
38.45              38.55
38.46              38.56
38.47              38.57,
                   38.99
38.48              38.58
38.49              38.59
38.50              38.60
38.51              38.61
38.52              38.62
38.53              38.63
38.99              38.99
50.01              50.01
50.02              50.02
50.03              50.03
50.04              50.04
50.05              50.05
50.15              50.20
50.16              50.21
50.17              50.22
50.18              50.23
50.19              50.24
50.20              50.25
50.21              50.26
50.22              50.27
50.30              50.40
50.31              50.41
50.32              50.42
50.33              50.43
50.35              50.45
50.36              50.46
50.37              50.47
50.38              50.48
50.45              50.60
50.46              50.61
50.47              50.62
50.98              50.63
50.99              50.99
51.01              51.001
51.02              51.002
51.03              51.003
51.04              51.004
51.05              51.005
51.06              51.006
51.08              51.007
51.15              51.020
51.16              51.021
51.17              51.022
51.18              51.023
51.19              51.024
51.20              51.025
51.21              51.026
51.22              51.027
51.23              51.028
51.24              51.029
51.25              51.030
51.26              51.031
51.27              51.032
51.28              51.033
51.29              51.034
51.30              51.035
51.31              51.036
51.32              51.037
51.33              51.038
51.40              51.050
51.41              51.051
51.42              51.052
51.43              51.053
51.44              51.054
51.45              51.055
51.46              51.056
51.55              51.070
51.56              51.071
51.57              51.072
51.58              51.073
51.59              51.074
51.60              51.075
51.61              51.076
51.62              51.077
51.99              51.999
52.01              52.01
52.02              52.02
52.03              52.03
52.04              52.04
53.01              53.01
53.02              53.02
53.03              53.15
53.04              53.16
53.05              53.17
53.06              53.18
53.07              53.30
53.08              53.31
53.09              53.32
53.10              53.33
53.12              53.34
53.13              53.35
53.14              53.50
53.15              53.51
53.16              53.52
70.01              70.01
70.02              70.02
70.03              70.03
70.04              70.04
70.05              70.05
70.15              70.20
70.16              70.21
70.17              70.22
70.18              70.23
70.19              70.24
70.20              70.25
70.21              70.26
70.99              70.99
71.01              71.01
71.02              71.02
71.03              71.03
71.04              71.04
71.05              71.05
71.06              71.06
71.15              71.20
71.16              71.21
71.25              71.35
71.26              71.36
71.27              71.37
71.40              71.50
71.41              71.51
71.42              71.52
71.43              71.53
71.44              71.54
71.45              71.55
71.46              71.56
71.47              71.57
71.48              71.58
71.49              71.59
71.50              71.60
71.51              71.61
72.01              72.01
72.02              72.02
72.03              72.03
72.04              72.04
72.05              72.05
72.06              72.06
72.07              72.07
72.08              72.08
72.09              72.09
72.10              72.10
72.11              72.11
72.12              72.12
72.13              72.13
72.20              72.25
72.22              72.26
72.35              72.40
72.36              72.41
72.37              72.42
72.99              72.99
73.01              73.01
73.02              73.02
73.03              73.03
73.04              73.04
73.99              73.99
74.02              74.01
74.03              74.02
74.99              74.99
Ch. 75 Schd. I     Ch. 75 Schd. I
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.04              90.04
90.05              90.05
90.06              90.06
90.07              90.07
90.08              90.08
90.09              90.09
90.15              90.20
90.16              90.21
90.17              90.22
90.18              90.23
90.19              90.24
90.20              90.25
90.99              90.99
91.01              91.001
91.02              91.002
91.03              91.003
91.04              91.004
91.05              91.005
91.06              91.006
91.15              91.020
91.16              91.021
91.17              91.022
91.18              91.023
91.19              91.024
91.20              91.025
91.30              91.040
91.31              91.041
91.32              91.042
91.33              91.043
91.45              91.055
91.46              91.056
91.47              91.057
91.48              91.058
91.55              91.070,
                   91.999
91.99              91.999
92.01              92.01
92.02              92.02
92.03              92.03
92.04              92.04
92.05              92.05
92.06              92.06
92.99              92.99
93.01              93.01
93.02              93.02
93.03              93.03
93.04              93.04
93.05              93.05
93.06              93.06
93.20              93.20
93.21              93.21
93.35              93.35
93.36              93.36
93.37              93.37
93.38              93.38
93.99              93.99
94.01              94.01
94.02              94.02
94.03              94.03
94.04              94.04
94.05              94.05
94.99              94.99
95.01              95.01
95.99              95.99
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.03             110.03
110.04             110.04
110.05             110.05
110.06             110.06
110.07             110.07
110.08             110.08
110.09             110.09
110.10             110.10
110.11             110.11
110.12             110.12
110.13             110.13
110.14             110.14
110.15             110.15
110.99             110.99
111.01             111.01
111.02             111.02
111.03             111.03
111.04             111.04
111.05             111.05
111.06             111.06
111.07             111.07
111.08             111.08
111.09             111.09
111.99             111.99
112.01             112.01
112.02             112.02
112.03             112.03
112.04             112.04
112.05             112.05
112.06             112.06
112.07             112.07
112.08             112.08
112.99             112.99
113.01             113.01
113.02             113.02
113.03             113.03
113.04             113.04
113.05             113.05
113.06             113.06
113.07             113.07
113.08             113.08
113.09             113.09
113.10             113.10
113.11             113.11
113.12             113.12
113.13             113.13
114.01             114.01
114.03             114.02
114.04             114.03
114.05             114.04
114.06             114.05
115.01             115.01
115.02             115.02
115.99             115.99
130.01             130.01
130.02             130.02
130.03             130.03
130.04             130.04
130.05             130.05
130.06             130.06
130.07             130.07
130.99             130.99
150.01             150.01
150.02             150.02
150.03             150.03
150.99             150.99
151.01             151.01
152.01             152.01
153.01             153.01
153.02             153.02
153.03             153.03
153.04             153.04
153.05             153.05
153.99             153.99
154.01             154.01
154.02             154.02
154.03             154.03
154.04             154.04
154.05             154.05
154.06             154.06
154.07             154.07
154.08             154.08
Ch. 154 App. A     Ch. 154 App. A
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No. Date Passed Description
                     34.01 –
-        11-1-1976   34.05,
                     34.20-
                     34.28
2010-01  11-1-2010   151.01
2013-01  5-6-2013    TSO V
2013-02  5-6-2013    TSO V
2013-04  8-5-2013    TSO V
2013-06  8-5-2013    TSO V
2015-01  11-2-2015   TSO V
2016-01  6-6-2016    30.15
-        6-12-2018   74.99
-        3-18-2019   74.99
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         115.01,
                     115.99
                     90.20,
-        - -         90.25,
                     90.99
-        7-3-1961    71.06
-        8-19-1961   TSO IV
-        4-2-1962    51.056
-        2-21-1962   TSO I
-        9-9-1974    32.16
-        4-7-1975    51.036
-        6-2-1975    TSO II
-        8-4-1975    71.05
-        8-1-1977    152.01
-        5-1-1978    94.03,
                     94.99
-        11-5-1979   152.01
                     50.01 –
                     50.05,
                     50.20-
                     50.27,
                     50.40-
                     50.48,
                     50.60-
                     50.63,
                     50.99,
-        10-6-1980   51.001-
                     51.007,
                     51.020-
                     51.038,
                     51.051-
                     51.055,
                     51.072,
                     51.073,
                     51.075,
                     51.077
-        2-2-1981    35.03
-        7-6-1981    95.01,
                     95.99
-        1-4-1982    115.02,
                     115.99
                     72.03,
-        7-6-1982    72.13,
                     74.02
-        7-6-1982    90.21,
                     90.99
-        9-7-1982    91.042,
                     91.999
-        10-4-1982   TSO III
-        5-2-1983    33.03
-        2-4-1985    111.09
                     90.01,
-        6-17-1985   90.07,
                     90.99
                     91.055 –
-        9-3-1985    91.058,
                     91.999
-        6-16-1986   111.02
-        6-16-1986   152.01
-        7-14-1986   TSO III
-        9-2-1986    37.01,
                     37.03
                     51.050,
-        9-2-1986    51.070-
                     51.074,
                     51.076
                     31.31,
                     31.46-
-        5-4-1987    31.48,
                     35.02,
                     35.16,
                     35.17
-        7-6-1987    90.23
-        9-7-1988    Ch. 36, App. A, § 10
                     51.052,
-        2-8-1989    51.071,
                     51.072
                     153.01 –
-        4-3-1989    153.05,
                     153.99
-        4-16-1990   51.050
-        8-6-1990    113.01 –
                     113.12
-        5-15-1991   TSO I
-        8-7-1991    TSO I
-        1-6-1992    31.31
                     153.01 –
-        1-6-1992    153.05,
                     153.99
-        2-17-1992   154.01 –
                     154.08
-        10-19-1992  TSO VI
93-2     4-5-1993    71.06
93-3     4-5-1993    153.02
93-4     6-7-1993    TSO V
94-1     1-10-1994   114.01 –
                     114.05
94-2     2-7-1994    152.01
                     36.001,
                     36.003,
-        3-7-1994    36.005,
                     36.021,
                     36.022
94-4     6-7-1994    93.35 –
                     93.38
                     38.01 –
                     38.08,
                     38.20-
94-7     11-14-1994  38.25,
                     38.40,
                     38.55-
                     38.63,
                     38.99
94-8     11-14-1994  TSO VI
95-2     5-1-1995    51.071,
                     51.072,
95-3     5-1-1995    52.01 –
                     52.04
95-4     6-13-1995   TSO VI
95-7     11-6-1995   TSO V
                     130.01 –
96-1     2-5-1996    130.07,
                     130.99
96-4     8-3-1996    91.070,
                     91.999
96-3     9-3-1996    37.20
96-5     9-23-1996   35.04,
                     Ch. 36, App. A, § 11
                     53.01,
                     53.02,
                     53.15-
97-1     2-2-1997    53.18,
                     53.30-
                     53.35,
                     53.50-
                     53.52
-        8-3-1998    92.01,
                     92.03
2002-02  5-6-2002    51.076
2004-05  9-16-2004   51.072,
                     51.076
                     90.20,
2004-07  11-1-2004   90.25,
                     90.99
2005-02  3-28-2005   113.01 –
                     113.12
2005-05  10-3-2005   51.070
2006-01  4-3-2006    50.41
2006-05  9-27-2006   51.071
2007-02  6-4-2007    113.13
2007-03  7-2-2007    153.02
2007-04  7-2-2007    51.076
2008-03  8-4-2008    71.05
2009-02  8-3-2009    32.16
2009-03  10-19-2009  51.070 –
                     51.072
2010-01  7-30-2010   153.02
2010-02  7-30-2010   32.16
2010-04  9-23-2010   37.02,
                     37.04
                     110.01 –
2011-01  1-10-2011   110.15,
                     110.99
                     51.002,
2011-03  8-8-2011    51.070-
                     51.072,
                     51.076
2011-04  9-22-2011   37.02 –
                     37.04
2011-05  12-15-2011  TSO I
2012-02  4-5-2012    110.05
2012-04  4-5-2012    93.35
2013-02  4-22-2013   34.04
2014-01  9-23-2014   37.02,
                     37.04
2015-01  9-18-2015   37.02,
                     37.04
2015-02  10-22-2015  93.35
2015-03  11-17-2015  71.05
2016-02  5-2-2016    TSO III
2016-03  6-30-2016   51.072
2016-04  7-5-2016    51.071
2016-05  9-12-2016   37.02,
                     37.04
2017-01  1-24-2017   TSO III
2017-02  6-5-2017    32.16
2017-03  9-18-2017   37.02
2018-01  2-27-2018   51.072
2018-02  4-12-2018   37.21
2018-03  6-22-2018   51.056
2019-01  2-11-2019   111.09
2019-02  2-14-2019   51.072
2019-04  3-18-2019   110.03
2020-03  2-17-2020   51.072
2020-04  2-19-2020   TSO VI
2020-06  9-14-2020   TSO III
2020-08  9-16-2020   37.02,
                     37.04
2020-07  9-23-2020   51.071
2021-03  5-10-2021   Adopting Ordinance
2021-04  7-17-2021   90.20
2021-06  9-16-2021   37.02,
                     37.04
2022-001 2-14-2022   51.076
2022-03  9-19-2022   37.02,
                     37.04
2023-003 9-11-2023   51.076
2023-004 9-25-2023   37.02,
                     37.04
2024-001 2-12-2024   51.072
                    
 
