CITY OF OWENTON, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 800, passed 6-19-2025; and
State legislation current through 2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 777
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CODIFICATION OF ALL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
OWENTON, KENTUCKY
   THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF OWENTON, KENTUCKY HEREBY ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
   SECTION I
The codification of all current Ordinances of the City of Owenton, Kentucky as
compiled and published in 2022 by American Legal Publishing Corporation,
together with all tables, indexes and incorporoations by reference therein
adopted.
   SECTION II
All ordinances of the City of Owenton, Kentucky not included, restated or
specifically incorporated by reference in the aforementioned codification are
hereby repealed.
Given first reading in special session this  19th  day of January 2023.
Given second reading and adopted in special session this  23rd  day of January
2023.
Signed:  /s/
ADAM GAINES, MAYOR
Attested:  /s/
SHERRY HAMILTON, CITY CLERK
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections shall be known and designated as the
“Owenton Code,” for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Title heads, chapter heads and section and division heads or
titles, and explanatory notes and cross-references, do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to those
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION. Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010(1))
   AND. May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL. Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   AVIS. The automated vehicle information system established and maintained by
the Transportation Cabinet to collect titling and registration information on
vehicles and boats and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards.
(KRS 446.010(55))
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. When used in this code shall
denote the City of Owenton, irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   COMPANY. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   CORPORATION. May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   COUNCIL. The city legislative body.
(KRS 83A.010(5))
   COUNTY. Owen County, Kentucky.
   CRUELTY. As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted.
(KRS 446.010(12))
   DIRECTORS. When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   DOMESTIC. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, means all those incorporated or formed by authority
of this state.
(KRS 446.010(14))
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any animal converted to domestic habitat.
(KRS 446.010(15))
   EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY. The Mayor.
(KRS 83A.010(6), KRS 91A.010(4))
   FEDERAL. Refers to the United States.
(KRS 446.010(17))
   FOREIGN. When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust or
limited liability company, includes all those incorporated or formed by
authority of any other state.
(KRS 446.010(18))
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KRS. Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and all
rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest.
(KRS 446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council.
(KRS 91A.010(8))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER. A City Council member.
(KRS 83A.010(8))
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species.
(KRS 446.010(25))
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
(KRS 446.010(26))
   MONTH. Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Owenton, Kentucky.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH. (KRS 446.010(28))
   PARTNERSHIP. Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   PEACE OFFICER. Includes sheriffs, constables granted police powers,
coroners, jailers, metropolitan and urban-county government correctional
officers, marshals, police officers and other persons with similar authority to
make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGULAR ELECTION. The election in even-numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected, and the election in odd-numbered years at which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
   SWORN. Includes affirmed in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   VACANCY IN OFFICE. Exists when there is an unexpired part of a term of
office without a lawful incumbent therein, when the person elected or appointed
to an office fails to qualify according to law or when there has been no
election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies whether
the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the state,
county, city, district or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   YEAR. Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to that meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which the public office in
which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday or a day on which the public
office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and legally
closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days just
mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE shall mean the
time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the duty or
compliance with the notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of the
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include those acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part;
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Council which enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council, as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment,
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done or
penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of the proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, the provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.32 should be used by the city to amend, add or repeal a chapter, section or
division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (KRS 83A.090)
   (C)   If a KRS cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
      or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see KRS 61.870 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
Statutory reference:
   Fine amount for ordinance violations authorized by state law, see KRS
83A.065 and 534.040
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
35.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
36.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
37.   TAXATION
      
38.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
39.   CODE OF ETHICS
      
40.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130(1)) (Prior Code, § 30.01)
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by the
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130(2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members.
(KRS 83A.030(1))
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oath; bond
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.15   Election procedure
   
31.16   Mayor
   
31.17   City Council members
   
31.18   Mayor Pro Tem
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.30   Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.31   City Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.32   City Attorney
   
31.33   Building Inspector
   
31.34   Street Commissioner
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his or her office, take the following oath: “I do
solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the
Constitution of this commonwealth and the Constitution of the United States,
and be faithful and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky, so long as I continue
a citizen thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my
ability, the office of           , according to law; and I do further solemnly
swear (or affirm) that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I being
a citizen of this United States, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons
within this state, nor out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to
fight a duel with deadly weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a
challenge, nor aided or assisted any person thus offending, so help me God,” as
established by § 228 of the Constitution of the state.
   (B)   Certification of oath.
      (1)   Certification of the person administering the oath of office to an
elected official shall certify in writing that the oath was administered and
the date of its administration.
      (2)   Said certification shall be filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
   (C)   Bond. Official bonds shall, if required, meet the standards of KRS
62.060.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected
city officer no later than the first Monday of May in the year in which the
officer is elected. An elected officer’s compensation shall not be changed
after his or her election or during his or her term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of the Mayors and City Council
members with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local
Government computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual
increase or decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using
1949 as the base year in accordance with § 246 of the Constitution of the
state, which provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid
at a rate no greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the
first class and City Council members shall be paid at a rate no greater than
$7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
Department for Local Government.
   (B)   The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer by ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)   The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees in
accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)   All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the city
treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any officer
or employee.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.03 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers.
      (1)   Any elected officer, in case of misconduct, inability or willful
neglect in the performance of the duties of his or her office, may be removed
from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City Council, exclusive
of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the deliberation of his or
her removal.
      (2)   No elected officer shall be removed without having been given the
right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the right to
appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on the
record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before the
expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(9)
   Removal of nonelected officers, see KRS 83A.080(3)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.15 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Election for the offices of Mayor and City Council of the city shall
be held by non-partisan primary election, held at the time prescribed by law
for primary elections generally, pursuant to KRS 83A.050 and 83A.170. Further,
no election for Mayor or City Council shall be conducted at any primary
election unless required by law.
   (B)   The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (C)   Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Council members may not be abolished.
   (D)   No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (E)   No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later than
240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the event of
a vacancy in the office.
   (F)   The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D) and (E) above and this
division (F), but no existing elected office may be changed.
(Prior Code, § 31.20) (Ord. 416, passed 2-25-1981; Ord. 544, passed 12-10-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080(3),(4)
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
§ 31.16 MAYOR.
   (A)   Election; term of office.
      (1)   The Mayor of the city shall be elected by the voters of the city at
a regular election.
      (2)   His or her term of office begins on January 1 following his or her
election and shall be for four years and until his or her successor qualifies.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 25 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or
her term of office.
   (C)   Vacancy. If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the City Council
shall fill the vacancy within 30 days. If for any reason any vacancy in the
office of Mayor is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor
shall promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall
serve for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(1), (2), (6))
      (1)   When voting to fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor, a member of
the City Council shall not vote for himself or herself.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(c))
      (2)   When voting to fill a vacancy created by the resignation of the
Mayor, the resigning Mayor shall not vote on his or her successor.
(KRS 83A.040(3))
      (3)    No vacancy by reason of voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be submitted through
electronic mail if it originates from the Mayor’s electronic mail address and
includes also the Mayor’s handwritten signature. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
on or after the date specified in the written letter of resignation. If a
resignation date is not specified, the written resignation shall be deemed to
become effective at the first regular or special meeting of the legislative
body occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (4)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor which is required by law
to be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately
notify in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the
vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
      (5)   The City Council shall elect from among its members an individual
to preside over meetings of the City Council during any vacancy in the office
of the Mayor in accordance with the provisions of KRS 83A.130.
(KRS 83A.040(2)(d))
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders and all applicable statutes. He or she shall supervise
all departments of city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his or her jurisdiction and require each department to make
reports to him or her as required by ordinance or as he or she deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the City Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he or she finds appropriate or as
required by ordinance, but not less than annually. He or she shall make any
recommendations for actions by the City Council he or she finds in the public
interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)   Subject to disapproval of the City Council, the Mayor shall
promulgate procedures to ensure orderly administration of the functions of city
government and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or
upon revision or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the
person responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor’s power, duties or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his or her official
authority to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order.
Executive orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a
permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his or her agent designated by
executive order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance or contract and except
for employees of the City Council.
(KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he or she is unable to attend to the
duties of his or her office by delegating responsibility for any function to be
performed, in accordance with division (D)(5) above. However, the Mayor may not
delegate the responsibility of presiding at meetings of the City Council, and
the authority to approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may
only be delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the City Council, the
Mayor may rescind any action taken in his or her absence under this section
within 30 days of such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to
attend to his or her duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of
Mayor may be declared vacant by a majority vote of the City Council and the
provisions of division (C) above shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
   (E)   Compensation. The salary of the Mayor shall be $18,000 per year
beginning January 1, 2015. The position of Mayor shall receive $300 per month
for health and life insurance benefits.
(Prior Code, § 31.21) (Ord. 381, passed 9-6-1977; Ord. 489, passed 4-5-1988;
Ord. 613, passed 4-6-1999; Ord. 738, passed 4-28-2014)
§ 31.17 CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 31.22)
§ 31.18 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   For provisions concerning the Mayor Pro Tem, see §
32.15 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 31.23)
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)   All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
the City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be
appointed by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by
the City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)   The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)   City Clerk-Treasurer;
      (2)   City Attorney; and
      (3)   Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 31.35)
Statutory reference:
   Nonelected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.31 CITY CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The nonelected office of Clerk-Treasurer of the city is hereby
created.
   (B)   Said office shall be filled by nomination by the Mayor with the
concurrence of the City Council.
   (C)   Said officer shall be a citizen of the county, at least 18 years of
age and a high school graduate.
   (D)   Said officer shall take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Constitution of the state within 30 days after receiving notification of the
appointment.
   (E)   Before entering upon the duties of said office and within 30 days
after receiving notice of appointment, said officer shall execute a corporate
bond in a sum of at least $50,000, conditioned for the faithful performance of
the duties of said office and securing collection of any moneys due the city.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the financial officer of the city, the
Clerk of the Council, the City Treasurer and the occupational license
collector.
   (G)   In the capacity of the City Clerk, said officer shall assist in the
preparing of the agenda for and shall attend all meetings of the City Council;
keep full and accurate minutes of City Council proceedings recording them prior
to the next regular meeting in a journal kept for that purpose and deliver
copies of said minutes to the Mayor and City Council members before the
following regular meeting; act as custodian of the city seal and of all records
and papers not properly belonging to some other office; shall advertise all
ordinances adopted by the City Council; and perform such other duties as may be
required by the City Council.
   (H)   (1)   In the capacity of the City Treasurer, said officer shall
supervise the performance of all municipal accounting including the processing
of bills, issuance of checks, preparation of necessary financial records;
transfer funds from one account to another; prepare or supervise the
preparation of financial reports for the City Council, federal and state
agencies relating to social security and similar programs; provide information
and assistance to federal, state and local auditors; and upon approval by the
City Council make all banking and investing decisions and transactions.
      (2)   Upon allowance by City Council, the Treasurer prepares checks and
has them signed by two of the following: Clerk-Treasurer, Mayor or a designated
City Council member.
   (I)   In the capacity of occupational license collector, said officer shall
supervise and mail notices of occupational license due and supervise and
participate in the collection of occupational license, building permits and
other receipts due the city; issue occupational licenses; prepare bank
deposits; order supplies pertaining to the office of Clerk-Treasurer; collect
delinquent occupational taxes and maintain records relating to same and make
such reports to the City Council as it may require.
   (J)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall, no later than January 31 of each year, mail
to the Department for Local Government, a list containing current city
information including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The correct name of the Mayor, legislative body members and the
following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
         (a)   City Clerk;
         (b)   City Treasurer;
         (c)   City Manager;
         (d)   City Attorney;
         (e)   Finance Director;
         (f)   Police Chief;
         (g)   Fire Chief; and
         (h)   Public Works Director.
      (2)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall and
telephone number of City Hall; and
      (3)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
   (K)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall perform of any other duties and
responsibilities required of the City Clerk by statute or ordinance.
(KRS 83A.085)
   (L)   The salary of the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be established by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 31.36) (Ord. 382, passed 9-6-1977; Ord. 490, passed 4-5-1988;
Ord. 521, passed 7-3-1990; Ord. 523, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 31.32 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The part-time nonelected office of City Attorney of the city is hereby
created.
   (B)   Said office shall be filled by nomination by the Mayor with the
concurrence of the City Council.
   (C)   Said officer shall be a resident of the county, at least 18 years of
age and have a law degree.
   (D)   Within 30 days after receiving notification of appointment, said
officer shall take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the Constitution
of the state.
   (E)   Said officer shall advise the City Council and city officers of all
legal matters pertaining to the business of the city; prosecute all violations
of city ordinances; represent the city in all litigation to which it may be a
party; prepare legal documents and papers on behalf of the city; and perform
all other duties required of him or her by the City Council or Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 31.37) (Ord. 395, passed 2-6-1979; Ord. 427, passed 4-26-1982;
Ord. 436, passed 8-3-1982; Ord. 489, passed 4-5-1988; Ord. 606, passed 9-1-
1998)
§ 31.33 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   Services of a Building Inspector are provided for by a contract dated 4-9-
1990 between the city and the City of Carrollton.
(Prior Code, § 31.38)
§ 31.34 STREET COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The part-time nonelected office of Street Commissioner of the city is
hereby created.
   (B)   Said office shall be filled by nomination by the Mayor with the
concurrence of the City Council.
   (C)   The term of said office shall be two years beginning on the first
Monday in January of each even-numbered year and until a successor is appointed
and qualified.
   (D)   Said officer shall be a member of the City Council. The officer’s
salary as City Council member includes these duties.
   (E)   It shall be the city of the Street Commissioner to inspect the
condition of city streets and alleys and recommend to the City Council such
resurfacing, patching or alterations as deemed advisable; and to inspect the
condition of the street signs and recommend to the City Council, purchase of
such new signs or replacements as he or she deems advisable.
   (F)   Within 30 days after receiving notification of appointment, said
officer shall take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the Constitution
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 31.39) (Ord. 431, passed 4-26-1982)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules of Procedure
   
32.15   Mayor as presiding officer
   
32.16   Meetings
   
32.17   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.30   One subject; title
   
32.31   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.32   Form of amendment
   
32.33   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.34   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.35   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.36   Official city records
   
32.37   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.38   Publication requirements
   
32.39   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.40   Periodic review required
   
32.41   Municipal orders
   
32.42   Proved by City Clerk-Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.43   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office.
      (1)   Each City Council member shall be elected at large by the voters of
the city at a regular election.
      (2)   Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 21 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city and shall reside in the city throughout his or her
term of office.
(KRS 83A.040(4))
   (C)   Compensation. The salary of each City Council member of the city,
retroactive to January 1, 2011, is now established at the sum of $5,400 per
year.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. 383, passed 9-6-1977; Ord. 614, passed 4-6-1999;
Ord. 710, passed 9-24-2012)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on the City Council occur in a way
that one or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30
days fill the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable
notice of his or her selection as will enable him or her to meet and act with
the remaining members in making further appointments until all vacancies are
filled. If vacancies occur in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor
shall appoint qualified persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute
a quorum. Remaining vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)    No vacancy by reason of voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation may be
submitted through electronic mail if it originates from the Council member’s
electronic mail address and includes also the Council member’s handwritten
signature. The resignation shall be effective at the next regular or special
meeting of the City Council occurring on or after the date specified in the
written letter of resignation. If a resignation date is not specified, the
written resignation shall be deemed to become effective at the first regular or
special meeting of the City Council occurring on or after its receipt.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on the City
Council is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall
promptly fill the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve
for the same period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and
shall be exercised by the elected Council of the city.
      (2)   The City Council may not perform any executive functions except
those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The City Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties
and responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The City Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue
to operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a
budget which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   (1)   The City Council may investigate all activities of city
government.
      (2)   The City Council may require any city officer or employee to
prepare and submit to it sworn statements regarding the performance of his or
her official duties.
      (3)   Any statement required by the City Council to be submitted or any
investigation undertaken by the City Council, if any office, department or
agency under the jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted
or undertaken unless and until written notice of the City Council’s action is
given to the Mayor.
      (4)   The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the City
Council and to appear personally or through his or her designee on behalf of
any department, office or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130(13))
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.15 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the City Council. In the
absence of the Mayor at any meeting of the City Council, the City Council
members present may elect a Mayor Pro Tem for that meeting.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in City Council proceedings, but shall not
have a vote, except that he or she may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.20) (Ord. 425, passed 4-26-1982)
§ 32.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold regular meetings once each month on the
second Thursday of each month; provided, however, that whenever the second
Thursday of each month falls on a legal holiday, then the regular meeting for
that month shall be held on the ensuing Thursday which is secular day, or if
such Thursday is also a holiday, then on the ensuing Thursday.
      (1)   The City Council shall conduct its regular meeting at 5:30 p.m.
prevailing time on the day and the place provided herein.
      (2)   The regular meeting place at which said City Council shall hold its
meetings shall be at the City Hall, 220 South Main Street, in the city.
   (B)   Special meetings of said City Council may be called at any time by the
Mayor or by four members of the City Council, by written notice delivered at
least 24 hours prior to the time specified for the proposed meeting, to each
member, to the Mayor, to each local newspaper of the general circulation, to
each news service and to each local radio or television station which has on
file with the City Council a written request to be notified of special meetings
of said City Council, in accordance with KRS 61.805 through 61.991.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under §
31.31 of this code and by the officer presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.21) (Ord. 380, passed 6-21-1977; Ord. 567,
passed 8-2-1994; Ord. 763, passed 4-2-2019; Ord. 771, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 32.17 QUORUM.
   At any meeting of the City Council, a majority of the members of said City
Council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 32.22) (Ord. 2, passed 9-3-1907)
ORDINANCES
§ 32.30 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060(1)) (Prior Code, § 32.35)
§ 32.31 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “be it ordained by the City of Owenton.”
(KRS 83A.060(2)) (Prior Code, § 32.36)
§ 32.32 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
words being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060(3)) (Prior Code, § 32.37)
§ 32.33 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no ordinance shall be
enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the City Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the motion. Publication requirements of §
32.38 of this code shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of
the emergency ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060(4), (7)) (Prior Code, § 32.38)
§ 32.34 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the City Council shall be submitted to the
Mayor who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance
by affixing his or her signature or disapprove it by returning it to the City
Council together with a statement of his or her objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor’s approval, unless he
or she fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after
receiving it, or unless the City Council votes to override the Mayor’s veto
upon reconsideration of the ordinance, not later than the second regular
meeting following its return, by the affirmation vote of one or more than a
majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130(6)) (Prior Code, § 32.39)
§ 32.35 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide or
nationally recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title, source
and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without setting
them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is made a
part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060(5)) (Prior Code, § 32.40)
§ 32.36 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the City Council is hereby made a part of the
permanent records of the city, and on passage of an ordinance, the vote of each
member of the City Council shall be entered on the official record of the
meeting.
   (B)   The City Council has provided, under the provisions of §§
31.31(C) and
32.37 of this code, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent
records of the city. The City Clerk-Treasurer and the presiding officer shall
sign the official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.41)
§ 32.37 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk-Treasurer in the following manner.
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(8)) (Prior Code, § 32.42)
§ 32.38 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.33(B) of this code, no ordinance shall be enforceable until published,
pursuant to KRS Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
City Council. If the City Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary,
the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to practice
law in the commonwealth and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes fines, penalties,
forfeitures, taxes or fees.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads in
lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060(9)) (Prior Code, § 32.43)
§ 32.39 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(10)) (Prior Code, § 32.44)
§ 32.40 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years, all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent and
invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060(11)) (Prior Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.41 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   The City Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders
shall be in writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders
may be amended only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders
adopted shall be maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions and
other agencies over which the City Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060(12), (13)) (Prior Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.42 PROVED BY CITY CLERK-TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk-Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060(14)) (Prior Code, § 32.47)
§ 32.43 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, City Council members shall be entitled to the
same immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060(15)) (Prior Code, § 32.48)
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.04   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.05   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
   
33.06   Claims against city
   
33.07   Withdrawing funds from treasury
Improvements
   
33.20   Definitions
   
33.21   Financing of improvements
   
33.22   Apportionment of cost
   
33.23   Comprehensive report required
   
33.24   Public hearing required
   
33.25   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.26   Affected owner may contest
   
33.27   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.28   Effect of additional property or change in financing
 
   
33.99   Penalty
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUDGET. A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities or objectives during a fiscal year.
   DEBT SERVICE. The sum of money required to pay installments of principal and
interest on bonds, notes and other evidence of debt accruing within a fiscal
year and to maintain sinking funds.
   ENCUMBRANCES. Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an ENCUMBRANCE
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   FISCAL YEAR. The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS. The standards for audit
of governmental organizations, programs, activities and functions issued by the
Comptroller General of the U.S..
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING. The standards and
procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting Standards
Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure and financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020) (Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 33.03 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUDGET OFFICER. The Mayor.
      BUDGET YEAR. The fiscal year for which a budget is made.
      CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER. The City Clerk-Treasurer.
      CURRENT YEAR. The fiscal year in which a budget is prepared and adopted,
for example, the fiscal year next preceding the budget year.
      PREVIOUS YEAR. The last complete fiscal year before the current year.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to adopt rules governing the
City Council in its proceedings for administering the financial affairs of the
city, and to establish a standard procedure for the making and administration
of budgets, to place responsibility for the tasks related to budget preparation
and administration, the determination of the amount of taxes and other revenues
in such manner that budgets may be balanced of actual cash receipts within the
budget period, the establishment of appropriations, the payment of debt and the
control of other expenditures. Its provisions are intended to enable the City
Council to make financial plans for both current and capital expenditures and
to permit taxpayers and investors to form intelligent policies and
administration of the city. For the accomplishment of this purpose, the
provisions of this section shall be broadly construed and shall be in effect
until repealed or amended by a majority vote of the City Council in the same
manner as required by state statutes for the adoption of an ordinance, except
that in no case may a vote be taken on amendment or repeal of such ordinance at
the meeting at which it is first proposed.
   (C)   Powers and duties. Within the provisions and for the purpose of this
section, officers and employees shall have the power and be subject to the
duties expressly stated or necessarily implied.
   (D)   Fiscal year. The fiscal year shall begin on July 1 of each year.
   (E)   Preparation and submission of budget. The Budget Officer annually
shall submit to the City Council a budget and an explanatory budget message.
The budget shall include the following:
      (1)   Organization units within the department or agency; and
      (2)   Object of expenditure:
         (a)   Personal services;
         (b)   Contractual services;
         (c)   Materials and supplies;
         (d)   Other expenses;
         (e)   Capital outlay; and
         (f)   Other such supporting data as necessary.
   (F)   Adoption of budget. The budget shall be adopted by the favorable votes
of at least a majority of all the members of the governing body.
   (G)   Effective date of budget; certification; copies. Upon final adoption,
the budget shall be in effect for the budget year. A copy of the budget as
finally adopted, shall be certified by the Budget Officer and the City Clerk-
Treasurer and filed in the office of the Chief Financial Officer. The budget so
certified shall be printed or otherwise reproduced and sufficient copies
thereof shall be made available for the use of all offices, departments and
agencies and for the use of interested persons and civic organizations. A
summary shall be published in accordance with KRS 424.240.
   (H)   Budget established appropriations. From the effective date of the
budget, the several amounts stated therein as proposed expenditures shall be
and become appropriated to the several objects and purposes there named.
   (I)   Budget. The budget shall provide a complete program and financial plan
for all General Fund revenues for the budget year. It shall contain in tabular
form:
      (1)   A general summary;
      (2)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated revenues applicable to
proposed expenditures; and
      (3)   All proposed expenditures.
   (J)   Proposed expenditures. The proposed expenditures shall be itemized as
set out in division (E) above and each item numbered in accordance with the
classification system recommended in the state’s Municipal Accounting Manual.
Separate provisions shall be included in the budget for at least:
      (1)   Administration, operation and maintenance of each office,
department or agency of the city supported by the General Fund;
      (2)   Contingent expense in an amount not more than 5% of the total
revenue estimated for the budget year; and
      (3)   Expenditures proposed for capital projects.
   (K)   Budget summary. At the head of the budget there shall appear a summary
of the budget, which need not be itemized further than by principal sources of
anticipated revenue, stating separately the amount to be raised by property tax
and by departments and kinds of expenditures, in such a manner as to present to
taxpayers a simple and clear summary of the detailed estimates of the budget.
   (L)   Approval of expenditures. The Chief Financial Officer shall have
charge of the administration of the financial affairs of the city and to that
end shall supervise and be responsible for the disbursement of all moneys and
have control over all expenditures to ensure that appropriations are not
exceeded. He or she shall exercise financial budgetary control over each
office, department and agency and shall cause separate accounts to be kept for
the items of appropriations contained in the budget, each of which accounts
shall show the amount of the appropriation, the amounts paid therefrom and the
unencumbered balance. The same classification and numbering system used in the
budget and required by division (J) above shall be used. Unless he or she shall
certify that there is sufficient unencumbered balance available, no expenditure
shall be made.
   (M)   Transfers of appropriations. The Financial Officer may at times
transfer any unencumbered appropriation balance or portion thereof between
general classifications of expenditures within an office, department or agency.
At the request of the Budget Officer and within the last three months of the
budget year, the City Council may by resolution transfer any unencumbered
appropriation balance or portion thereof from one office, department or agency
to another.
   (N)   When contracts and expenditures prohibited. No office, department or
agency shall, during any budget year, expend or contract to expend any money or
incur any liability or to enter into any contract which by its terms involves
the expenditure of money for any purpose in excess of the amounts appropriated
for that general classification of expenditure pursuant to this section. Any
contract, verbal or written, made in violation of this section shall be null
and void.
   (O)   Appropriations lapse at end of year. All appropriations shall lapse at
the end of the budget year, to the extent that they shall not have been
expended or lawfully encumbered.
   (P)   Emergency appropriations and borrowing. At any time of the budget
year, the governing body may, pursuant to this division (P), make emergency
appropriations to meet a pressing need for public expenditure, for other than a
regular or recurring requirement to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. Such appropriation shall be by resolution adopted by the favorable
votes of at least a majority of the members of the governing body and shall be
made only upon recommendation of the Budget Officer. The total amount of all
emergency appropriations made in any budget year shall not exceed the amount of
unanticipated actual revenue in excess of the budget estimates, plus transfers
from other appropriations.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. 365, passed 5- -1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.04 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   Each city of the first through fifth class shall, after the close of
each fiscal year, cause each fund of the city to be audited by the auditor of
public accounts or a certified public accountant. The audits shall be completed
by February 1 immediately following the fiscal year being audited. Within ten
days of the completion of the audit and its presentation to the city
legislative body, pursuant to division (D)(6) below, each city shall forward
three copies of the audit report to the state’s Department for Local Government
for information purposes. The Department shall forward one copy of the audit
report to the Legislative Research Commission to be used for the purpose of KRS
6.955 through 6.975.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, each city of the sixth class
shall, after the close of each odd-numbered fiscal year, cause each fund of the
city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified public
accountant. The audits shall be completed by February 1 immediately following
the fiscal year to be audited. Within ten days of the completion of the audit
and its presentation to the city legislative body, pursuant to division (D)(6)
below, each sixth class city shall forward three copies of the audit report to
the state’s Department for Local Government for information purposes. The
Department shall forward one copy of the audit report to the Legislative
Research Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 through 6.975.
After the close of each even-numbered fiscal year, each sixth class city shall
prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS 424.220 and immediately
forward one copy to the state’s Department for Local Government. The Department
shall be responsible for forwarding one copy of the financial statement to the
Legislative Research Commission.
   (C)   Any city of the sixth class, which for any fiscal year receives and
expends, from all sources and for all purposes, less than $25,000 and which has
no long-term debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, shall not be
required to audit each fund of the city for that particular fiscal year. Each
city shall annually prepare a financial statement in accordance with KRS
424.220 and immediately forward one copy to the state’s Department for Local
Government for information purposes. The Department shall be responsible for
forwarding one copy of the financial statement to the Legislative Research
Commission to be used for the purposes of KRS 6.955 through 6.975.
   (D)   Each city required by this section to conduct an annual or biannual
audit shall enter into a written contract with the selected auditor. The
contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement which shall
include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor be employed to examine the general purpose financial
statements of all governmental, proprietary and fiduciary funds of the city;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 through 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with
the annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended;
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying the
general purpose financial statements and his or her opinion and statements
relating thereto;
      (5)   The auditor express an overall opinion as to whether the general
purpose financial statements present fairly the financial condition of the city
or state the reasons why an overall opinion cannot be expressed;
      (6)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to The City Council at a regular or special meeting; and
      (7)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the auditor of public accounts upon request of the city or the
auditor of the public accounts, and the auditor of public accounts shall have
the right to review the certified public accountant’s workpapers upon request.
   (E)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 through 6.975.
   (F)   Upon completion of an audit, the city may elect to publish the
auditor’s report in accordance with division (G) below or may publish a
financial statement in accordance with division (H) below. Notwithstanding the
election of divisions (G) or (H) below, the city shall, within 90 days after
the close of the fiscal year, cause to be published in a newspaper qualified
under KRS 424.120 a legal display advertisement of not less than eight column
inches that the statement required by KRS 424.220 has been prepared and that
copies have been provided to each local newspaper of general circulation, each
news service and each local radio or television station which has on file with
the city a written request to be provided such statement.
   (G)   (1)   If the city elects to publish the auditor’s report prepared in
accordance with this section in lieu of the financial statement required by KRS
424.220, it shall publish the auditor’s cover letter to the City Council, the
combined balance sheet showing all fund types and account groups, the combined
statement of revenues, expenditures and changes in fund balance for all
governmental fund types, the combined statement of revenues, expenses and
changes in retained earnings/fund balances for all proprietary fund types and
similar trust funds, and the combined statement of changes in financial
position for all proprietary fund types and similar trust funds in accordance
with KRS Chapter 424.
      (2)   The advertisement shall contain a statement that a copy of the
complete auditor’s report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, are on file at City Hall and are available for public inspection
during normal business hours. The advertisement shall also contain a statement
that any citizen may obtain from City Hall a copy of the complete auditor’s
report, including financial statements and supplemental information, for his or
her personal use. The statement shall notify citizens requesting a personal
copy of the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs
at a rate that shall not exceed $0.25 per page. In addition, the advertisement
shall contain a statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of such statement.
   (H)   If the city, other than a city of the first or second class or urban-
county government, elects to publish the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 in lieu of publishing the auditor’s report, it
shall, within 60 days after the completion of the audit, publish such statement
in accordance with KRS Chapter 424.
   (I)   Any city of the fifth or sixth class may utilize the alternative
publication methods authorized by KRS 424.190(2) to comply with the provisions
of this section.
(KRS 91A.041) (Prior Code, § 33.04)
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050
§ 33.05 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city’s official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies or trust companies
within the commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or surety bonds.
   (B)   All receipts from all sources of city money or money for which the
city is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a
manner authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city
funds shall by disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which
state the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the
payment and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization
shall be numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060) (Prior Code, § 33.05)
§ 33.06 CLAIMS AGAINST CITY.
   Claims are presented to the Clerk-Treasurer who prepares “orders of
Treasurer,” which are read at a regular City Council meeting and acted on by
the City Council. If approved, the Clerk-Treasurer draws a check which is then
signed by two of the following: Clerk-Treasurer, Mayor or a designated City
Council member.
(Prior Code, § 33.06)
§ 33.07 WITHDRAWING FUNDS FROM TREASURY.
   No money shall be drawn from the treasury of the city except by order signed
by the City Clerk-Treasurer, in pursuance of an allowance in appropriation made
by City Council at any regular meeting. However, the Mayor is authorized to
approve recurring expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 33.07) (Ord. 40, passed 9-3-1907)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSED VALUE BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property bears to the
total assessed value of all such properties.
   BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by the City Council of the special benefit
received by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis,
front foot basis and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may
include consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different
classes of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received and
other factors affecting benefits received.
   COST. All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs and publication expenses.
   FAIR BASIS. Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis or
benefits received basis.
   FRONT FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   IMPROVEMENT. Construction of any facility for public use or services or any
addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   PROPERTY. Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT or ASSESSMENT. A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   SQUARE FOOT BASIS. The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210) (Prior Code, § 33.10)
§ 33.21 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
(Prior Code, § 33.11)
§ 33.22 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government or any educational, religious or charitable organization. The City
Council may assess such property in the same manner as for privately-owned
property, or it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230) (Prior Code, § 33.12)
§ 33.23 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessment is provided, the proposed method, including
the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in connection with the
improvements; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments or financing.
(KRS 91A.240) (Prior Code, § 33.13)
§ 33.24 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   (A)   After preparation of the report required by §
33.23 of this code, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the
proposed improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424
and mailed to each affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt
requested and shall include:
      (1)   The nature of the improvement;
      (2)   Description of area of the improvement;
      (3)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in
whole or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
      (4)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
      (5)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250) (Prior Code, § 33.14)
§ 33.25 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.23 of this code and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage,
the city shall publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall
mail by certified mail to each affected property owner a notice of
determination to proceed with the project, the fair basis of assessment to be
utilized, the estimated cost to the property owner and the ratio the cost to
each property owner bears to the total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260) (Prior Code, § 33.15)
§ 33.26 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.25 of this code, any affected property owner may file an action in the
circuit court of the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by
special assessment, the inclusion of his or her property in the improvement or
the amount of his or her assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of
the improvement by the special assessment method of the inclusion of the
property of that property owner, no further action on the improvement, insofar
as it relates to any property owner who is a plaintiff, shall be taken until
the final judgment has been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270) (Prior Code, § 33.16)
§ 33.27 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.26 of this code, or after favorable final judgment in any such action,
whichever comes later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part
thereof stayed by the action, including notice requiring payment of special
assessment or installment thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance
the improvement. The first installment may be apportioned so that other
payments will coincide with payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitute a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the City Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment,
from payment thereof or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280) (Prior Code, § 33.17)
§ 33.28 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.23 through
33.27 of this code applies if additional property is included in the
improvement or if change is made in the method or period of financing; but
additional property may be included in the improvement with the consent of the
owner thereof without compliance with other sections if it does not increase
the cost apportioned to any other property, or another change may be made
without such compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290) (Prior Code, § 33.18)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
33.04 of this code shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500. In
addition, any officer who fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
33.04 of this code shall, for each failure, be subject to a forfeiture of not
less than $50 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the court, which may be
recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any resident of the city. The
costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the
resident bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
(KRS 91A.041) (Prior Code, § 33.04)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.15   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.16   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.17   Public records not immediately available
   
34.18   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.19   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.20   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.21   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.22   Format of copies
   
34.23   Fees for copies
   
34.24   Misstatement of purpose prohibited
   
34.25   Online access to public records in electronic form
   
34.26   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.27   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city government of this city.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSE. The direct or indirect use of any part of a public
record or records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent or lease
of a service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary or fee. COMMERCIAL PURPOSE shall not include:
      (1)   Publication or related use of a public record by a newspaper or
periodical;
      (2)   Use of a public record by a radio or television station in its news
or other informational programs; or
      (3)   Use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   CUSTODIAN. The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The CUSTODIAN having personal custody of
most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   MECHANICAL PROCESSING. Any operation or other procedure which is transacted
on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier, computer,
recorder or tape processor or other automated device.
   MEDIA. The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes and cards.
   OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN. The chief administrative officer or any other officer or
employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care and
keeping of public records, regardless of whether such records are in his or her
actual personal custody and control. The OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN of the city shall
be the Mayor.
   PERSON. A human being who makes a request for inspection of public records.
   PRESCRIBED FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records, which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Every city governmental board, commission and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board and municipal corporation; every city
governmental agency, including the policymaking board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution or other legislative act; any body created by or pursuant
to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution or other
legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a PUBLIC AGENCY,
as defined by this section; a member or employee of a PUBLIC AGENCY, a state or
local officer or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee,
subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or agency, except
for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the
purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency employees,
established, created or controlled by a PUBLIC AGENCY as defined in this
section; an interagency body of two or more public agencies where each PUBLIC
AGENCY is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.870)
   PUBLIC RECORDS. All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, software or other documentation regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of
or retained by the public agency. PUBLIC RECORDS shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.16 of this code.
   REASONABLE FEE or FEE. The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non-exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   REQUEST. An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the agency.
   RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH. Includes:
      (1)   An individual residing in the commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
commonwealth;
      (6)   An individual or business entity that has been authorized to act on
behalf of an individual or business entity defined in divisions (1) through (6)
above; or
      (7)   A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(9)(b)1.a.
through e.
   SOFTWARE.
      (1)   The program code which makes a computer system function but does
not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications or any other mechanism for
controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the public
agency’s computer system.
      (2)   SOFTWARE consists of the operating system, application programs,
procedures, routines and subroutines such as translators and utility programs,
but does not include that material which is prohibited from disclosure or
copying by a license agreement between a public agency and an outside entity
which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.15 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to inspect or copy the public records of
this city shall make a request for inspection at the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer during regular office hours, except during legal holidays.
      (2)   The official custodian, or the custodian acting under the authority
of the official custodian, may require a request to inspect public records to
be in writing, signed by the applicant and with the applicant’s name printed
legibly on the application.
      (3)   A written request to inspect public records may be presented by
hand delivery, mail or via facsimile, if one is available.
   (B)   (1)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in
compliance with this chapter and the Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870 through
61.884, and the requested public records are immediately available, the
custodian shall deliver the records for inspection.
      (2)   A person may inspect public records at the designated office of the
city during the regular office hours, or in appropriate cases, by receiving
copies of the records through the mail.
   (C)   (1)   If the public records are to be inspected at the offices of the
city, suitable facilities shall be made available in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer or in another office of the city as determined by the official
custodian or custodian for the inspection.
      (2)   No person shall remove original copies of public records from the
offices of the city without the written permission of the official custodian of
the record.
      (3)   When public records are inspected at the city offices, the person
inspecting the records shall have the right to make abstracts and memoranda of
the public records and to obtain copies of all written public records. When
copies are requested, the custodian may require advance payment of the
prescribed fee.
   (D)   Upon proper request, the city shall mail copies of the public records
to a person whose residence or principal place of business is located outside
of the county after the person precisely describes the public records which are
readily available and after the person pays in advance the prescribed fee.
(Prior Code, § 34.05)
§ 34.16 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk-Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the official custodian of
the agency’s public records.
(KRS 61.872(4)) (Prior Code, § 34.06)
§ 34.17 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time and date for inspection or mailing of the public
records, not to exceed five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays) from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the
cause is given for further delay and the place, time and earliest date on which
the public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.18 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies thereof. However, refusal under this section must be sustained by
clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.19 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays and
legal holidays) after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision.
   (B)   Any agency response denying, in whole or in part, inspection of any
record shall include a statement of the specific exception authorizing the
withholding of the record and a brief explanation of how the exception applies
to the record withheld. The response shall be issued by the official custodian
or under his or her authority and shall constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880) (Prior Code, § 34.09)
§ 34.20 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any record with
the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 34.10)
§ 34.21 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or her or
in which he or she is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate
identification, subject to the provisions of §
34.26 of this code.
(KRS 61.884) (Prior Code, § 34.11)
§ 34.22 FORMAT OF COPIES.
   (A)   (1)   Upon inspection, the applicant shall have the right to make
abstracts of the public records and memoranda thereof, and to obtain copies of
all public records not exempted by the terms of §
34.26 of this code.
      (2)   When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written
request and advance payment of the prescribed fee, including postage where
appropriate.
      (3)   If the applicant desires copies of public records other than
written records, the custodian of the records shall duplicate the records or
permit the applicant to duplicate the record; however, the custodian shall
ensure that such duplication will not damage or alter the original records.
   (B)   (1)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall
be available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
      (2)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not
less than eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in at least one color on white
paper, or for electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor’s requirements, the public record may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(1) through (3)) (Prior Code, § 34.12)
§ 34.23 FEES FOR COPIES.
   (A)   The public agency may prescribe a reasonable fee for making copies of
nonexempt public records requested for use for noncommercial purposes which
shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of the
media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but not
including the cost of staff required. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may, at its discretion, provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   (B)   (1)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the
disclosure of public record to persons who intend to use them for commercial
purposes, if copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial
purposes, the public agency may establish a reasonable fee.
      (2)   The public agency from which copies of nonexempt public records are
requested for a commercial purpose may require a certified statement from the
requestor stating the commercial purpose for which they shall be used and may
require the requestor to enter into a contract with the agency. The contract
shall permit use of the public records for the stated commercial purpose for a
specified fee.
      (3)   The fee provided for in division (B)(1) above may be based on one
or both of the following:
         (a)   Cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and
staff required to produce a copy of the public record or records; and/or
         (b)   Cost to the public agency of creation, purchase or other
acquisition of the public records.
(KRS 61.874(3), (4)) (Prior Code, § 34.13)
§ 34.24 MISSTATEMENT OF PURPOSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a public
record for a:
   (A)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to §
34.23 of this code;
   (B)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use of
the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
   (C)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical, radio
or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874(5)) (Prior Code, § 34.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.25 ONLINE ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS IN ELECTRONIC FORM.
   (A)   Online access to public records in electronic form may be provided and
made available at the discretion of the public agency. If a party wishes to
access public records by electronic means and the public agency agrees to
provide online access, a public agency may require that the party enter into a
contract, license or other agreement with the agency and may charge fees for
these agreements.
   (B)   Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges; and
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in §
34.23 of this code.
(KRS 61.874(6)) (Prior Code, § 34.15)
§ 34.26 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations and shall be subject to inspection only
upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except as provided in KRS
61.878(1) that no court shall authorize the inspection by any party of any
materials pertaining to civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the
rules of civil procedure governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy;
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute;
      (3)   (a)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially
disclosed to the agency, or required by an agency to be disclosed to it,
generally recognized as confidential or proprietary, which if openly disclosed
would permit an unfair commercial advantage to competitors of the entity that
disclosed the records; and
         (b)   Upon and after July 15, 1992, records confidentially disclosed
to an agency or required by an agency to be disclosed to it, generally
recognized as confidential or proprietary, which are compiled and maintained:
            1.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of a loan or a grant;
            2.   In conjunction with an application for or the administration
of assessments, incentives, inducements and tax credits as described in KRS
Chapter 154;
            3.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            4.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (c)   The exemptions provided for in divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b)
above, shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is
directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business’s
or industry’s interest in locating in, relocating within or expanding within
the commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above;
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions, which
disclose the agency’s internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods;
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision;
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again;
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this division
(A)(8) shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter;
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency;
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended;
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law; and
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.18 of this code.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge or
impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment or an
eligible on a register to inspect and copy any record, including preliminary
and other supporting documentation, that relates to him or her. Such records
shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job performance, demotions,
evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification, reallocation, transfers,
layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores and preliminary and other
supporting documentation. A city employee, applicant or eligible shall not have
the right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to
ongoing criminal or administrative investigations by any agency.
(Prior Code, § 34.16)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provisions under state law, see KRS 61.878
§ 34.27 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the Open
Records Law, KRS 61.870 through 61.884.
(Prior Code, § 34.17)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
35.15   Meetings open to the public
   
35.16   Requirements for closed sessions
   
35.17   Public meeting schedules
   
35.18   Special meetings
   
35.19   Video teleconferences
   
35.20   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTION TAKEN. A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805(3))
   MEETING. All gatherings of every kind, including video teleconferences,
regardless of where the MEETING is held, and whether regular or special and
informational or casual gatherings held in anticipation of or in conjunction
with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805(1))
   MEMBER. A member of the governing body of a public agency. MEMBER does not
include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   PUBLIC AGENCY. Every city government board, commission and authority; every
city council and council board, commission and committee; every school district
board, special district board and municipal corporation; every city government
agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of education
created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance,
resolution or other legislative act; any body created by or pursuant to state
or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution or other legislative
act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any entity when the
majority of its governing body is appointed by a PUBLIC AGENCY, as defined by
this section; a member or employee of a PUBLIC AGENCY, a state or local officer
or any combination thereof; any board, commission, committee, subcommittee, ad
hoc committee, advisory committee, council or agency, except for a committee of
a hospital medical staff or a committee formed for the purpose of evaluating
the qualifications of PUBLIC AGENCY employees, established, created or
controlled by a PUBLIC AGENCY as defined in this section; an interagency body
of two or more public agencies where each PUBLIC AGENCY is defined in this
section.
(KRS 61.805(2))
   VIDEO TELECONFERENCE. One meeting, occurring in two or more locations, where
individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
(Prior Code, § 34A.01)
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 35.15 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline or dismissal of an individual employee, member or student without
restricting that employee’s, member’s or student’s right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his or her
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency’s
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy;
      (9)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
      (10)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(m). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
state’s General Assembly; and
      (11)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee or other
similar group established under KRS Chapter 45A or 56 or other state or local
law, to select a successful bidder for award of a state or local contract.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of division (A) above, shall be subject to the
requirements of division (A) above. Nothing in this division (B) shall be
construed to prohibit discussion between individual members where the purpose
of the discussions is to educate the members on specific issues.
(KRS 61.810) (Prior Code, § 34A.05)
§ 35.16 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
35.15(A)(1) and (A)(4) of this code except as (A)(4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meetings of the general
nature of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the
closed session and the specific provision of §
35.15 of this code authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
   (B)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
35.15(A)(2), (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this code, but only so far as §
35.15(A)(4) of this code relates to students, §
35.15(A)(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8) and (A)(9) of this code are excluded from
the requirements of division (A) above.
(KRS 61.815) (Prior Code, § 34A.06)
§ 35.17 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and places
which are convenient to the public, and all public agencies shall provide for a
schedule of regular meetings by ordinance, order, resolution, bylaws or by
whatever other means may be required for the conduct of business of the public
agency. The schedule of regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820) (Prior Code, § 34A.07)
§ 35.18 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by division (B) below, the following requirements
shall govern special meetings of public agencies.
      (1)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting.
      (2)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special
meeting containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
      (3)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered personally,
transmitted by facsimile or mailed to every member of the public agency as well
as each media organization which has filed a written request, including a
mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice shall be
received at least 24 hours before the special meeting. The public agency may
periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar year, inform media
organizations that they will have to submit a new written request or no longer
receive written notice of special meetings until a new written request is
filed.
      (4)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least 24 hours before the special
meeting.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the
notice requirements in this section, this division (B) shall govern a public
agency’s conduct of a special meeting.
      (2)   The special meeting shall be called pursuant to division (A)(1)
above. The public agency shall make a reasonable effort, under emergency
circumstances, to notify the members of the agency, media organizations which
have filed a written request pursuant to this section and the public of the
emergency meeting.
      (3)   At the beginning of the emergency meeting, the person chairing the
meeting shall briefly describe for the record the emergency circumstances
preventing compliance with the notice requirements of this section. These
comments shall appear in the minutes. Discussion and action at the emergency
meeting shall be limited to the emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823) (Prior Code, § 34A.08)
§ 35.19 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting, other than a closed session,
through video teleconference.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference shall:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements of KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as
appropriate;
      (2)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference;
      (3)   Provide specific information on how any member of the public or
media organization may vew the meeting electronically; and
      (4)   In any case where the public agency has elected to provide a
physical location, or in any circumstance where two or more members of the
public agency are attending a video teleconference meeting from the same
physical location, precisely identify a primary physical location of the video
teleconference where all members can be seen and heard and the public may
attend in accordance with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
   (E)   If a regular meeting is changed to a video conference, the meeting
shall remain a regular meeting if the meeting occurs on the same date and time
as originally scheduled and the public agency follows the provisions of KRS
61.823(4) to provide a notice that meets the requirements of divisions (B)(2)
through (B)(4) above.
(KRS 61.826) (Prior Code, § 34A.09)
§ 35.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 through 61.850.
(Prior Code, § 34A.10)
CHAPTER 36: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Other Organizations
   
36.001   Board of Ethics
Police Department
   
36.015   Establishment of Department
   
36.016   Chief of Police
   
36.017   Police officers
   
36.018   Part-time police officers; compensation
   
36.019   Collection of fees by officers
Volunteer Fire Department
   
36.030   Chief of Volunteer Fire Department
   
36.031   Unauthorized entry onto fire engines
   
36.032   Loitering around fire house
   
36.033   Public safety service user fees
Municipal Planning Commission
   
36.045   Establishment; jurisdiction
   
36.046   Membership; organization
   
36.047   Officers and staff
   
36.048   Meetings
   
36.049   Bylaws
   
36.050   Powers and duties
Waterworks Commission
   
36.065   Establishment
   
36.066   Membership; appointment
   
36.067   Terms; vacancy; removal
   
36.068   Compensation
   
36.069   Oath of duty
   
36.070   Control, operation and maintenance of waterworks plant
   
36.071   Reports; funds
   
36.072   Bonds
Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission
   
36.085   Establishment
   
36.086   Composition and appointment
   
36.087   Qualifications and terms
   
36.088   Compensation
   
36.089   Organization
   
36.090   Duties
Code Enforcement Board
   
36.105   Purpose
   
36.106   Powers
   
36.107   Board membership
   
36.108   Meetings; organization of Board
   
36.109   Enforcement proceedings
   
36.110   Hearing, notice and final order
   
36.111   Appeals
   
36.112   Ordinance civil fine schedule
   
36.113   Liens, fines, charges and fees
   
36.114   Civil remedies
   
36.115   State statutes adopted by reference
OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
§ 36.001 BOARD OF ETHICS.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Ethics, see §§
39.070 through
39.080 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 36.35)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.015 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby created a Police Department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 157, passed 1-4-1939)
§ 36.016 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The full-time position office of Police Chief of the city is hereby
created.
   (B)   Said office shall be filled by appointment of the Mayor; City Council
approval is not required.
   (C)   Said officer shall be a resident of the county, at least 21 years of
age, a high school graduate and the other qualifications required by KRS
95.440.
   (D)   Said officer shall take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Constitution of the state within 30 days after receiving notification of
appointment and the oath of office shall also comply with KRS 62.040 and
95.440.
   (E)   Subject to the direction and the ultimate authority of the Mayor, the
Police Chief shall see that all city criminal and traffic ordinances and other
criminal laws are enforced within the city; shall cause law violators to be
arrested and delivered to the appropriate court or judge or place of
confinement; shall cause traffic-control signs, permanent or temporary, to be
placed where needed; plan, organize, direct, coordinate and evaluate the
activities and programs of the Police Department; formulate departmental
policies and procedures, rules and regulations following consultation with
higher authority and subordinate officers; develop organizational structure of
the Department in accordance with professional standards and City Council
policy; prepare and authorize work schedules; furnish technical advice on
police problems; maintain constant surveillance of criminal and traffic reports
in addition to activity reports; initiate corrective action when and where
necessarily indicated; supervise and evaluate the use of police equipment;
instruct, discipline and evaluate Department personnel; review and recommend
acceptable standards and procedures for the recruitment, selection, promotion
and training of departmental personnel; prepare purchase requisition of
supplies and equipment for the Department; confer with representatives of
federal, state and local agencies on various police programs; prepare memoranda
and reports on activities of the Department, orally and in writing and
supervise others in the preparation of reports; receive complaints from the
general public; study and review all laws, official opinions and guidelines;
maintain a proper record system pertaining to citations; arrests and
investigations; participate in approved law enforcement courses and schedule
subordinates for such training; represent the Department as needed; develop and
conduct an effective public relations program; and to perform such other duties
as may be required by Mayor or City Council. Other powers and authorities are
set out in KRS 95.019.
   (F)   The annual salary of Police Chief shall be established by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 35.02) (Ord. 429, passed 4-26-1982; Ord. 449, passed 3-6-1984;
Ord. 516, passed 2-6-1990)
§ 36.017 POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The position of police officer for the city is hereby created.
   (B)   Said officer shall be a resident of the county, at least 21 years of
age and a high school graduate.
   (C)   Said officer shall take the oath of office prescribed by § 228 of the
Constitution of the state within 30 days after receiving notification of
appointment and the oath of office shall also comply with KRS 62.040 and
Chapter 95.
   (D)   The annual salary of police officer shall be as established by
ordinance.
   (E)   The Mayor may appoint special or extra police. These special or extra
police, appointed for less than one week, shall take the oath prescribed by
law, but shall not be required to execute bond.
(Prior Code, § 35.03) (Ord. 430, passed 4-26-1982; Ord. 449, passed 3-6-1984;
Ord. 516, passed 2-6-1990)
§ 36.018 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS; COMPENSATION.
   The position of part-time police officer shall be an employee position. The
salary of said part-time police officers of the city shall be established by
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 35.04) (Ord. 516, passed 2-6-1990)
§ 36.019 COLLECTION OF FEES BY OFFICERS.
   (A)   The officers of the city’s Police Department may collect the same fee
as the County Sheriff for execution of warrants of arrest, service of
processes, subpoenas and attachments, pursuant to KRS Chapter 95.
   (B)   All fees collected from such service shall be paid into the General
Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 555, passed 9-7-1993)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 36.030 CHIEF OF VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The part-time nonelected office of Chief of the Volunteer Fire
Department is hereby created.
   (B)   Said office shall be filled by nomination by the Mayor with the
concurrence of the City Council.
   (C)   The term of said office shall be two years beginning on the first
Monday in January of each even-numbered year and until a successor is appointed
and qualified.
   (D)   Said officer shall be a resident of the county.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department to
manage and operate the Volunteer Fire Department and see that fires within the
city are fought as promptly and properly as reasonably possible; assign duties
to members of the Department; see that fire school and training practices are
conducted; together with the Police Chief to see that traffic is controlled in
the vicinity of a fire; see that equipment provided for the Department is
properly maintained; and to recommend to the Mayor the purchase of such
firefighting equipment as he or she deems necessary or advisable.
   (F)   (1)   The Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department shall receive $500
per year for expenses in lieu of salary.
      (2)   Compensation shall be paid annually unless there is a change of
personnel in the position of Fire Chief. If a change should occur, compensation
shall, at that time, be prorated and paid appropriately.
   (G)   After the Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department serves the first year
of the appointed term, and upon recommendation of the Mayor and approval of the
City Council, the amount he or she shall receive may be increased by an amount
up to $200 per month. This amount would be in lieu of the amount provided in
division (F) above. Upon the appointment of a new Chief of the Volunteer Fire
Department, the amount to be received for expenses shall revert to the amount
provided in division (F) above.
(Prior Code, § 35.15) (Ord. 433, passed 4-26-1982; Ord. 491, passed 4-6-1988;
Ord. 576, passed 1-9-1995; Ord. 654, passed 8-2-2005; Ord. 688, passed 10-5-
2010)
§ 36.031 UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY ONTO FIRE ENGINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mount, climb or get upon the fire
engine of the city, other than the members of the fire crew or of those in
charge of said engine, while said engine is being operated at, to or from any
fire in the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.16) (Ord. 162, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.032 LOITERING AROUND FIRE HOUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the officials of the city or
members of the Fire Department of the city to enter into or loiter in the fire
engine room of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.17) (Ord. 163, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 36.033 PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICE USER FEES.
   (A)   The city’s Volunteer Fire Department shall initiate user fees for the
delivery of Department services, personnel, supplies and equipment to the scene
of motor vehicle accidents. The rate of the user fees shall be that which is
the usual, customary and reasonable costs (UCR), which includes any services,
personnel, supplies and equipment and may fluctuate based on the needs of the
accident.
   (B)   The user fees shall be initially filed to the motor vehicle insurance,
representing an add-on-cost for the claim for damages of the vehicles, property
and/or injuries. The claim costs shall be filed to the insurance company, the
owner of a vehicle, owner of property or other responsible parties.
   (C)   The City Clerk-Treasurer may make rules or regulations, and from time
to time may amend, revoke or add rules and regulations, not consistent with
this section as they may deem necessary or expedient in respect to billing for
these fees or the collection thereof.
   (D)   It is found and determined that all formal actions of this City
Council concerning and relating to the adoption of this section were adopted in
open meetings of this City Council, and that all deliberations of this City
Council and any of its committees that resulted in such formal actions were in
compliance with all legal requirements and the codified ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 671, passed 10-9-2007)
MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 36.045 ESTABLISHMENT; JURISDICTION.
   This Commission shall be known as the Planning Commission. Upon the
appointment and subsequent approval of members, election of officers and
adoption of its bylaws, its existence shall begin subject to the provisions of
KRS Chapter 100. The Commission may engage in planning operations within its
jurisdiction which shall be coterminous with its political boundary except
where otherwise provided for by KRS Chapter 100.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 304, passed 12-6-1966)
§ 36.046 MEMBERSHIP; ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members. The Mayor,
with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint all members. At least two-
thirds of these members shall be citizen members who are not elected officials,
appointed officials or public employees. One-third of the members may be
members of city government or public employees.
   (B)   All government members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation, but reimbursement of expenses may be authorized.
   (C)   The term of office of government members shall correspond to their
respective official tenure. The term of office of citizen members shall be four
years, except that original terms shall be staggered so that a proportionate
number serve one, two, three and four years respectively.
   (D)   Reappointment or appointments to fill vacancies shall continue the
staggered pattern. All vacancies whether by resignation, dismissal or
expiration of the term of office shall be filled by the appropriate appointing
authority or as otherwise provided for in KRS 100.147.
   (E)   The oath of office shall be administered to all members of the
Commission before entering upon their duties. The oath shall be administered as
provided by law. Any member may be removed by the appropriate appointing
authority for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance or conflict of
interest. The removed member shall have the right of appeal in the manner
prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 304, passed 12-6-1966; Ord. 307, passed 3-7-1967;
Ord. 396, passed 4-3-1979)
§ 36.047 OFFICERS AND STAFF.
   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and any other officers
which it deems necessary from among its citizen members. The term of office
shall be one year with eligibility for re-election. The Commission may employ a
staff as it may deem necessary for its work and may contract with professional
planners and other parties for such services.
(Prior Code, § 36.03) (Ord. 304, passed 12-6-1966)
§ 36.048 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall conduct each year at least six regular
meetings for the transaction of its business. The bylaws adopted by the
Planning Commission shall reflect the schedule of regular meetings; the manner
in which notice shall be given; date, time, place and the subject or subjects
to be discussed; as well as the method of calling and conducting special
meetings.
   (B)   A simple majority of that quorum has been established, a simple
majority of that quorum can transact any official business except in those
instances where there is to be an adoption or amendment of the Planning
Commission’s bylaws or elements of the Comprehensive Plan or regulations, then
a vote of the simple majority of the total membership shall be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 304, passed 12-6-1966)
§ 36.049 BYLAWS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall adopt and approve its bylaws before it
may properly transact any business.
   (B)   The bylaws shall set forth the procedures, rules and regulations
necessary for the Commission to conduct its business. The bylaws shall describe
the method for administration of funds and provide for an annual audit thereof.
(Prior Code, § 36.05) (Ord. 304, passed 12-6-1966)
§ 36.050 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have general powers necessary to carry out its
functions in accordance with this subchapter and KRS Chapter 100. The
Commission may be assigned any powers, duties and functions related to urban
renewal or public housing by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 36.06) (Ord. 304, passed 12-6-1966)
WATERWORKS COMMISSION
§ 36.065 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For the purpose of controlling and operating the waterworks plant, there is
hereby created what is called a Waterworks Commission.
(Prior Code, § 36.20) (Ord. 132, passed 11-5-1934)
§ 36.066 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Waterworks Commission shall consist of five members, two of which
shall be members of the City Council, and three shall be suitable persons,
residents and legal voters of the city, and possess the same qualifications as
a member of the City Council.
   (B)   The Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to approval of
the members of the City Council. The Commission shall have the power to select
its own Chairperson and other officers and such employees as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 36.21) (Ord. 132, passed 11-5-1934)
§ 36.067 TERMS; VACANCY; REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   The Waterworks Commission shall serve as follows: One member
appointed from the City Council shall serve one year from the date of his or
her appointment and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
      (2)   The second member appointed from the City Council shall serve two
years from the date of his or her appointment and until his or her successor is
appointed and qualified, and the other three members shall serve four years
from the date of their appointment and until their successors are appointed and
qualified.
   (B)   In the event of a vacancy in said Waterworks Commission, it shall be
filled by appointment by the Mayor with consent of the majority of the members
of the City Council.
   (C)   Any member of said Commission may be removed by the City Council for
neglect of duty or any causes which may render him or her unsuitable in the
discharge of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 36.22) (Ord. 132, passed 11-5-1934)
§ 36.068 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Waterworks Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 36.23) (Ord. 132, passed 11-5-1934)
§ 36.069 OATH OF DUTY.
   The members of the Waterworks Commission shall qualify by taking oath to
faithfully discharge their duties as such, and their acceptance of said
appointment and qualification shall be a consent upon their part to serve
without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 36.24) (Ord. 132, passed 11-5-1934)
§ 36.070 CONTROL, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF WATERWORKS PLANT.
   (A)   The Waterworks Commission so created by this subchapter shall have the
control of said waterworks plant in its operation, physical management and
regulation of rates and in every other respect subject to the requirements and
regulations now in force or may be put in force by the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation.
   (B)   The city waterworks were built by funds furnished by the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation in 1933, upon certain conditions and
requirements as to the fixing of rates, collecting the meter rentals and
compensation for water service, and providing that a fund shall be set aside
for the purpose of meeting the interest on bonds and the retiring of same.
   (C)   The Commission shall operate said waterworks plant in accordance with
the provisions of the contract and bonds entered into by the City Council and
the Reconstruction Finance Corporation.
   (D)   This Commission is authorized to fix reasonable rates in excess of the
amount of money necessary to pay the interest on the bonds and retire the same
for the purpose of making repairs and providing for any other necessary
operating expense of said waterworks plant. Any rates established by this
Commission shall be in conformity to the laws of the commonwealth and the
United States of America.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of said Commission to keep the waterworks plant
in repair and good working order and provide against any emergency that may
arise.
(Prior Code, § 36.25) (Ord. 132, passed 11-5-1934)
§ 36.071 REPORTS; FUNDS.
   The Waterworks Commission shall furnish to the City Council on the first
Monday in June and first Monday in December each year, a report showing
financial condition of said plant and detailed statement of its receipts and
expenditures; of additions and repairs that have been made thereto; and amount
of funds on hand. The money received from any source shall be deposited in a
good and solvent bank or bank and trust company in the state, as may be
designated by the City Council, and disbursed as provided by the Waterworks
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 36.26) (Ord. 132, passed 11-5-1934)
§ 36.072 BONDS.
   The Waterworks Commission will require bond or bonds from all persons,
depository or depositories holding or into whose custody come any funds of said
business or from said water plant, in sufficient amount to protect the same,
the premium on said bond or bonds to be paid by the revenue of the city’s
Waterworks Fund. Said Commission shall do any and all things necessary for a
proper and safe and successful operation of said waterworks plant.
(Prior Code, § 36.27) (Ord. 132, passed 11-5-1934)
PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 36.085 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of KRS 97.010, there is hereby established the
Community Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission. The Commission shall be
possessed with all the powers and duties of KRS 97.010 through 97.050.
(Ord. 636, passed 4-2-2002)
§ 36.086 COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The county’s Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission shall be
composed of a minimum of nine members and a maximum of 14. Two shall be
appointed by the fiscal court, two shall be appointed by the city, two shall be
appointed by the county’s School Board and one each shall be appointed by the
Cities of Monterey and Gratz. The county’s Chamber of Commerce shall have one
appointment for a one-year term. Also, the county’s Little League Baseball
Board and the county’s Soccer Board shall have one appointment for a one-year
term.
   (B)   The County Judge/Executive and the Mayor shall serve as Chairperson
and Vice Chairperson of the Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission on an
ex-officio basis. These positions will also be on a yearly, rotating basis.
   (C)   (1)   Appointments shall be made effective July 1 of each year, except
the original terms shall be staggered.
      (2)   New appointments, re-appointments or appointments to fill vacancies
shall be made so as to continue the staggered pattern.
   (D)   (1)   Initial appointments shall be made as follows:
City of Gratz             1 appointment  1 to serve a 2-year term
City of Monterey          1 appointment  1 to serve a 2-year term
City of Owenton           2 appointments 1 to serve a 1-year term
                                       1 to serve a 3-year term
Owen County Chamber       1 appointment  1 to serve a 1-year term
Owen County Fiscal Court  2 appointments 1 to serve a 1-year term
Owen County Little League 1 appointment  1 to serve a 1-year term
Owen County School Board  2 appointments 1 to serve a 2-year term
                                       1 to serve a 3-year term
Owen County Soccer League 1 appointment  1 to serve a 1-year term
 
      (2)   The groups with two appointments shall designate which of the
respective two appointees shall initially serve one- and three-year terms.
      (3)   The Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission may appoint up to
three at large members to reach the maximum of 14 members.
(Ord. 636, passed 4-2-2002)
§ 36.087 QUALIFICATIONS AND TERMS.
   (A)   Each person appointed to the county’s Parks, Playgrounds and
Recreation Commission shall be at least 21 years of age and shall be a bona
fide resident of the city or county he or she represents for at least one year
preceding the appointment.
   (B)   Vacancies on the Parks, Playgrounds, and Recreation Commission shall
be filled for unexpired terms by appointment of the authority appointing the
member whose office is vacant.
   (C)   When a vacancy occurs other than through expiration of the term of
office, it shall be filled for the remained of that term.
(Ord. 636, passed 4-2-2002)
§ 36.088 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the county’s Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission
shall serve without compensation, but reimbursement of the necessary expenses
incurred by the members of the Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission in
the performance of their duties is authorized.
(Ord. 636, passed 4-2-2002)
§ 36.089 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission shall be a body
corporate for all purposes and shall elect from its membership a Secretary and
Treasurer.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall execute a bond conditioned on the faithful
performance of the Treasurer’s duties sufficient in amount to cover funds
coming into the Treasurer’s hands.
   (C)   The premium of such bond shall be paid from Parks, Playgrounds and
Recreation Commission funds.
(Ord. 636, passed 4-2-2002)
§ 36.090 DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission shall organize
and implement a comprehensive county-wide park, playground and recreation
program for the benefit of all residents of the County.
      (2)   The Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission shall have the
authority to make all rules and regulations as may be necessary for the
establishment of the program. It shall prepare and file on or before April 1 of
each year a proposed budget for consideration by the cities and county-
appointed authorities and an annual report detailing its activities for the
appointing authorities.
      (3)   The records of the Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission
shall be audited by an independent auditor who shall make a report to the
Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission and to the supporting authorities
no later than October 1 of each year.
   (B)   The Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission shall be responsible
for hiring a full-time Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Director for the
purposed of administering and managing the day-to-day operations of the Parks,
Playgrounds and Recreation Commission.
   (C)   (1)   The Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission shall be
authorized to receive and disburse monies for such purposes as in the
discretion of the Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission may be necessary
or for the benefit of, or for the operation and administration of the
recreation program.
      (2)   The Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission may employ such
personnel and make such contracts as necessary to effectively carry out the
purposes of KRS Chapter 97.
      (3)   The Parks, Playgrounds and Recreation Commission shall also be able
to receive private donations.
(Ord. 636, passed 4-2-2002)
CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD
§ 36.105 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to create the city’s Code Enforcement
Board that shall have the power to issue remedial orders and impose civil fines
when a violation of an ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
(Ord. 681, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 36.106 POWERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created the city’s Code Enforcement Board, which shall
have all powers and duties granted pursuant to KRS 65.8801 through 65.8839 and
related statutes, and all powers and duties granted in this subchapter and
related ordinances.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Board shall have the power to issue remedial
orders and impose civil fines as a method of enforcing city ordinances when a
violation of the ordinance has been classified as a civil offense.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Board shall also have the following powers:
      (1)   To adopt rules and regulations to govern its operations and the
conduct of its hearings;
      (2)   To conduct hearings to determine if there has been a violation of
an ordinance over which it has jurisdiction;
      (3)   To subpoena alleged violators, witnesses and evidence to its
hearings (subpoenas issued by the Code Enforcement Board may be served by any
code enforcement officer or as otherwise provided in the state’s rules of civil
procedure);
      (4)   To take testimony under oath; and
      (5)   To make findings of fact and issue orders necessary to remedy any
violation of a city ordinance or code provision which the Code Enforcement
Board is authorized to enforce.
   (D)   All police officers of the city shall be designated as code
enforcement officers.
(Ord. 681, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 36.107 BOARD MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The city’s Code Enforcement Board shall consist of five members and
two alternates appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council.
   (B)   The terms of the members and alternate members of the Board shall be
for two years. However, the terms of the initial board members and alternate
members shall be staggered as follows:
      (1)   One member shall be appointed for a term of one year;
      (2)   Two members shall be appointed for a term of two years;
      (3)   Two members shall be appointed for a term of three years; and
      (4)   Each alternate member shall be appointed for a term of two years.
   (C)   Membership requirements, vacancies, removal and oaths of members shall
be as required by statute. Code Enforcement Board members must take the oath of
office prescribed in § 228 of the Constitution of the state and as required by
KRS 65.8811.
   (D)   The City Council may provide compensation, reimbursement for expenses
and education of members as it may, from time to time, order.
   (E)   A Board member may be removed from office by the executive authority
for misconduct, inefficiency or willful neglect of duty.
   (F)   No member of the Code Enforcement Board may hold any elected or
nonelected office, paid or unpaid or any position of employment with the city.
(Ord. 681, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 36.108 MEETINGS; ORGANIZATION OF BOARD.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Board meetings shall be held as necessary to
enforce all civil offenses.
      (2)   The Mayor may assign a monthly date and time for the Code
Enforcement Board to meet on a routine basis, or meetings may be scheduled as
required by the business of the Code Enforcement Board.
   (B)   Organization of the Board.
      (1)   The Mayor shall appoint a Chairperson for the Code Enforcement
Board. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member
of the Code Enforcement Board.
      (2)   An affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum of the Code
Enforcement Board shall be necessary for any official action to be taken.
      (3)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Code Enforcement
Board and the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Code Enforcement
Board shall be recorded in the minutes.
(Ord. 681, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 36.109 ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   The following requirements shall govern all enforcement proceedings before
the Code Enforcement Board:
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings before the Code Enforcement Board shall only
be initiated by the issuance of a citation by a code enforcement officer.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) below, if a code enforcement
officer believes, based on his or her personal observation or investigation,
that a person has violated a city ordinance or code provision, such code
enforcement officer is authorized to issue a citation to the offender.
      (2)   Additionally, the code enforcement officer may issue a notice of
violation to the offender allowing the offender a specified period to remedy
the violation without fine or sanction. If the offender fails or refuses to
remedy the violation within the time specified, the code enforcement officer is
authorized to issue a citation.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from taking
immediate action to remedy a violation of its ordinances or codes when there is
reason to believe that the violation presents a serious threat to the public
health, safety and welfare or, if in the absence of immediate action, the
effects of the violation will be irreparable or irreversible.
   (D)   The citation issued by the code enforcement officer shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The date and time of the issuance;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the offence was committed or discovered;
      (4)   Brief facts constituting the offense;
      (5)   The section of the code or ordinance number violated;
      (6)   The name of the code enforcement officer;
      (7)   The civil fine that will be imposed for the violation if the person
does not contest the violation;
      (8)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed if the person elects to
contest the citation;
      (9)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or contest the citation, within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing before the Code of
Enforcement Board to contest the citation and that the determination that the
violation was committed shall be final.
   (E)   After issuing a citation to an alleged violator, the code enforcement
officer shall notify the Code Enforcement Board and the city by delivering a
copy of the citation to the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (F)   The person to whom the citation is issued shall respond to the
citation within seven days of the date of issuance by either paying the civil
fine or requesting, in writing, a hearing before the Board to contest the
citation. The request for a hearing shall be delivered to the City
Administrator’s office. The request shall include name and address of the
person requesting the hearing so that the city may notify the person of a
hearing. If the person fails to respond to the citation within seven days, the
person shall be deemed to have waived the right to a hearing and the
determination that a violation was committed shall be considered final.
   (G)   If the alleged violator does not contest the citation within the time
prescribed, the Code Enforcement Board shall enter a final order determining
that the violation was committed and shall impose the appropriate civil fine
set forth for such violation. A copy of the final order shall be served on the
person found in violation of a city code or ordinance.
(Ord. 681, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 36.110 HEARING, NOTICE AND FINAL ORDER.
   (A)   When a hearing has been requested, the Code Enforcement Board shall
schedule a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted within 60 days of the
receipt of the request for the hearing.
   (B)   The person requesting the hearing shall be notified, not less than
seven days before the date set for the hearing, of the time, date and place of
such hearing.
   (C)   Failure to appear at the hearing may result in a default against the
person requesting the hearing.
   (D)   All testimony shall be taken under oath. Formal rules of evidence do
not apply. The Code Enforcement Board shall receive only relevant and material
evidence. All evidence received shall be given such weight as the Code
Enforcement Board deems it is entitled after consideration of any objections
that may be made. The Code Enforcement Board shall receive such evidence that a
reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support a conclusion.
   (E)   The hearing shall be recorded. A request for a copy of the recording
of the hearing must be made in writing. The requesting party must pay a
reasonable fee for the recording as determined by the City Administrator’s
office. The Board has no obligation to preserve the recordings beyond 30 days
of the hearing date.
   (F)   The Code Enforcement Board shall, based on the evidence, determine
whether a violation has occurred. If it is determined that no violation has
occurred, an order dismissing the citation shall be entered. If it determines
that a violation was committed, an order shall be issued upholding the citation
imposing the appropriate fine and/or remedy for the violation.
   (G)   Every final order for the Code Enforcement Board shall be reduced to
writing and include the date the order was issued. A copy shall be furnished to
the person named in the citation. If the person named in the citation is not
present when the final order is issued, the order shall be delivered to the
violator at the address indicated in the request for a hearing.
(Ord. 681, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 36.111 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal from any final order of the Code Enforcement Board may be
made to the County District Court within 30 days of the date the order is
issued. The appeal shall be initiated by the filing of a complaint and a copy
of the Code Enforcement Board’s order in the same manner as any civil action
under the state’s rules of civil procedure.
   (B)   If no appeal from a final order of the Code Enforcement Board is filed
within the time period set forth in division (A) above, the Board’s order shall
be deemed final.
(Ord. 681, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 36.112 ORDINANCE CIVIL FINE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Violation of ordinances that are enforced by the city code enforcement
officer and Code Enforcement Board shall be subject to the following schedule
of civil fines:
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation                                   1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Property maintenance nuisances:
   Nonstructural violations              $50         $100        $200
   Structural violations                 $75         $150        $300
Stormwater:
   Erosion prevention and sediment contro$250        $500        $1,000
   Illicit discharge                     $500        $1,000      $2,000
   Post-construction BMP maintenance     $250        $500        $1,000
Zoning ordinance/subdivision violations:
   Sign violations                       $50         $100        $200
   Use violations                        $100        $200        $300
   Violation of development review       $100        $200        $300
procedures
   Violation of general development      $100        $200        $300
standards
   Violation of Overlay District procedur$250        $500        $750
   Yard/dimension violations             $50         $100        $200
 
   (B)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board is required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the
discretion of the Code Enforcement Board:
Violation 1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Violation                                   1st Offense 2nd Offense All Others
Property maintenance nuisances:
   Nonstructural violations              $100        $200        $400
   Structural violations                 $150        $300        $600
Stormwater:
   Erosion prevention and sediment contro$500        $1,000      $2,000
   Illicit discharge                     $1,000      $2,000      $4,000
   Post-construction BMP maintenance     $500        $1,000      $2,000
Zoning ordinance/subdivision violations:
   Sign violations                       $100        $200        $400
   Use violations                        $200        $400        $600
   Violation of development review       $200        $400        $600
procedures
   Violation of general development      $200        $400        $600
standards
   Violation of Overlay District procedur$500        $1,000      $1,150
   Yard/dimension violations             $100        $200        $400
 
   (C)   Each section of a code or ordinance violated shall be considered a
separate finable offense. If two or more sections of a code or ordinance are
violated, the fines shall be cumulative and be enforced under the same
citation. Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate offense
upon issuance of a separate citation, provided that upon the issuance of the
fifteenth citation for the same violation, each day that the violation
continues thereafter shall be considered a separate offense without the need
for the issuance of any additional citations.
   (D)   The Code Enforcement Board is hereby authorized and directed to
determine within the bylaws and rules and procedures a civil penalty schedule
within the civil penalty ranges shown in divisions (A) and (B) above.
(Ord. 681, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 36.113 LIENS, FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may, pursuant to KRS 65.8835, possess a lien on property
owned by the persons found by a final, non-appealable order of the Board or by
a final judgment of a court of law if the Code Enforcement Board’s decision has
been appealed, to have committed a violation for all fines assessed for the
violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection with
the enforcement.
   (B)   The lien may be recorded in the office of the County Clerk. The lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest at the legal rate until paid.
   (C)   The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except
state, county, school board and city taxes and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings.
(Ord. 681, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 36.114 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   In addition to the imposition of a lien, the city may institute other civil
action and seek an injunction or monetary damages to enforce its ordinances and
collect the debts arising from the fines imposed by the Code Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 681, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 36.115 STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All of the terms, conditions and procedures of KRS 65.8801 through 65.8839
relating to the organization and powers of the Code Enforcement Board
enforcement, procedure appeals and other matters are hereby adopted by the city
and incorporated herein by reference, as if fully written.
(Ord. 681, passed 5-12-2009)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
37.01   Conformance
   
37.02   Assessment of ad valorem taxes
   
37.03   Adoption of county assessment
   
37.04   Assessment date
   
37.05   Time of levy
   
37.06   Tax book; Tax Assessor
   
37.07   Omitted property
   
37.08   Tax Collector designated
   
37.09   Due date
   
37.10   Discount
   
37.11   Prepayment
   
37.12   Delinquent date
   
37.13   Penalty and interest
   
37.14   Receipts
   
37.15   Liability of and between various persons
   
37.16   Payment by another at owner’s request
   
37.17   Concealment or removal of property
Enforcement of Collection
   
37.30   Conformance
   
37.31   Liens
   
37.32   Methods of enforcement
   
37.33   Distraint
   
37.34   Personal liability
   
37.35   Suit to enforce lien
   
37.36   Sale of tax claims
   
37.37   Exonerations
   
37.38   Advertisement of sale
   
37.39   Conduct of sale
   
37.40   Report of sale
   
37.41   Redemption
   
37.42   Annual settlement
Abandoned and Blighted Urban Properties Tax
   
37.60   Abandoned and blighted urban property classified as real property
   
37.61   Rate of taxation
Cross-reference:
   Finance and revenue, see
Chapter 33
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.01 CONFORMANCE.
   Except when otherwise specified by statute or ordinance, the assessment
procedure shall be in conformity with the laws regulating the duties of the
Property Valuation Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 37.01) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.02 ASSESSMENT OF AD VALOREM TAXES.
   (A)   All real and personal property having a taxable situs within the
corporate limits of the city, and all personal property except such tangible
personal property as has an actual and bona fide situs outside the city, of
persons domiciled or actually residing in the city on the assessment date and
of all corporations having their chief office or place of business in the city
on that date, and all franchises of same, shall be subject to assessment and ad
valorem taxation for city purposes, unless exempt from taxation by the
Constitution or statutes of the state, or pursuant thereto.
   (B)   Any franchise granted in whole or in part by the city and exercised
within the city may be taxed notwithstanding the corporation owning or
exercising the same may have its chief office or place of business elsewhere.
(Prior Code, § 37.02) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.03 ADOPTION OF COUNTY ASSESSMENT.
   Pursuant to KRS 132.285, it is elected to use hereafter the annual
assessments for the county, for property situated within the city as a basis of
ad valorem tax levies hereafter ordered by the City Council, as supervised and
corrected by the county’s Board of Supervisors.
(Prior Code, § 37.03) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.04 ASSESSMENT DATE.
   The assessment date shall be January 1 of the year for which the tax is
levied.
(Prior Code, § 37.04) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.05 TIME OF LEVY.
   The City Council shall, at the first meeting following final certification
of the county assessment, or as soon thereafter as practicable, adopt a tax
levy ordinance for that year.
(Prior Code, § 37.05) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.06 TAX BOOK; TAX ASSESSOR.
   (A)   The Tax Assessor, who may be the Property Valuation Administrator as
from time to time determined by the City Council, shall, as soon as practicable
after final certification of the county assessment and adoption of the tax levy
ordinance, prepare the tax book for that year from the Property Valuation
Administrator’s books.
   (B)   The Assessor may administer all oaths necessary in the performance of
his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 37.06) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.07 OMITTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any property which has not been listed for taxation for any year in
which it is taxable, by the time the county’s Board of Supervisors completes
its work for that year, shall be deemed omitted property.
   (B)   Omitted property may be assessed retroactively within five years from
the date when it becomes omitted, but the lien thereby accruing on any such
property, except real property, shall not prejudice the rights of bona fide
purchasers required in the meantime.
   (C)   Penalties and interest shall be applied to omitted property as if it
had been originally assessed.
(Prior Code, § 37.07) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.08 TAX COLLECTOR DESIGNATED.
   The City Council shall from time to time designate the collector of city ad
valorem taxes.
(Prior Code, § 37.08) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.09 DUE DATE.
   All ad valorem taxes shall be due and payable on dates established by City
Council prior to issue.
(Prior Code, § 37.09) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.10 DISCOUNT.
   The Tax Collector may allow a discount as provided by ordinance or a motion
of the City Council and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 37.10) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.11 PREPAYMENT.
   The acceptance and depositing of any payment on taxes made before liability
is finally determined, or before the taxpayer is notified, shall not imply that
the amount of payment is correct, nor preclude assessment and collection of
additional taxes found to be due, or refund of any part of the amount paid that
may be in excess of the amount determined to be due.
(Prior Code, § 37.11) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.12 DELINQUENT DATE.
   (A)   Taxes not paid shall become delinquent on January 1 following the due
date.
   (B)   In case of an emergency, generally throughout the city, the City
Council may extend the delinquent date for not less than 30 nor more than 90
days.
(Prior Code, § 37.12) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.13 PENALTY AND INTEREST.
   (A)   Any taxes which are not paid by the date when they become delinquent
shall be subject to a penalty of 6% on the taxes due and unpaid; except that
taxes which become delinquent on January 1 shall be subject to a penalty of
only 2% on the taxes due and unpaid if paid on or before January 31.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 12% from date of
delinquency until paid.
(Prior Code, § 37.13) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967; Ord. 622, passed 10-12-1999)
§ 37.14 RECEIPTS.
   The Tax Collector shall issue receipts for all payments received by him or
her.
(Prior Code, § 37.14) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.15 LIABILITY OF AND BETWEEN VARIOUS PERSONS.
   (A)   The holder of the legal title, the holder of the equitable title and
the claimant or bailee in possession of the property on the assessment date
shall be liable for taxes thereon, but as between themselves, the holder of the
equitable title shall list the property and pay the taxes thereon, whether the
property is in possession or not at the time of the payment.
   (B)   When land owned by two or more persons has been assessed as one tract
and any one or more of them does not pay his or her portion of the tax, any
such owner who pays the whole tax or redeems the entire tract from a sale for
delinquent taxes shall have a lien on the delinquent portion for the tax owing
by the delinquent and may sue for and recover the same.
   (C)   A lienholder may pay delinquent taxes, penalty and interest and be
subrogated to the lien of the city therefor. The sum so paid shall bear legal
interest from date of payment and be collectible in the same manner as the
original claim of the lienholder.
   (D)   When the occupant or tenant of real property, or a person in
possession of personal property, or having any other person having an interest
in any property, pays the delinquent taxes, penalty and interest thereon, such
person may recover of the owner the amount paid with legal interest, which
shall be a lien on the property.
   (E)   In the absence of a contract to the contrary, when property is sold in
January or February, the purchaser shall pay the taxes thereon for that year;
otherwise, the seller shall pay the taxes.
(Prior Code, § 37.15) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.16 PAYMENT BY ANOTHER AT OWNER’S REQUEST.
   Between the due date and day of sale, the Tax Collector may receive payment
of a tax, upon the written request of the owner or person liable, from any
other person and issue certificates of transfer as provided for by KRS 134.121.
(Prior Code, § 37.16) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.17 CONCEALMENT OR REMOVAL OF PROPERTY.
   When the Tax Collector believes, on reasonable grounds, that any person
owing a tax is about to conceal or remove his or her property from the city, he
or she may immediately collect the taxes in the same manner provided for the
collection of delinquent taxes, penalties and interest.
(Prior Code, § 37.17) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
ENFORCEMENT OF COLLECTION
§ 37.30 CONFORMANCE.
   Except when otherwise specified by statute or ordinance, the collection
procedure shall, to the extent applicable, be in conformity with the laws
regulating the duties of the County Sheriff.
(Prior Code, § 37.30) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.31 LIENS.
   (A)   The city shall have a lien after date of assessment on the property
assessed, and on all other property of each person, for all taxes due by him or
her to the city, which lien shall not be defeated by gift, devise, sale,
alienation or any other means.
   (B)   The city shall have a lien on the property assessed, following the
date when the taxes became delinquent, and also on any real property owned by a
delinquent taxpayer at the time when the Tax Collector offers the tax claims
for sale, which lien shall not be defeated by gift, devise, sale, alienation or
any means whatever, except by sale to a bona fide purchaser, but no purchase of
property made before final settlement for taxes for a particular assessment
date has been made by the Tax Collector shall preclude the lien covering such
taxes, and said lien shall include all interest, penalties, fees, commissions,
charges and other expenses incurred by reason of delinquency in payment of the
tax bill, or in the process of collecting it, and shall have priority over any
other obligation or liability, and which lien shall be of equal rank with that
of the state. When any preceding is instituted to enforce the lien provided for
in this division (B), the lien shall continue in force until the matter is
judicially determined.
(Prior Code, § 37.31) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.32 METHODS OF ENFORCEMENT.
   The tax lien may be enforced:
   (A)   By distraint of personal property;
   (B)   By suit as for debt;
   (C)   By action to enforce the lien; or
   (D)   By summary sale of tax claim.
(Prior Code, § 37.32) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.33 DISTRAINT.
   All personal property owned by a delinquent taxpayer shall be subject to
distraint at the discretion of the Tax Collector, until the tax claim is barred
by limitations. The Tax Collector shall sell for cash as under execution such
part of the distrained property as is sufficient to fully satisfy the claims,
shall give credit on the tax bill for the proceeds received.
(Prior Code, § 37.33) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.34 PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   Ad valorem taxes, together with penalties and interest, shall be a personal
debt of the person liable, from due date until paid and may be collected by
suit.
(Prior Code, § 37.34) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.35 SUIT TO ENFORCE LIEN.
   The procedure in an action to enforce a tax lien shall be the same as in an
action to enforce a mortgage lien.
(Prior Code, § 37.35) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.36 SALE OF TAX CLAIMS.
   Delinquent tax claims shall be subject to sale by the Tax Collector any time
from February 1 after the delinquent date until the claim is barred by
limitations.
(Prior Code, § 37.36) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.37 EXONERATIONS.
   (A)   Before a sale of tax claims, the Tax Collector may produce to the City
Council a list of such taxes as he or she regards erroneous or uncollectible.
   (B)   The City Council may exonerate him or her from collection of any such
claims deemed erroneous or uncollectible in its judgment.
(Prior Code, § 37.37) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967; Ord. 374, passed 12-9-1978)
§ 37.38 ADVERTISEMENT OF SALE.
   (A)   The Tax Collector shall advertise sale of tax claims by inserting
notice thereof in three consecutive weekly issues of a newspaper of general
bona fide circulation in the county immediately prior to the date of issue, and
by posting copies of said notice in at least three conspicuous places in the
city for not less than 15 days before the date of sale.
   (B)   The notice shall contain a statement of the sale, the date and place
thereof, a list of persons delinquent, when known, and the amount of taxes due,
which amount shall include penalty, interest and cost.
   (C)   The sale shall be at the door of the courthouse in the city.
   (D)   The Tax Collector shall, not less than 12 days before the sale, mail
to the delinquent taxpayer’s place of address or business, if such can be
ascertained, a notice of the time and place of sale. Failure to send such
notice shall not affect validity of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 37.38) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967; Ord. 374, passed 12-9-1978)
§ 37.39 CONDUCT OF SALE.
   (A)   The Tax Collector shall offer for sale and sell the delinquent tax
claims to any person for cash. If there is more than one willing purchaser of a
claim, the one having made the most recent purchase of a tax claim against the
same delinquent or property shall have preference. Otherwise, the claim shall
be sold to the first person offering to purchase same. If no responsible bid in
the amount of the tax is received, the Tax Collector shall purchase it for the
city.
   (B)   (1)   When a sale is made, the tax bill shall be known as a
certificate of delinquency, and the Tax Collector shall inscribe thereon the
date of sale, the sale price and the name and address of the purchaser, and the
purchaser shall be entitled to a certified copy thereof.
      (2)   Certificates of delinquency shall bear interest after date of
issuance until collected, at the rate of 12% per annum.
      (3)   To the extent applicable, such certificates of delinquency shall
have the same attributes as certificates of delinquency with respect to state
and county taxes.
(Prior Code, § 37.39) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.40 REPORT OF SALE.
   The Tax Collector shall make a report of sale to the City Council, filing
the certificates of delinquency therewith. The report of sale shall be filed
not later than the second meeting of the City Council after the date of sale.
(Prior Code, § 37.40) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967; Ord. 374, passed 12-9-1978)
§ 37.41 REDEMPTION.
   Tax claims may be redeemed within the time and in the manner provided for
redemption of tax claims sold for state and county taxes.
(Prior Code, § 37.41) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967)
§ 37.42 ANNUAL SETTLEMENT.
   The Tax Collector shall annually settle his or her accounts for ad valorem
taxes, and the City Council, upon approving same, shall issue to him or her a
quietus for the tax book for which settlement is made. The settlement shall be
filed at the first regular or special meeting of the City Council held after
the filing of the report of sale and approval of said report.
(Prior Code, § 37.42) (Ord. 317, passed 9-5-1967; Ord. 374, passed 12-9-1978)
ABANDONED AND BLIGHTED URBAN PROPERTIES TAX
§ 37.60 ABANDONED AND BLIGHTED URBAN PROPERTY CLASSIFIED AS REAL PROPERTY.
   Abandoned and blighted urban property is established as a separate
classification of real property for the purpose of ad valorem taxation. As used
in this subchapter, ABANDONED AND BLIGHTED URBAN PROPERTY means:
   (A)   Any vacant structure or vacant or unimproved lot or parcel of ground
in the city which has been vacant or unimproved for a period of at least one
year and which:
      (1)   Because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin infested, or
otherwise dangerous to the safety of persons, it is unfit for its intended use;
      (2)   By reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a place for
the accumulation of trash and debris, or has become infested with rodents or
other vermin;
      (3)   Has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years;
      (4)   Has had a methamphetamine contamination notice posted in accordance
with KRS 132.012(1)(d); or
   (B)   Any property in the city that has been identified as "blighted" or
"deteriorated" by the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 797, passed 3-13-2025)
§ 37.61 RATE OF TAXATION.
   (A)   The rate of taxation levied upon abandoned and blighted urban
properties is $0.75 on each $100 of assessed value.
   (B)   Right to appeal classification.
      (1)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall each year determine which
properties in the city are abandoned and blighted urban properties and shall
prepare and furnish a list of abandoned and blighted urban properties located
in the city to the City Clerk and the Owen County Property Valuation
Administrator prior to January 1 of each year.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) below, a property
classified by the Code Enforcement Department as abandoned and blighted urban
property as of January 1 shall be taxed as abandoned and blighted urban
property for such tax year. If the owner repairs, rehabilitates, or otherwise
returns the property to productive use so that the property is no longer
abandoned and blighted urban property, he or she shall notify the city, which
shall, if it finds the property is no longer abandoned and blighted urban
property, notify the City Clerk and the Owen County Property Valuation
Administrator to strike the property from the list of abandoned and blighted
urban properties as of the succeeding January 1.
      (3)   No later than March 1 of each year, the Code Enforcement Officer
shall mail, by first class mail, to the owner(s) of each abandoned and blighted
urban property, a notice that this property has been classified as abandoned
and blighted urban property. The owner of any abandoned and blighted urban
property who believes that his, her or its property has been incorrectly
classified may appeal the classification to the Code Enforcement Board, which
shall have all the authority of a vacant property review commission pursuant to
KRS Ch. 92. The appeal shall be in writing and shall be made no later than
April 1 of that year. The Board shall afford the owner the opportunity for a
hearing. If the Board finds that the property was incorrectly classified as
abandoned and blighted urban property, it shall cause the property to be
removed from the list of properties so classified. The Board shall develop
policies and procedures for conducting such appeals.
(Ord.797 passed 3-13-2025)
CHAPTER 38: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
38.01   Weekly pay period for city employees
   
38.02   County employees retirement system
   
38.03   Personnel Policy adopted
§ 38.01 WEEKLY PAY PERIOD FOR CITY EMPLOYEES.
   Effective July 1, 1990, all hourly employees of the city shall be paid on a
weekly basis, for regular and overtime pay.
(Prior Code, § 38.01) (Ord. 523, passed 8-7-1990)
§ 38.02 COUNTY EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 78.510 through 78.990, the City Council authorizes the
city and the employees and officers thereof to participate in the county
employees retirement system, effective June 1, 2003, and that all eligible
regular full-time officers and employees are hereby authorized and directed to
comply with the statutory requirements of this retirement system.
   (B)   All the employees and officers whose duties require an average of 100
hours of actual work during each working month be considered as regular full-
time employees for county retirement purposes, except those employees of
agencies excluded as shown below which may participate in the system as a
separate agency and those other person who are employed as “temporary,” “part-
time” and “seasonal” workers, as defined in KRS 78.510(21) of the County
Employees Retirement Laws.
   (C)   The Mayor is considered full-time and City Council members are
considered part-time employees for county employees retirement system purposes.
(Ord. 640, passed 5-8-2003)
§ 38.03 PERSONNEL POLICY ADOPTED.
   The City Council adopts a Personnel Policy for the city which provides for
the implementation of classification and compensation systems for city
employees.
(Ord. 779, passed 5-11-2023; Ord. 794, passed 12-12-2024)
CHAPTER 39: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
39.001   Title
   
39.002   Findings
   
39.003   Purpose; authority
   
39.004   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
39.015   Conflicts of interest in general
   
39.016   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
39.017   Receipt of gifts
   
39.018   Use of city property, equipment and personnel
   
39.019   Representation of interest before city government
   
39.020   Misuse of confidential information
   
39.021   Post-employment restriction
   
39.022   Honoraria
Financial Disclosure
   
39.035   Who must file
   
39.036   When to file statements; amended statements
   
39.037   Form of the statement of financial interest
   
39.038   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
39.039   Contents of the financial interest statement
   
39.040   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
39.055   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
39.070   Board of Ethics created
   
39.071   Alternate members
   
39.072   Facilities and staff
   
39.073   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
39.074   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
39.075   Notice of hearings
   
39.076   Hearing procedure
   
39.077   Appeals
   
39.078   Limitation of actions
   
39.079   Advisory opinions
   
39.080   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
 
   
39.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Owenton Code of
Ethics.”
(Prior Code, § 39.01) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.002 FINDINGS.
   The legislative body of the city finds and declares that:
   (A)   Public office and employment with the city are public trusts;
   (B)   The vitality and stability of the government of this city depends upon
the public’s confidence in the integrity of its elected and appointed officers
and employees. Whenever the public perceives a conflict between the private
interest and public duties of a city officer or employee, that confidence is
imperiled; and
   (C)   The government of this city has a duty to provide its citizens with
standards by which they may determine whether public duties are being
faithfully performed, and to make its officers and employees aware of the
standards which the citizenry rightfully expects them to comply with while
conducting their public duties.
(Prior Code, § 39.02) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.003 PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interests
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003, as enacted by the state’s General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Prior Code, § 39.03) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF ETHICS. The city’s Board of Ethics, which is created and vested in
this chapter, with the responsibility of enforcing the requirements of the
city’s Code of Ethics.
   BUSINESS. Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation or any legal entity through which business is conducted for profit.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual who seeks nomination or election to a city office.
An individual is a CANDIDATE when the individual files a notification and
declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a declaration
of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or Secretary of
State.
   CITY. The City of Owenton, Kentucky.
   CITY AGENCY. Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation or other
entity created, either individually or jointly, by this city.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person, whether full time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term EMPLOYEE
shall not include any contractors or subcontractors or any of their employees.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law,
father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER. A spouse, an unemancipated child residing in the
officer’s or employee’s household, or a person claimed by the officer or
employee, or the officer’s or employee’s spouse, as a dependent for tax
purposes.
   OFFICER. Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   A legislative body member;
      (3)   The City Clerk-Treasurer;
      (4)   The City Attorney;
      (5)   Any person who occupies a nonelected office created under KRS
83A.080; and
      (6)   A member of the governing body of any city agency who has been
appointed to the governing body of the agency by the city.
(Prior Code, § 39.04) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 39.015 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity, which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer’s or employee’s public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action, or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action, or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action, on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)   The officer or employee;
      (2)   A family member;
      (3)   An outside employer;
      (4)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest; or
      (5)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer’s or employee’s participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer or a business as defined in
divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) above, as a member of any business, occupation,
profession or other group, to any greater extent than any gain could reasonably
be expected to accrue to any other member of the business, occupation,
profession or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 39.10) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.016 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly or
through others undertake, execute, hold or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded or granted by the city or a city agency,
except as follows.
   (A)   The prohibition above shall not apply to contracts entered into before
an elected officer filed as a candidate for city office, before an appointed
officer was appointed to a city or city agency office or before an employee was
hired by the city or a city agency. However, if any contract entered into by a
city or city agency, officer or employee before he or she became a candidate,
was appointed to office or was hired as an employee, is renewable after he or
she becomes a candidate, assumes the appointed office or is hired as an
employee, then the prohibition above shall apply to the renewal of the
contract.
   (B)   The prohibition above shall not apply if the contract is awarded after
public notice and competitive bidding, unless the officer or employee is
authorized to participate in establishing the contract specifications, awarding
the contract or managing contract performance after the contract is awarded. If
the officer or employee has any of the authorities set forth in the preceding
sentence, then the officer or employee shall have no interest in the contract,
unless the requirements set forth in division (C) below are satisfied.
   (C)   The prohibition above shall not apply in any case where the following
requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature of
the officer’s or employee’s interest in the contract are publicly disclosed at
a meeting of the governing body of the city or city agency;
      (2)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the
governing body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed;
      (3)   A finding is made by the governing body of the city or city agency
that the contract with the officer or employee is in the best interest of the
public and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply or other
specific reasons; and
      (4)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the governing
body of the city or city agency before the contract is executed.
(Prior Code, § 39.11) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.017 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than $100, whether in the form of money,
service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise or any
other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be inferred that
the gift was intended to influence, or could reasonably be expected to
influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Prior Code, § 39.12) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.018 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any time,
funds, personnel, equipment or other personal or real property for the private
use of any person, unless:
   (A)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy; or
   (B)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Prior Code, § 39.13) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.019 REPRESENTATION OF INTEREST BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city, in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Prior Code, § 39.14) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.020 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential, if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the state’s Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 through 61.884, at the
time of its use or disclosure.
(Prior Code, § 39.15) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.021 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one year after the termination of the officer’s or
employee’s service with the city or city agency.
(Prior Code, § 39.16) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
§ 39.022 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer’s or employee’s activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer’s or employee’s service with
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or any city
agency from receiving and retaining from the city on behalf of the city actual
and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the officer or employee in
connection with an appearance, speech or article, provided that the officer or
employee can show by clear and convincing evidence that the expenses were
incurred or received on behalf of the city or city agency and primarily for the
benefit of the city or city agency and not primarily for the benefit of the
officer or employee or any other person.
(Prior Code, § 39.17) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 39.035 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city
agencies shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board
of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials;
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office;
   (C)   Members of the city’s Water and Sewer Commission, Planning Commission,
Board of Adjustment and anyone providing professional advisory service to the
city by contract;
   (D)   Members of the Board of Ethics created by this chapter; and
   (E)   Nonelected officers and employees of the city or any city agency who
are authorized to make purchases of materials or services, or award contracts,
leases or agreements involving the expenditure of more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 39.20) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.036 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the administrative official designated as the custodian of
its records by the Board of Ethics, no later than 4:00 p.m. on April 17, 1995.
All subsequent statements of financial interest shall be filed no later than 4:
00 p.m. on April 16 each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than 30 days after the date of the appointment; and
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than 30 days after the date on which the person becomes a candidate
for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the Board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than 30 days after becoming aware of the material
change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Prior Code, § 39.21) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.037 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form
prescribed by the Board of Ethics or administrative official designated by the
Board of Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall
deliver a copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the
statement, by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than January 15 of
each year.
   (B)   The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official,
to deliver a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the
officer or employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Prior Code, § 39.22) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.038 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall be the “official custodian” of the
statements of financial interest and shall have control over the maintenance of
the statements of financial interests. The statements of the financial
interests shall be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian,” as public
documents, available for public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the City
Clerk-Treasurer for a period of five years after filing, provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three years after a person ceases to be an
officer or employee of the city or city agency, the Board shall cause to be
destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those statements
filed by the person; and
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three years after any election at which a
candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board shall
cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
(Prior Code, § 39.23) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.039 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTEREST STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number and
home address of the filer;
      (2)   The title of the filer’s office, office sought or position of
employment;
      (3)   The occupation of the filer or the filer’s spouse;
      (4)   Information that identifies any income in excess of $5,000 during
the preceding calendar year from any business or other entity which received,
or is expected to receive, revenues from the city, in an amount greater than
$500;
      (5)   The name and address of any business located within the state in
which the filer or any member of filer’s immediate family had at any time
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market value
of 5% ownership interest or more;
      (6)   The name and address of any business located outside of the state,
if the business has engaged in any business transactions with the city during
the past three years, or which is anticipated to engage in any business
transactions with the city, in which the filer’s immediate family had at any
time during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 at fair market
value or 5% ownership interest or more;
      (7)   A designation as commercial, residential or rural and the location
of all real property within the county, other than the filer’s primary
residence, in which the filer or any member of the filer’s immediate family had
during the preceding calendar year an interest of $10,000 or more; and
      (8)   Each source by name and address of gifts or honoraria having an
aggregate fair market value of $100 or more from any single source, excluding
gifts received from family members, received by the filer or any member of the
filer’s immediate family during the preceding calendar year.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any officer or
employee to disclose any specific dollar amounts nor the names of individual
clients or customers of businesses listed as sources of income.
(Prior Code, § 39.24) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.040 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics, or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interests who fails to file the statement of financial interest who fails to
file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete statement or files a
statement in a form other than that prescribed by the Board. The notice shall
specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall establish a date by which the
failure or delinquency shall be remedied and shall advise the person of the
penalties for a violation.
   (B)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interest
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 39.25) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
NEPOTISM
§ 39.055 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the employment, appointment, promotion, transfer or
advancement of a family member to an office or position of employment with the
city or a city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to
October 1, 1994.
(Prior Code, § 39.30) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994) Penalty, see §
39.999
ENFORCEMENT
§ 39.070 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties and responsibilities as set forth in this subchapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics shall consist of three members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. The
initial member of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within 60 days of the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. No member of the
Board of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or
unpaid, or any position of employment with the city or any city agency. The
members shall serve for a term of three years; except that with respect to the
members initially appointed, one member shall be appointed for a term of one
year, one member shall be appointed for a term of two years and one member
shall be appointed for a term of three years. Thereafter, all appointments
shall be for a term of three years. Each member of the Board of Ethics shall
have been a resident of the city for at least one year prior to the date of the
appointment and shall reside in the city throughout the term in office. The
member of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by virtue of his or her known and
consistent reputation for integrity and his or her knowledge of local
government affairs. The members may be re-appointed for any number of
consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the executive
authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body, for misconduct,
inability or willful neglect of duties. Before any member of the Board of
Ethics is removed from office under this section, the member shall be afforded
the opportunity for hearing before the executive authority and the legislative
body.
   (D)   Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within 60 days by the
executive authority, subject to the approval of the legislative body. If a
vacancy is not filled by the executive authority within 60 days, the remaining
members of the Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation but
shall be reimbursed for all necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its
members, and annually thereafter, elect a Chairperson from among the
membership. The Chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting
member of the Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the Chairperson or at the written request of a majority of members.
   (H)   The presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum and the
affirmative vote of two or more members shall be necessary for any official
action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a conflict of
interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board shall
disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself from
voting on the matter and shall not be counted for purposes of establishing
quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes. All records or related material shall be maintained in a closed,
secure file by the City Clerk-Treasurer at City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 39.40) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.071 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The executive authority of the city, with the approval of legislative body
may appoint two alternate members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon
to serve when any regular member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her
duties. An alternate member shall be appointed for a term of one year.
Alternate members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to all of the
requirements of this subchapter that apply to regular members.
(Prior Code, § 39.41) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.072 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Prior Code, § 39.42) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.073 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings and make findings of facts and determinations with regard to
alleged violations of the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigation and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths;
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board;
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of the city agency, the County Attorney or other appropriate person or body, as
necessary;
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to the city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provisions of this chapter;
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter;
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to ensure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter and the state’s Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870 through 61.884;
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city; and
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 39.43) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.074 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violations of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten working days from the date of receipt.
The Board shall forward within ten working days to each officer or employee of
the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a copy of the
complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the Board of
Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations contained
in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject of the
complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations of the complaint. The
person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath and to offer evidence in the response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth’s Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings; and
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly discloses the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as: Lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee; lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers; or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government, issue, in writing, a confidence in city government, issue,
in writing, a confidential reprimand to the officer or employee concerning the
alleged violation and provide a copy of the confidential reprimand to the
executive authority and governing body of the city or city agency; or
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 39.44) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.075 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   (A)   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within 30 days of the date the order is issued, unless
the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a later date.
   (B)   The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a copy of any
pertinent regulations of the Board relating to the hearing, shall be sent to
the alleged violator within 24 hours of the time the order setting a hearing is
issued.
(Prior Code, § 39.45) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.076 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The state’s rules of civil procedure and the state’s rules of evidence
shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however, the
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in accordance
with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as to afford
all parties the full range of due process rights required by the nature of the
proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator or his
or her representative shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention, or may file
a written statement regarding the adverse mention for incorporation into the
record of the proceedings.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether a
violation of this chapter has been proven. Within 30 days after completion of
the hearing, the Board shall issue a written report of its findings and
conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to the
officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party who
filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation;
      (2)   In writing, reprimand the violator for the violation and provide a
copy of the reprimand to the executive authority and governing body of the city
or city agency with which the violator services;
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the executive authority and the governing
body that the violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may
include a recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office;
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000; and
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state law
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth’s Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 39.46) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.077 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any city provision or this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the findings to the circuit court of
the county within 30 days after the date of the final action by the Board of
Ethics by filing a petition with the court against the Board. The Board shall
transmit to the Clerk of the court all evidence considered by the Board at the
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 39.47) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.078 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitation is otherwise established by state law,
an action for violation of this chapter must be brought within one year after
the violation is discovered.
(Prior Code, § 39.48) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.079 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this subchapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential, unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   (1)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the state’s
Open Records Law, being KRS 61.870 through 61.884, to establish criteria under
which it will issue confidential advisory opinions.
      (2)   All other advisory opinions shall be public documents, except that
before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so that the
identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waved either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinion; or
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts and circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion was
rendered. However, if any facts determined by the Board to be material was
omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board shall not be
bound by the opinion.
   (F)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceedings for the violations
of this subchapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Prior Code, § 39.49) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.080 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal, or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics, or any other agency or official of the
city or the commonwealth, any facts or information relative to an actual or
suspected violation of this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting disciplinary or
punitive action if an officer or employee of the city or any city agency
discloses information which he or she knows:
      (1)   To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless disregard
for its truth or falsity;
      (2)   To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of the
state’s Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 through 61.884; or
      (3)   To be confidential under any other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 39.50) (Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
§ 39.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty is specifically provided shall be deemed guilty of a civil
offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board of Ethics not
to exceed $1,000, which may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of debt if the offender fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed
period of time.
   (C)   (1)   Anyone who violates §
39.016 of this code shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor
and the court may void any contract entered into in violation of this section.
      (2)   Additionally, a violation of §
39.016 of this code shall be grounds for removal from office or employment with
the city in accordance with any applicable provisions of state law and
ordinances, rules or regulations of the city.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who
fails or refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice
under §
39.040 of this code within the time period established in the notice shall be
guilty of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board in an amount not to exceed $25 per day, up to a maximum total civil fine
of $500.
      (2)   Any civil fine imposed by the Board under this section may be
recovered by the city in civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
(Prior Code, § 39.25)
   (E)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provisions of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to economic benefit or
gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have realized
as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be recovered by
the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender fails to pay
the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (F)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension or demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or agency having the power of removal or discipline. Any action to
remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this chapter
shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and all applicable laws of the commonwealth.
(Prior Code, § 39.99)
(Ord. 571, passed 12-6-1994)
CHAPTER 40: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
40.01   Definitions
   
40.02   Director of Emergency Management
   
40.03   Declaration of state of emergency
   
40.04   Notification when declaration issued by officials other than Director
   
40.05   Emergency management organization to carry out provisions; compliance
of response units
   
40.06   Snow emergency plan
§ 40.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECLARED EMERGENCY. Any incident or situation declared to be an emergency by
executive order of the Governor, or a County Judge/Executive, or a mayor, or
the chief executive of other local government in the commonwealth pursuant to
the provisions of KRS Chapters 39A through 39F.
   EMERGENCY. Any incident or situation which poses a major threat to public
safety so as to cause, or threaten to cause, loss of life, serious injury,
significant damage to property or major harm to public health or the
environment and which a local emergency response agency determines is beyond
its capabilities.
(Prior Code, § 40.01) (Ord. 617, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 40.02 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The city shall designate a Director of Emergency Management who shall
routinely be available to respond to emergencies, attend training and attend
meetings convened by the emergency management area manager.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Management, when acting in this capacity,
shall relinquish authorities and responsibilities associated with any other
governmental employment with the city and shall not assume those authorities
and responsibilities until such time as he or she shall cease acting in the
capacity as Director.
   (C)   In no case shall the city seek reimbursement for the Director’s salary
for any time spent in another capacity.
(Prior Code, § 40.02) (Ord. 607, passed 10-6-1998)
§ 40.03 DECLARATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   The Emergency Management Director, upon the signing of a declaration of a
state of emergency, in order to ensure that preparations and response for this
city will be adequate to deal with disaster or emergencies or the threat of
same, shall coordinate functions for disaster and emergency response. These
functions shall include, without limitations, firefighting services, police
services, medical and health services, ambulance services, rescue, search and
rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, radiological, chemical
and other monitoring, decontaminations and neutralization, evacuation of person
from stricken areas, emergency welfare service, emergency transportation, plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and any other
functions related to effective reaction to a disaster or emergency situation,
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation
for and the carrying out of the above mentioned functions or any other
provision of KRS 39A.010, except for functions for which military forces have
primary responsibility.
(Prior Code, § 40.03) (Ord. 617, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 40.04 NOTIFICATION WHEN DECLARATION ISSUED BY OFFICIALS OTHER THAN DIRECTOR.
   Upon the issuance of a declaration of a state of emergency by the County
Judge/Executive or Mayor of a city, the Emergency Management Director shall be
notified to ensure that the proper documents are prepared and that the
appropriate local, state and federal agencies are notified.
(Prior Code, § 40.04) (Ord. 617, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 40.05 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION TO CARRY OUT PROVISIONS; COMPLIANCE
OF RESPONSE UNITS.
   The emergency management organizations shall carry out all the provisions of
this chapter and KRS Chapters 39A through 39F and in all incidents of a
disaster and emergency situation. All response units shall comply with the
integrated emergency management system.
(Prior Code, § 40.05) (Ord. 617, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 40.06 SNOW EMERGENCY PLAN.
   (A)   A snow emergency may be declared after consultation between the city
police, the city’s public works, the city/county emergency management and the
Mayor’s office. The public information officer shall contact all media outlets
and other governmental jurisdiction and school district authorities in the
county of the snow emergency.
   (B)   Snow emergencies shall be defined at one of the following levels:
      (1)   Level one: Roadways are hazardous with blowing snow and drifting
snow, roadways may be icy, cautious driving is advised;
      (2)   Level two: Roadways as hazardous with blowing and drifting snow.
Only motorists whose travel is absolutely necessary should be on the highways.
Residents are urged to contact their employer to see if they should report to
work; and
      (3)   Level three: All roadways are restricted to non-emergency.
(Ord. 658, passed 9-6-2005)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Applications for water and/or sewer service
   
50.03   State laws incorporated by reference
   
50.04   Restrictions on amendments to this chapter
   
50.05   Water and sewer rates
Connections and Conditions of Service
   
50.20   Water taps and connections
   
50.21   Purchase and use of water
   
50.22   Abutting owners must connect to sewer lines
   
50.23   Sewer connections required for new buildings
   
50.24   Non-sewer facilities prohibited
   
50.25   Sewer connections; regulations
   
50.26   Stormwater drain connections prohibited
   
50.27   Sewer taps to be made only by city
   
50.28   Property owners required to install toilets
   
50.29   Sewer installation costs to be borne by property owners
   
50.30   All septic facilities not connected to sewers are prohibited
   
50.31   Unsanitary deposit of garbage and discharge of sewage or other wastes
to non-sewer facilities are prohibited
   
50.32   Inflammable and other improper substances prohibited from being
deposited in sewer system
   
50.33   Special usages of sewer system
   
50.34   Special meters for usage not related to water
   
50.35   Unusual sewage discharges
   
50.36   Other special classifications
   
50.37   Ownership of lines and meters
   
50.38   Regulations, prohibitions and conditions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Owenton, Kentucky, acting by and through its City Council
or by and through such other body as shall be the governing body of the city
under the laws of the state at any given time.
   CUSTOMER. A property owner or his or her agent who has agreed to purchase
water and/or sewer service from the city.
   MANAGER. The manager, Superintendent or other person duly employed and
authorized by the city to supervise the operation of the system.
   SYSTEM. The waterworks system and sewer system of the city, as now or
hereafter constituted.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988)
§ 50.02 APPLICATIONS FOR WATER AND/OR SEWER SERVICE.
   Each customer must make written application for water and/or sewer service
at the City Hall, and said application, including service received thereunder,
is not assignable by the customer.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988)
§ 50.03 STATE LAWS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   All applicable state statutes which now or may hereafter exist are
incorporated herein and made a part of this chapter, and the city may use any
powers therein contained, in addition to those herein set out.
(Prior Code, § 51.03) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988)
§ 50.04 RESTRICTIONS ON AMENDMENTS TO THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall not be amended without the permission of the Farmers Home
Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture (the “FmHA”), as long as the
FmHA is the owner or insurer of any bonds issued by the city and payable from
the revenues of the system.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988)
§ 50.05 WATER AND SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Monthly water rates. The rates and charges for water service furnished
by the city are hereby fixed and established on a monthly basis as follows.
      (1)   Minimum water rate. The minimum water bill shall be $16.77 per
month for customers located within the city limits and $22.68 per month for
customers outside the city limits, and each water customer shall be entitled to
2,000 gallons (or less) of water in each month for such minimum charge.
      (2)   Meter rates for water usage in addition to minimum charge. Subject
to the minimum monthly water rate specified above, the following metered
charges shall be made for each 1,000 gallons or less of water consumption per
month to customers of all size water connections:
         (a)   Within the city limits:
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Monthly Charge per 1,000 Gallons
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Monthly Charge per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons                  $16.77 (minimum monthly charge)
Next 1,000 gallons                   $6.26
Next 2,000 gallons                   $5.18
Next 5,000 gallons                   $4.20
Next 10,000 gallons                  $3.42
Next 20,000 gallons                  $3.10
All over 40,000 gallons              $3.06
 
         (b)   Outside the city limits:
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Monthly Charge per 1,000 Gallons
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Monthly Charge per 1,000 Gallons
Rate A:
   First 20,000 gallons           $52.10 (minimum monthly charge)
   Over 20,000 gallons            $3.13
Rate B:
   First 6,000 gallons            $39.35 (minimum monthly charge)
   Next 2,000 gallons             $6.04
   Over 8,000 gallons             $4.55
Rate C:
   First 2,000 gallons            $22.68 (minimum monthly charge)
   Next 2,000 gallons             $7.56
   Over 4,000 gallons             $4.55
 
   (B)   New monthly sewage rates. The rates and charges for sewer service
furnished by the city are hereby fixed and established on a monthly basis as
follows.
      (1)   Minimum sewage rate. The minimum sewage bill shall be $17.27 per
month for customers located within the city limits and $24.18 per month for
customers outside the city limits, and each sewage customer shall be entitled
to 2,000 gallons (or less) of water in each month for such minimum charge.
      (2)   Meter rates for sewage usage in addition to minimum charge. Subject
to the minimum monthly sewage rate specified above, the following metered
charges shall be made for each 1,000 gallons or less of water consumption per
month to customers of all size water connections:
         (a)   Within the city limits:
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Monthly Charge per 1,000 Gallons
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Monthly Charge per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons                  $17.27 (minimum monthly charge)
Next 1,000 gallons                   $7.84
Next 2,000 gallons                   $6.17
Next 5,000 gallons                   $5.59
Next 10,000 gallons                  $5
Next 20,000 gallons                  $4.41
All over 40,000 gallons              $4.20
 
         (b)   Outside the city limits:
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Monthly Charge per 1,000 Gallons
Number of Gallons of Water per Month Monthly Charge per 1,000 Gallons
First 2,000 gallons                  $24.18 (minimum monthly charge)
Next 1,000 gallons                   $10.98
Next 2,000 gallons                   $8.65
Next 5,000 gallons                   $7.82
Next 10,000 gallons                  $6.99
Next 20,000 gallons                  $6.17
All over 40,000 gallons              $5.88
 
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 650, passed 5-3-2005)
CONNECTIONS AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
§ 50.20 WATER TAPS AND CONNECTIONS.
   The costs and charges payable to the city to have the city make, or
supervise the making of, a boring or tap into the city’s water mains and lines,
and to set and install an appropriate water metering device or to supervise the
setting and installation of an appropriate water metering device are so fixed,
set and established as follows.
   (A)   The sum and amount of $650 to make a tap and install the appropriate
water metering device for a bore diameter of five-eighths by three-fourths
inches, plus costs and charges extraordinary as may be incurred by the city to
so make and effect the requested tap and install the required water meter
device for a residential user/customer only.
   (B)   To effect or supervise a tap having a bore diameter of greater than
five-eighths by three-fourths inches, and install or supervise the installation
of the appropriate water metering device for a bore diameter of greater than
five-eighths by three-fourths inches, the charges due and payable by the
nonresidential user/customer shall be those costs and amounts as determined or
estimated by the city to effect or supervise the tap and to effect or supervise
the due installation of the required water metering device/unit, all duly set
forth within a written agreement containing therein a provision and covenant
regarding extraordinary expenses and costs which may be incurred by the city to
effect or supervise the tap or installation of the appropriate water metering
device/unit, all payable by the city’s nonresidential user/customer before the
water lines be charged or service provided, and with such costs and charges to
the nonresidential user/customer being not less than the sum and amount of $650
plus all costs and expenses actual and extraordinary, all payable by the
nonresidential user/customer.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) (Ord. 619, passed 10-5-1999)
§ 50.21 PURCHASE AND USE OF WATER.
   (A)   Each customer shall be entitled to purchase from the city, pursuant to
the agreements as may from time to time be provided and required by the city,
the water as the customer may desire, subject, however, to the provisions of
this chapter and to any further rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the city; provided, however, that should a customer sell or dispose of a
portion of his or her property or subdivide the same, he or she or the new
owner of each new tract, may not demand water and taps without paying
connection fees for each tract to be served.
   (B)   In the event that the total water supply shall be insufficient to meet
all of the needs of the customer, or in the event that there is a shortage of
water, the city or its manager may prorate the water available among the
various customers, on the basis as is deemed equitable by the city or its
manager, and may require adherence thereto or prohibit the use of water for
specified purposes, for the appropriate period of time as may be necessary
under the circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 51.16) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988)
§ 50.22 ABUTTING OWNERS MUST CONNECT TO SEWER LINES.
   (A)   All owners, tenants and occupants of dwellings, houses, apartments,
hotels, motels, mobile homes, house trailers, mobile home parks, trailer camps,
manufacturing or commercial establishments or any other building of any kind or
nature situated on a lot or lots, within the city limits, through which any
sewage collection line has been or is hereafter installed or which abuts upon
any street, alley or easement within the city limits in which there is
hereafter installed a sewage collection line, or to which property a sewage
collection line is extended, shall within 90 days following the date on which
the sewage collection line is placed in operation, connect therewith all
sanitary sewage drain pipes of the dwellings, houses, apartments, hotels,
motels, mobile homes, house trailers, mobile home parks, trailer camps,
manufacturing or commercial establishments or other buildings, with said
sanitary sewage collection line, conveying thereby all of the sewage therefrom
into said sewer system, the connections to be made in accordance with the rules
and regulations as the city may from time to time duly establish, and the
failure to make the connection is hereby declared unlawful and to constitute a
nuisance.
   (B)   Each owner, tenant and occupant of similar property outside the city
limits, who is connected to the city water system and receives water service
from the city, shall, within 90 days following the date on which the city sends
written notice to the party that a city sewage collection line is available to
the property, connect the property to the sewage collection line, in accordance
with the rules and regulations and the city shall cut off the water supply to
any owner, tenant and/or occupant failing to make the connection.
(Prior Code, § 51.17) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED FOR NEW BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All architects, contractors, builders or other persons, before
commencing the erection of any building or other improvement capable of
emitting liquid wastes or sewage, on any lot or parcel of land abutting on a
street, alley or easement in which there may be hereafter installed and
maintained any sewage collection line, or on any lot or parcel of land through
which there may be hereafter installed a sewage collection line, or to which a
sewage collection line is made available, shall before erecting or installing
the building or improvement, exhibit to the City Council or to the official as
the City Council may designate, satisfactory evidence that means has been
provided or will be provided for connecting the sanitary sewage drain pipes
from the building or other improvement with the sewer collection line.
   (B)   No stormwater or other surface or subsurface water drain shall be
connected with any sanitary sewer line hereafter constructed, nor shall any
stormwater, surface or subsurface water be otherwise introduced into any
sanitary sewer collection line.
(Prior Code, § 51.18) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 NON-SEWER FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain or permit
to be constructed or maintained any outdoor toilet, privy, vault, cesspool,
septic tank or other similar contrivance for the reception of sewage on any
lands owned by the person, or under his or her control, which abut upon a
sewage collection line in any public street, alley or other easement or through
which a sewage collection line passes or to which a sewage collection line is
hereafter available; all outdoor toilets or privies shall be removed; and all
vaults, cesspools, septic tanks or other similar contrivances for the reception
of sewage shall be closed or filled or otherwise removed from the properties
described above within 90 days after sewage collection service becomes
available.
   (B)   All privies, surface toilets or other means of casting or depositing
sewage into a container above or below the surface of the ground or upon or
into the soil or into any running or percolating stream of water or into any
cistern or well whereby the soil or any surface or subsurface waters is
contaminated with sewage are hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance
and their use or maintenance for a period of more than 90 days following the
availability of a sewage collection line to the property is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 51.19) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 SEWER CONNECTIONS; REGULATIONS.
   All sewer connections shall be made under the regulations as the city may
establish. Failure to effect a sewer connection is hereby declared to be
unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 51.20) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 STORMWATER DRAIN CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No stormwater drain shall be or remain connected or be connected with any
separate sanitary sewer heretofore or hereafter constructed as, or made a part
of, the sewer system of the city, nor shall any stormwater be otherwise
introduced into any separate sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 51.21) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 SEWER TAPS TO BE MADE ONLY BY CITY.
   No sewer taps (breaking or entering into sewer lines of the city) shall be
made by any person, firm or corporation except the city. The city will, upon
application to the city and payment of any tapping or connection fee, as may be
prescribed by the city, tap the city sewer and run a lateral to the property
line of any applicant where sewers are available, and any and all installations
or attachments thereto shall be made by the applicant under the directions and
supervision of the city, provided that nothing herein shall be construed as
requiring the city to furnish a sewer connection or sewer services to any
premises where a city sewer is not available at the time that the application
is made.
(Prior Code, § 51.22) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28 PROPERTY OWNERS REQUIRED TO INSTALL TOILETS.
   Each owner of house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and to which
sewer service is made available by the city, is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect the
facilities directly with the available public sewer in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.23) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 SEWER INSTALLATION COSTS TO BE BORNE BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   All costs and expense indigent to the installation and connection of a
building sewer shall be borne by the owner, who shall indemnify the city from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer. All connections shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent of the Sewer System or other duly authorized
official of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.24) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.30 ALL SEPTIC FACILITIES NOT CONNECTED TO SEWERS ARE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain a privy, well,
vault, cesspool, cistern, septic tank or similar contrivance for the reception
of flowable sewage where sewers are available, and all privies, wells, vaults,
cesspools, cisterns, septic tanks, facilities and similar contrivances shall be
removed or disconnected by the owners and the occupants of premises to which
sewers are made available in the city as soon as the same are made available to
the premises. All privies, facilities and other means of casting or depositing
sewage into a container above or below the surface of the ground, or upon or
into the soil or into any running or percolating stream of water or into any
cistern or well, whereby the soil is contaminated with sewage, are hereby
declared to be unlawful and to constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 51.25) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31 UNSANITARY DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE AND DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE OR OTHER WASTES
TO NON-SEWER FACILITIES ARE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, any garbage or other objectionable waste, or to discharge to any natural
outlet within the city, any sewage, industrial wastes or other pollutant
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided under the supervision
of the manager or other duly authorized city official.
(Prior Code, § 51.26) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.32 INFLAMMABLE AND OTHER IMPROPER SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED FROM BEING
DEPOSITED IN SEWER SYSTEM.
   No substances shall be placed or discharged into the municipal sewer system
which will create a combustible, gaseous, explosive or inflammable condition in
the system, nor shall any substances or objects be placed or discharged into
the system which will not dissolve and which will thus cause an obstruction and
clogging within the system. No petroleum products shall be placed or discharged
into the municipal sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 51.27) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 SPECIAL USAGES OF SEWER SYSTEM.
   In the event that a building or premises, discharging sewage, water or other
wastes into the municipal sewer facilities, uses water supplied on other than a
metered basis from either a private or public water supply, then in each case
the owner or occupant may be required to cause a water meter or other measuring
device to be installed, acceptable to the manager.
(Prior Code, § 51.28) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34 SPECIAL METERS FOR USAGE NOT RELATED TO WATER.
   In the event any building or premises uses water in excess of 10,000 gallons
per month as shown by the water meter readings for two consecutive months, and
it can be shown that a substantial portion of the water as so measured does not
and cannot enter the municipal sewer facilities, then the manager may
determine, in the manner as may be found practicable, the amount of water
entering the sewers, in which event the sewer rate or charge shall be based
thereon, or the manager may require or permit the installation of additional
meters or measuring devices to determine the quantity of water or sewage
actually entering the municipal sewer facilities, in which case the sewer rate
or charge shall be based thereon.
(Prior Code, § 51.29) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988)
§ 50.35 UNUSUAL SEWAGE DISCHARGES.
   In the event the sewage, water or other liquid wastes being discharged into
the municipal sewer facilities from any building or premises contains unduly
high concentrates of any substances which add to the operating costs of the
municipal sewer facilities, then special rates, rentals or charges may be
established, charged and collected as to the building or premises or the owner
or other interested party may be required to specially treat the sewage, water
or other liquid wastes before it is discharged into the municipal sewer
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 51.30) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988)
§ 50.36 OTHER SPECIAL CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Whenever it is determined by the manager to be necessary to classify any
commercial institutions or industries by reason of the unusual purpose for
which water is used, or by reason of the character of the sewage, water or
other liquid wastes discharged therefrom, or whenever the established schedules
of rates and charges for any reason are not applicable, then special rates or
other charges may be established by the governing body of the city, and any
person, firm or corporation being dissatisfied with the established schedules
of rates and charges be reason of peculiar or unusual use of occupancy of any
premises, and consequently alleging peculiar or unusual uses of water, may file
application with the governing body of the city or with any other board or body
of the city which may be in charge and control of the municipal waterworks and
sewer systems, for special classification rates and charges.
(Prior Code, § 51.31) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988)
§ 50.37 OWNERSHIP OF LINES AND METERS.
   The city shall own all lines, meters, cut-off valves and other water and
sewer equipment as shall be paid for by the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.32) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988)
§ 50.38 REGULATIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND CONDITIONS.
   The following regulations, prohibitions and conditions shall be deemed to
supplement the bond ordinance and the water and sewer rate ordinance adopted by
the city in connection with the aforesaid financing.
   (A)   All taps and connections to the water mains and sewer of the city
shall be made by and/or under the direction and supervision of the manager.
   (B)   Water service may be discontinued by the manager for any violation of
any rule, regulation or condition of service and especially for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the application or contract as to the property
or fixtures to be supplied, or as to additional use of water and/or sewer
service, or as to unusual or extraordinary use of sewer facilities;
      (2)   Failure to report to the city additions to the property or fixtures
to be supplied, or of additional use of water and/or sewer service;
      (3)   Resale or giving away of water;
      (4)   Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect service pipes
and/or failure to keep same in suitable state of repair;
      (5)   Tampering with meter, meter seal, service or valves, or permitting
tampering by others;
      (6)   Connection, cross-connection or permitting the same, of any
separate water supply to premises which receive water from the city; and
      (7)   Nonpayment of bills.
   (C)   Any customer desiring to discontinue the water and/or sewer service to
his or her premises for any reason must give notice of discontinuance in
writing at the City Hall; otherwise, a customer shall remain liable for all
water used and water and/or sewer services rendered to the premises by the city
unless said notice is received by the city.
   (D)   Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the city
will be mailed to the customer at the address listed on the application unless
a change of address has been filed in writing with the city; and the city shall
not otherwise be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice nor will the
customer be excused from the payment of any bill or any performance required in
said notice.
   (E)   (1)   Meters will be read on the fifteenth of each month.
      (2)   Bills for water and sewer service are due and payable at the City
Hall, or to any designated agent, on their date of issue. The past due date
shall be the fifteenth day after the date of issue. Bills will be dated and
mailed on the first day of each month.
      (3)   All bills not paid on or before the past due date shall be deemed
delinquent, and the city may serve a customer a written final notice of said
delinquency, and of the fact that the customer is entitled, upon written
request, to a hearing on the question of termination of service. If a
delinquent bill is not paid within ten days after the date of the final notice,
and if no hearing is requested, or if a hearing is requested and timely held,
and the customer’s delinquency is thereby established, the water supply to the
customer may be discontinued without further notice; provided, however, if,
prior to discontinuance of service, there is delivered to the city, or to its
employee empowered to discontinue service, a written certificate signed by a
physician, a registered nurse or a public health officer that, in the opinion
of the certifier, discontinuance of service will aggravate an existing illness
or infirmity on the affected premises, service shall not be discontinued until
the affected resident can make other living arrangements or until ten days
elapse from the time of the city’s receipt of said certification, whichever
occurs first.
      (4)   If a deadline date falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, the deadline
shall not expire until the next succeeding secular day.
   (F)   Where the water supply to the customer has been discontinued for
nonpayment of delinquent bills, a charge as may be specified or revised from
time to time in any applicable rate ordinance will be made for reconnection of
water service, but the reconnection will not be made until after all delinquent
bills and other charges, if any, owed by the customer to the city have been
paid.
   (G)   The Council shall have the right to require that a nominal sum, or any
other meter deposit as may be specified or revised from time to time in any
applicable rate ordinance, shall be placed on deposit with the city by a
customer for the purpose of establishing or maintaining the customer’s credit
as assurance for the payment of water by the customer.
   (H)   All meters shall be installed, renewed and maintained at the expense
of the city, and the city reserves the right to determine the size and type of
meter used.
   (I)   Upon written request of any customer, the meter serving said customer
shall be tested by the city. The test will be made without charge to the
customer if the meter has not been tested within 60 months preceding the
requested test; otherwise, a charge of $25 will be made and then only if the
test indicates meter accuracy within the limits of 2%. If a meter is inaccurate
in excess of 2%, adjustments shall be made for the two preceding months prior
to test according to the inaccuracy in excess of 2%.
   (J)   Where a meter has ceased to register, or meter reading cannot be
obtained, the quantity of water consumed will be based upon an average of the
prior six months’ consumption, considering the conditions of water service
prevailing during the period in which the meter fails to register.
   (K)   The city shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruption
of service, and, when interruptions occur, will endeavor to re-establish
service with the shortest possible delay. When the service is interrupted, all
consumers affected by the interruption will be notified in advance whenever
possible.
   (L)   The city shall in no event be held responsible for any claim made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by
reason of any other interruption of the supply of water caused by the failure
or breakage of machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs. No person shall be
entitled to damages nor for any portion of a payment refunded for any
interruption of service which in the opinion of the city may be deemed
necessary.
   (M)   Customers having boilers and/or pressure vessels receiving a supply of
water from the city must have a check valve on the water supply line and a
vacuum valve on the steam line to prevent collapse in case the water supply
from the city is discontinued or interrupted for any reason, with or without
notice.
   (N)   The premises receiving a supply of water, and all service lines,
meters and fixtures, including any fixtures within the premises, shall at all
reasonable hours be subject to inspection by any duly authorized employees of
the city.
   (O)   Piping on the premises of a customer must be so installed that
connections are conveniently located with respect to the city lines and mains.
The customer shall provide a place for metering which is unobstructed and
accessible at all times. The customer shall furnish and maintain a cutoff valve
on his or her side of the meter, and the city will furnish a like valve on its
side of the meter.
   (P)   The customer’s service lines shall be installed and maintained by the
customer at his or her own expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the city’s rules and regulations and with the regulations of
the Department of Health.
   (Q)   If any loss or damage to the property of the city or any accident or
other injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the negligence
or wrongful action of the customer, member of his or her household, his or her
agent or employee, the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall be
paid by the customer to the city, and any liability otherwise resulting shall
be that of the customer.
   (R)   Water furnished by the city may be used for domestic consumption by
the customer, members of the customer’s household and employees only. The
customer shall not sell or give the water to any other person.
   (S)   Each customer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed, to the city, a perpetual easement and right-of-way across any
property owned or controlled by the customer whenever said easement or right-
of-way is necessary for the city water and/or sewer facilities and lines so as
to enable the city to furnish service to the customer.
   (T)   Water for building or construction purposes will be furnished by meter
measurement, only after suitable deposit has been made, the minimum deposit
being the amount as may be specified from time to time in any applicable rate
ordinance; and the amount shall be determined by the city based upon the size
of the construction work contemplated; and all water for building or
construction purposes, as set forth in the permit, must pass through one and
the same meter. Water so supplied shall be discharged through a hose or pipe
directly upon the material to be made wet, or into a barrel or other container,
and in no case upon the ground or into or through a ditch or trench; and all
use of water by any part other than applicant, or use of water for any purpose
or upon any premises not so stated or described in the application, must be
prevented by the applicant, or water service may be discontinued to the
applicant without notice.
   (U)   Special terms and conditions may be made where water is used by the
city or community for public purposes such as fire extinguishment, public parks
and the like.
   (V)   The city will construct extensions to its water and sewer lines to
points within its service area, but the city is not required to make any
installation unless the customer pays to the city the entire cost of the
installation.
      (1)   All line extensions shall be evidenced by a contract signed by the
city and the person advancing funds for said extension, but each contract shall
be null and void unless approved by the Farmers Home Administration and other
governing bodies.
      (2)   If refund of the advance is to be made, the following method shall
apply: The refund shall be in an amount equal to 20% of the total gross revenue
of water sales per year for each service connected to the new extension
prescribed in the agreement, for a period not to exceed five years, provided
that the aggregate payments do not exceed the total amount deposited.
      (3)   No refund shall be made from any revenue received from any lines
leading up to or beyond the particular line extension covered by contract.
      (4)   All decisions in connection with the manner of installation of any
extension and maintenance thereof shall remain in the exclusive control of the
city; the extension shall be the property of the city, and no other person
shall have any right, title or interest therein.
   (W)   The city may refuse service to any person not presently a customer
when in the opinion of the city the capacity of the facilities will not permit
service.
   (X)   These rules may be changed or amended.
   (Y)   Complaints may be made to the manager of the system, whose decision
may be appealed to the governing body of the city within ten days; otherwise,
the manager’s decision will be final.
(Prior Code, § 51.33) (Ord. 498, passed 5-24-1988) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$500 for each offense. Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 51.99)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Water Shortages
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Water shortage advisory
   
51.04   Water shortage alert
   
51.05   Water shortage emergency
   
51.06   Water rationing
   
51.07   Ongoing condition until officially ended
   
51.08   Publication of declaration; effective date
   
51.09   Violation procedure
 
   
51.99   Penalty
WATER SHORTAGES
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the declaration of water
supply shortage situations and the implementation of voluntary and mandatory
water conservation measures throughout the city, and its water customers, in
the event a water shortage is declared. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed to interfere with common law riparian or statutory water rights.
(Prior Code, § 51.50) (Ord. 492, passed 4-6-1988)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, group of persons, corporation, association,
partnership or other entity or organization purchasing or using water for any
purpose.
   WATER. Any water which has been treated by the city’s water treatment plant
or which has passed through any portion of the city water distribution system.
(Prior Code, § 51.51) (Ord. 492, passed 4-6-1988)
§ 51.03 WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY.
   Whenever the City Council finds that a potential shortage of water is
indicated, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a water shortage
advisory exists, and the water supply and the demand on that supply shall be
monitored on a daily basis. In addition, the Mayor or his or her designated
agent is authorized to call upon all water customers to employ voluntary water
conservation measures to limit water use and eliminate the waste of water. Any
resolution adopted pursuant to this section shall be published in the Owen
County News Herald and may be publicized through any other appropriate method
for making the resolution known to the public.
(Prior Code, § 51.52) (Ord. 492, passed 4-6-1988)
§ 51.04 WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council finds raw water supplies to be consistently
below seasonal averages indicating that the water supply may be inadequate to
meet normal needs, the City Council shall be empowered to declare by resolution
that a water shortage alert exists.
   (B)   The city shall continue to encourage voluntary water conservation
measures as may be set forth in the resolution and it shall further impose a
ban on the following water uses for the duration of the shortage:
      (1)   Any use of water for ornamental purposes, including, but not
limited to, fountains, reflecting pools and artificial waterfalls;
      (2)   Watering of public or private gardens, lawns, flowers, shrubs or
trees;
      (3)   Watering of parks, golf courses (except greens), playing fields or
other recreational areas;
      (4)   The filling and/or operation of swimming pools except pools used by
health care facilities for patient care or rehabilitation or other pools
specifically designated as exempt by resolution;
      (5)   Washing of motor vehicles including, but not limited to,
automobiles, trucks, boats and trailers. Commercial car and truck washes shall
be exempt from this restriction during a water shortage alert; and
      (6)   Serving water in restaurants, clubs or other eating places, except
upon a specific request by a customer.
(Prior Code, § 51.53) (Ord. 492, passed 4-6-1988) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council determines that raw water supplies are below
the level necessary to meet the normal needs of the population and that serious
shortages exist, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a water
shortage emergency exists.
   (B)   In the event that a water shortage emergency is declared, all water
uses set forth in §
51.04 of this code shall continue to be prohibited and in addition, the
following water uses shall be prohibited:
      (1)   All domestic uses of water shall be prohibited except water
necessary to sustain human life and lives of domestic pets and to maintain
minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation;
      (2)   The use of water for any swimming pool;
      (3)   The washing of any motor vehicle, including commercial car and
truck washes;
      (4)   The use of water in any automated clothes washing or dish washing
device, including commercial laundromats; and
      (5)   The watering of golf courses, including golf course greens.
(Prior Code, § 51.54) (Ord. 492, passed 4-6-1988) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 WATER RATIONING.
   Whenever the City Council finds a need to provide for the equitable
distribution of a critically limited water supply, and in order to assure that
limited water supplies are used to preserve public health and safety, it shall
be empowered to declare by resolution the adoption of mandatory water
rationing. The water rationing shall be under terms and conditions which are
appropriate under the circumstances and shall be set forth specifically in any
resolution declaring the rationing of water.
(Prior Code, § 51.55) (Ord. 492, passed 4-6-1988)
§ 51.07 ONGOING CONDITION UNTIL OFFICIALLY ENDED.
   Any declaration of a water shortage advisory, water shortage alert, water
shortage emergency or water rationing shall be considered as ongoing until the
condition so declared has been officially ended by a resolution of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 51.56) (Ord. 492, passed 4-6-1988)
§ 51.08 PUBLICATION OF DECLARATION; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Any declaration made pursuant to this subchapter shall be published in the
Owen County News Herald and through any other appropriate method for making the
resolutions public. Any declaration made pursuant to this subchapter shall be
effective immediately upon passage, however, no criminal penalty shall be
imposed upon any person for violating the terms of any declaration hereunder
until the resolution authorizing the declaration has been published.
(Prior Code, § 51.57) (Ord. 492, passed 4-6-1988)
§ 51.09 VIOLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this subchapter or who fails
to carry out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this subchapter or who
impedes or interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this
subchapter shall be subject to the following penalties: A written notice of any
violation shall be affixed to the property where the violation occurred. In
addition, a copy of the notice may be mailed to the person responsible for the
violation. The notice shall describe the violation and shall order that it be
corrected or abated immediately or within the specified time as set forth in
the notice.
   (B)   If the violation is not abated or corrected immediately or within the
time specified, the city may terminate water service to the property or to the
violator upon the following procedures.
      (1)   The city shall notify the customer by mail that due to the
violation water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the violator will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting
a hearing before the City Council.
      (2)   If a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given full opportunity to be heard.
      (3)   The City Council shall make findings of fact and shall enter an
order determining whether service should continue or be terminated.
(Prior Code, § 51.58) (Ord. 492, passed 4-6-1988)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of the termination of water service, any
customer found to be in violation of §§
51.01 through
51.09 of this code may be prosecuted in the appropriate court of law. Any
person so charged and found guilty in the appropriate court of law of violating
the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.09 of this code shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 and not
more than $500 or confinement in the county jail for a period to be fixed by
the court not to exceed 30 days, or both fine and confinement.
(Prior Code, § 51.99) (Ord. 492, passed 4-6-1988)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose and policy
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Abbreviations
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.015   Mandatory sewer connection
   
52.016   Unlawful discharge to storm sewers or natural outlets
   
52.017   Compliance with local, state and federal laws
   
52.018   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewers
   
52.019   Substances which interfere
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
52.030   Public sewer not available
   
52.031   Requirements for installation
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.045   Permits
   
52.046   Prohibited connections
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
52.060   General conditions
   
52.061   Restricted discharges
   
52.062   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
52.063   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.064   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
52.065   Protection from accidental and slug discharges
   
52.066   State requirements
   
52.067   City’s right of revision
   
52.068   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
Pretreatment Program Administration
   
52.080   Wastewater discharges
   
52.081   Industrial user discharge permits
   
52.082   Permit modifications
   
52.083   Permit conditions
   
52.084   Permit duration
   
52.085   Permit transfer
   
52.086   Reporting requirements for permittee
   
52.087   Permit violation
   
52.088   Monitoring
   
52.089   Inspection and sampling
   
52.090   Pretreatment
   
52.091   Confidential information
Fees
   
52.105   Purpose
   
52.106   Charges and fees
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
52.120   Right to enter premises
   
52.121   Right to obtain information regarding discharge
   
52.122   Access to easement
   
52.123   Safety
Enforcement
   
52.135   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
52.136   Judicial remedies
   
52.137   Supplemental enforcement remedies
   
52.138   Affirmative defenses
 
   
52.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Hazardous materials, see
Chapter 94
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enable the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. (Pub
L. 92-500) and the general pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives to this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users, enforcement of general requirements for all
users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires industrial
user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city’s publicly-
owned treatment works (POTW). Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Superintendent of the POTW shall administer, implement and enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 634, passed 5-5-2002)
§ 52.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Secretary of the state’s Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet and/or any authorized representative thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of a user may be: A
principal executive officer of at least the level of vice president, if the
industrial user is a corporation; a general partner or proprietor if the user
is a partnership or proprietorship, respectively; a duly authorized
representative of the individual designated above if such representative is
responsible for the overall operation of the facilities from which the indirect
discharge originates. An AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE of the city may be any
person designated by the city to act on its behalf.
   AVAILABLE. A public sewer located at the property line or point at which
connection may be made with the city sanitary sewage collection facilities.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration in milligrams
per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   BUILDING SEWER PERMIT. As set forth in §§
52.045 and
52.046 of this code.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard. Any regulations containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1347) and 40 C.F.R. part 403, which applies to a specific category of
industrial users.
   CITY. The City of Owenton, its City Council or Commission or the Commission
Board or the Superintendent of the POTW or his or her designee.
   COMBINED SEWER. Any conduit carrying both sanitary sewage and stormwater or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and fecal
coliform bacteria; plus additional pollutants that the POTW is designed to
treat and, in fact, does treat to the degree required by the POTW’s NPDES/KPDES
permit.
   COMPOSITE WASTEWATER SAMPLE. A combination of individual samples of water or
wastewater taken at selected intervals, or based on quantity of flow for some
specified period, to minimize the effect of variability of the individual
sample. Individual samples may have equal volume or may be proportioned to the
flow at the time of the sampling.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The term shall refer to the Superintendent of the POTW or
his or her designee if the city has an approved pretreatment program under the
provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Health Department for Owen County.
   DILUTION STREAM. Any wastewater not generated by a process regulated for the
specific pollutant by a categorical standard under 40 C.F.R. subpart N.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the commonwealth.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
administrator or his or her duly authorized representative of said agency.
   EQUIPMENT. All movable, non-fixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   FEDERAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations for pretreatment of
industrial wastewater under 40 C.F.R. subpart N and any applicable regulations,
as amended.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined in this section.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of pollutants into a
POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b), (c) or (d), and including holding tank wastes
discharged into the system.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes as
distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERCEPTOR. A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous and undesirable matter from domestic wastes while
permitting domestic sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer system
or drainage system by gravity. INTERCEPTOR as defined herein is commonly
referred to as a grease, oil or sand trap.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations or that which contributes to a violation of any requirement of
the city’s NPDES/KPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge
use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. §
1345) or any criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substance Control Act, being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or more stringent state criteria (including those
obtained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of
the SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MAXIMUM DAILY CONCENTRATION. The maximum concentration per day of a
pollutant based on the analytical results obtained from a 24-hour composite
sample.
   MAY. This is permissive.
   NATIONAL/STATE POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES/KPDES PERMIT.
A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or a permit
issued by the commonwealth under this authority and referred to as KPDES.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317) categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to
such source, if such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of
proposal in the Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than
120 days after proposal, a NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of
which is commenced after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES. All annual operation and maintenance
expenses including replacement costs related directly to operating and
maintaining the sewage works as shown by annual audit.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity of any other legal entity or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the singular
shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredges spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural wastes discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and/or radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes or
process change(s), or other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on a
significant industrial user.
   PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD. Any regulation developed under the authority
of § 307(b) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b), and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned in this instance by the city. This
definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment
plant but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyance not connected to a
facility providing treatment. For the purpose of this chapter, POTW shall also
include any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW from persons outside the
jurisdiction of the city who are users to the city’s POTW.
   PUBLIC SEWERS. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility. In general, the PUBLIC SEWER shall include the main sewer in the
street and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer on
private, property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditure for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and waterborne wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. Domestic or sanitary waste shall
mean the liquid or waterborne wastes from residences, commercial buildings and
institutions and is distinct from industrial sewage. The terms SEWAGE and
WASTEWATER are used interchangeably.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM OR WORKS. All facilities for collecting, transporting,
pumping, treating and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage
system and POTW.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater drainage water.
   SEWER USER CHARGES. A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement, of such works.
   SHALL. This is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of the city’s wastewater disposal
system who: Is subject to a categorical pretreatment standard(s) under 40
C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. part I, subpart N; has a discharge flow of 25,000
gallons or more per average work day of process wastewater; has a flow greater
than 5% of the flow in the city’s wastewater treatment system; has in its
wastewater toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to § 307 of the Act or state
statutes and rules; or is found by the city, state approval authority or the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing users, on the wastewater
treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air
emissions generated by the system.
   SIGNIFICANT VIOLATION. A violation that meets one or more of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits: Those in which
66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month period exceed
(by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the same
pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations: Those in which 33% or
more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a
six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or the
average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC equals one and four-tenths
for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease and one and two-tenths for all other
pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer-term average) that the Superintendent determines has caused, alone or
in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through (including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
other order issued hereunder for starting construction, completing construction
or attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Superintendent
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
   SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including
but not limited to an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge and/or
any discharge of water or wastewater in which the concentration of any given
constituent or the quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow
rate during normal operation and/or adversely affects the POTW.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, U.S. Bureau of the Budget, 1972.
   STATE. The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   STORM DRAIN OR STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, surface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of wastewater facilities, and/or of
wastewater treatment works and/or of water pollution control for the city or
his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SURCHARGE. A charge for service in addition to the basic sewer user and debt
service charge, for those users whose contribution contains biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD), total suspended solids (TSS) or
ammonia nitrogen (NNH) in concentrations which exceed limits specified herein
for such pollutants.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that
is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provisions of § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act or other acts.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effects or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW. See definition of PERSON.
   USER CHARGE. The charge levied on all users, including but not limited to,
persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. Sanitary or domestic wastes
shall mean the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial
buildings and institutions as distinct from industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. As set forth in §§
52.080 through
52.091 of this code.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement or devices and structures for
treating domestic wastewaters and sludges. Sometimes used synonymously as WASTE
TREATMENT PLANT or SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE COMMONWEALTH. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water
courses, water ways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation system,
drainage system and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through or border upon the commonwealth or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 634, passed 5-5-2002)
§ 52.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
ADMI   American Dye Manufacturers Institute
BOD    Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
CWA    Clean Water Act of 1979 (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.)
EPA    Environmental Protection Agency
KPDES  Kentucky pollutant discharge elimination system
l      Liter
mg     Milligram
mg/l   Milligram per liter
NPDES  National pollutant discharge elimination system
POTW   Publicly-owned treatment works
SIC    Standard industrial classification
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.)
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.015 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby
required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 30 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet of
the property line.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as
defined in division (A) above, except as provided for in §§
52.030 and
52.031 of this code.
      (2)   The existence within the city, wherever the services of the city
sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal facilities are available or
may hereafter be made available, of septic tanks, seepage laterals, privies,
earth pits, cesspools, sanitary waste vaults, sewage drainage fields, private
sewage disposal systems or any other such facilities or works for the
disposition of sanitary sewage wastes other than the facilities of the city, is
hereby declared to be a menace to the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens and inhabitants of the city and is hereby determined and
declared to constitute a public nuisance.
      (3)   The existence of such facilities as toilets, sinks, wash basins,
shower baths, bathtubs, any commercial or industrial machinery or device
producing a liquid waste product and the like, in or upon any improved property
or premises in said city where the facilities of the city’s sewage collection,
treatment and disposal system are available or may hereafter be made available
is similarly declared to be a menace to the public health and general welfare
of the city and its inhabitants, unless such facilities are connected to the
city sewage collection, treatment and disposal system. The Superintendent may
prescribe the type and manner of connection to said facilities and may require
that each connection be supervised and inspected by an authorized and qualified
agent of the city’s Sewer Department.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer system in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned
of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and removed.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city in any area under the jurisdiction of said city or into any sewer which
connects to the storm sewer system of the city any objectionable wastewater or
industrial wastes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter. No provision of this
chapter shall be construed to relieve the owner of a discharge to any natural
outlet of the responsibility for complying with applicable state and federal
regulations governing such discharge.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq., the Clean Water Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. (Pub L. 92-
500) and subsequent amendments.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.018 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged through any
leak, defect or connection any unpolluted waters such as stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sanitary
sewer, building sewer, building drain or building plumbing. The Superintendent
or his or her representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the
inside or outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks or defects
to building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any pipes carrying
such water to the building sewer. Such waters shall not be removed through the
dual use of a sanitary drain sump or a sump pump to building sanitary sewer.
Discharge of such waters by a manual switch-over from sanitary sewer to storm
drainage will not be an acceptable method of separation. In case both storm and
sanitary sewage is present, separate drainage or pumping system shall be
included.
   (B)   Stormwater, groundwater and all other unpolluted drainage may be
discharged to such sewers as are used as storm sewers approved by the
Superintendent. Under no circumstances shall sanitary sewage be discharged to a
storm sewer.
   (C)   The owner(s) of any building sewers having such connections, leaks or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.019 SUBSTANCES WHICH INTERFERE.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any wastewater which will interfere with the performance of the
POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW whether or
not the user is subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards or any
other federal, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   A user shall not contribute the following substances to any POTW:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall a waste stream exhibit a
closed cup flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods
specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21. Prohibited materials include, but are not
limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers,
alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides and any other substances which have a closed cup flashpoint
of 140°F (60°C) or less, and any substance which the city, state or EPA has
notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the sanitary sewer system;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than six or higher than nine
and one-half or having any other corrosive property(s) capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the POTW;
      (3)   Any slug load or pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants,
released at a flow or concentration that will cause interference with the
POTW’s operation;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities;
      (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 104°F (40°C);
      (6)   Any pollutant(s) which, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, produce toxic gases, vapors or fumes within the POTW in a quantity
that may cause acute worker health and safety problems;
      (7)   Any substances which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scum to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POWWOW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a
substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with
sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under §
405 of the Act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or
disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic
Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or state criteria
applicable to the sludge management method being used;
      (8)   Any substance which causes the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
permit, sludge disposal permit or the water quality standards of the receiving
stream;
      (9)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through at the POTW;
and
      (10)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002) Penalty, see §
52.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 52.030 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§§
52.015 through
52.019 of this code, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public
sewer system is available to a private wastewater disposal system complying
with the provisions of applicable local and state regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city. When
it becomes necessary, the sludge may be disposed of only as approved by the
city, by operators licensed by the city for such purposes.
   (C)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable
local, state or federal regulations.
   (D)   Industries with current NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted
discharge points provided they are in compliance with the conditions of said
permit.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.031 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or state regulations. Before commencement of
construction of a private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain
a written permit issued by the county’s Health Department after approval of the
system by the local and state authorities if required. The application for such
permit shall be made on a form furnished by the county’s Health Department
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the county’s Health Department.
   (B)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local and state
authorities, if required. These authorities shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction, and in any event the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.045 PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes and building sewer permits required: For
residential; and for service to commercial, industrial and other non-domestic
establishments. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. Applicants for service to
commercial and industrial establishments shall be required to furnish
information about all waste producing activities, wastewater characteristics
and constituents. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Superintendent or his or her agent. Details regarding commercial and industrial
permits include but are not limited to those required by this chapter. Permit
and inspection fees shall be paid to the city at the time the application is
filed.
   (B)   Users shall notify the Superintendent of the POTW of any proposed new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any proposed change in the volume or
character of the wastewater being discharged to the POTW a minimum of 30 days
prior to the change. The Superintendent may deny or condition this new
introduction or change based upon the information submitted in the
notification.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.046 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connections of roof downspouts, basement wall seepage
or floor seepage, exterior foundation drains, area way drains or other sources
of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such
connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of the effective date of
this chapter. The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks
or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources. Pipes,
sumps and pumps for such sources of ground and surface water shall be separate
from wastewater facilities. Removal of such sources of water without presence
of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to the public sanitary
sewer.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 52.060 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The following described substances, materials, waters or waste shall be
limited in discharge to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities which
will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or equipment,
will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or will not otherwise
endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set additional limitations or limitations more stringent
than those established in this subchapter if in his or her opinion such more
severe limitations are necessary to meet objectives. In forming his or her
opinion as to the acceptability, the Superintendent shall give consideration to
such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant and other pertinent factors.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.061 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   The following discharges are restricted:
   (A)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil origin;
   (B)   Wastewater from industrial plants, commercial business or other non-
domestic connections containing floatable oils, fat or grease, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter or containing
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F
(0°C) and 150°F (65°C);
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers;
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interactions with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW or to exceed
the limitations set forth in a federal pretreatment standard. A toxic pollutant
shall include but not be limited to any pollutant identified pursuant to § 307
(a) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a);
   (E)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state and/or federal regulations;
   (F)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system or create a condition deleterious to
structures and treatment processes;
   (G)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removable in the POTW, but
in no case, wastewater with a color at the introduction into the POTW that
exceeds 300 ADMI units;
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving stream of the POTW;
   (I)   (1)   Any water or waste which has characteristics based on a 24-hour
composite sample, grab or a shorter period composite sample if more
representative, which exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater
parameter concentrations:
 
Parameter Daily Maximum Allowable Concentration Without Surcharge
BOD       250 mg/l
NH-N      30 mg/l
TSS       250 mg/l
 
      (2)   Discharges greater than these concentrations may be subject to
penalties contained in the Enforcement Response Plan for the city in addition
to surcharge.
   (J)   The city has received authority through U.S. EPA and state statutes to
enforce the requirements of 40 C.F.R. subpart N and 40 C.F.R. part 403. All
users shall comply with the requirements of those regulations as well as with
all sections of this chapter;
   (K)   (1)   Any waste or wastewater classified as a hazardous waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.,
without at least a 60-day prior notification of such discharge to the
Superintendent of the POTW.
      (2)   This notification must include the name of the waste, EPA hazardous
waste number, type of discharge, volume/mass of discharge and time of
occurrence. The Superintendent may deny or condition this discharge at any
time; and
   (L)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of any
wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system.
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration
Parameter             Maximum Daily Concentration
Arsenic, total        0.10 mg/l
Cadmium, total        0.06 mg/l
Chromium, total       1.0 mg/l
Copper, total         1.1 mg/l
Cyanide, total        0.10 mg/l
Lead, total           0.3 mg/l
Mercury, total        0.01 mg/l
Nickel, total         0.7 mg/l
Oil and grease, total 100 mg/l
pH                    6 to 9.5
Silver, total         0.1 mg/l
Zinc, total           1.5 mg/l
 
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.062 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or for any other pollutant-specific
limitation developed by the city or the commonwealth.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.063 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when in the opinion of
the Superintendent they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable oils and/or greases in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In
the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for
the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material
and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal. The city may
require reporting of such information for their review. Any removal and hauling
of the collected materials not performed by the owner’s personnel must be
performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms. Interceptors shall also
comply with applicable regulations of the county’s Health Department.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.064 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly-owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972,
being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and later amendments, all pretreatment
standards promulgated by the U.S. EPA under 40 C.F.R. subpart N and 40 C.F.R.
part 403 for new and existing industrial discharges to public sewer systems are
hereby made a part of this chapter. Any industrial waste discharge which
violates these EPA pretreatment standards shall be in violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (C)   Any person who transports septic tank contents, seepage pit or
cesspool contents, liquid industrial waste or other batch liquid waste and
wishes to discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first obtain
permission for such discharge from the Superintendent. All persons receiving
such permission shall abide by all applicable provisions of this chapter and
any other special provisions that may be established by the Superintendent as
necessary for the proper operation and maintenance of the sewerage system.
Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the public sewer
system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee schedule
established by the Superintendent and approved by the city. It shall be illegal
to discharge any batch liquid waste into any manhole or other part of the
public sewer system, or any building sewer or other facility that discharges to
the public sewer system, except at points of discharge designated by the
Superintendent for such purposes. Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging
to the public sewer system shall be subject to immediate revocation of
discharge privileges (if granted) and further subject to the penalties and
enforcement actions prescribed in §
52.999 of this code. Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with the county’s Health Department, state or
federal regulations.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.065 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each significant industrial user shall provide protection from
accidental and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or other substances
regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental and slug discharges
of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user’s
own cost and expense. Once every two years, the Superintendent will determine
whether each significant industrial user needs to develop a plan to control
slug discharges.
      (2)   If the Superintendent decides that a slug control plan is needed,
the plan shall contain the following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for notifying the POTW; and
         (d)   Prevention procedures for spills.
      (3)   In the case of all possible or actual accidental and/or slug
discharges, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include the location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume and corrective actions
taken.
   (B)   Within five days following an accidental and/or slug discharge, the
user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report describing
the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by this subchapter, the Enforcement Response
Plan or other applicable law or regulation.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause or
suffer such dangerous discharges to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedures.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.066 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal regulations and limitations or those
in this chapter.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.067 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by a majority vote of its
commissioners, more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
POTW at the recommendation of the Superintendent or if deemed necessary to
comply with the objectives presented in this chapter.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.068 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Upon the promulgation of federal categorical pretreatment standards
for a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more
stringent than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall notify all affected users of the applicable
reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
§ 52.080 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city and/or to the POTW any
wastewater except as authorized by the Superintendent in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any agency and/or industries outside the jurisdiction of the
city that wish to contribute wastewaters to the POTW must first sign (through
an authorized representative) an inter-jurisdictional agreement whereby the
agency and/or industrial user agrees to be regulated by all provisions of this
chapter, state and federal regulations.
      (2)   An industrial user discharge permit may then be issued by the
Superintendent in accordance with §
52.081 of this code.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.081 INDUSTRIAL USER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or
contribute to the POTW shall obtain an industrial user discharge permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. All existing significant industrial
users connected to or contributing to the POTW shall apply for an industrial
user discharge permit within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit application.
      (1)   Users required to obtain an industrial user discharge permit shall
complete and file with the city an application in the form prescribed by the
city. Existing users shall apply for an industrial user discharge permit within
30 days of the effective date of this chapter and proposed new users shall
apply at least 90 days prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
      (2)   In support of the application, the user shall submit in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation the following information, in addition to any
other information the Superintendent may desire:
         (a)   Name, address and location of facility and owner(s) if different
from that given;
         (b)   SIC number(s) according to the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, U.S. Bureau of the Budget, 1912, as amended;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to §
304(g) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1314(g), and contained in 40 C.F.R. part
136, as amended and 40 C.F.R. part 261;
         (d)   Time and duration of contribution;
         (e)   Daily average and maximum wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size,
location and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (h)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by any city, state or federal pretreatment
standards and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment
is required for the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
         (i)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standards. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
            1.   The schedule must be acceptable to the city;
            2.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards; and
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be let on such date, and if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay and the
steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established.
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process and rate of
production;
         (k)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (l)   Number of employees and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of the pretreatment system;
         (m)   A copy of the industry’s written environmental control program,
comparable document or policy; and
         (n)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Issuance of industrial user discharge permit. The Superintendent shall
evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the Superintendent may
issue an industrial user discharge permit subject to the terms and conditions
provided herein.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.082 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a federal categorical
pretreatment standard, the industrial user discharge permit of any user subject
to that standard shall be revised to require compliance with the standard
within the time frame prescribed by such standard.
   (B)   Where a user subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards has
not previously submitted an application for an industrial user discharge permit
as required, the user shall apply for the permit within 90 days of the date of
promulgation of the applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard. In
addition, the user with an existing industrial user discharge permit shall
submit to the Superintendent within 90 days of the date of promulgation of an
applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard the information required
by this chapter.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.083 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Industrial user discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the city. Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the public sewer system;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling to be performed, types and standards of
analysis and reporting schedules;
      (6)   Compliance schedule(s);
      (7)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining all records relating to
wastewater discharge as specified by the city for a minimize of three years,
and afford city access thereto;
      (8)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
      (10)   Requirements for the user to reimburse the city for all expenses
related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction of the
Superintendent and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user is in
compliance with the said permit; and
      (11)   Any other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Superintendent
and/or the city to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Where an effluent from an industrial process is mixed prior to
treatment with wastewaters other than those generated by the regulated process,
fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the discharge permit by
the Superintendent. These alternative limits shall be applied to the mixed
effluent. These alternative limits shall be calculated using the combined waste
stream formula and/or flow-weighted average formula given in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(e). Where the effluent limits in a categorical pretreatment standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production
(production-based standard), the Superintendent may convert the limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant that may be
discharged per day or of effluent concentration for purposes of calculating
effluent permit limitations applicable to the permittee. The permittee shall be
subject to all permit limits calculated in this manner under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6
(c) and must fully comply with these alternative limits. All categorical
industrial users subject to production-based standards must report production
rates annually so that alternative permit limits can be calculated if
necessary. The categorical industrial user must notify the Superintendent 30
days in advance of any change in production levels that might affect the flow
or other data used to calculate the effluent limits in the discharge permit.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.084 PERMIT DURATION.
   Industrial user discharge permits shall be issued for a specified time
period, not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than
a year or may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for
permit re-issuance a minimum of 120 days prior to the expiration of the user’s
existing permit. The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modification by the city during the term of the permit as limitations or
requirements identified in §§
52.060 through
52.068 of this code are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be
informed of any proposed changes in their permit at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a reasonable time frame for compliance.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.085 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Industrial user discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a
specific operation. An industrial user discharge permit shall not be reassigned
or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation without, at a minimum, a 30-day prior notification of the
change to the Superintendent and provision of a copy of the existing permit to
the new owner. The Superintendent may deny the transfer of the permit if it is
deemed necessary to comply with all provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.086 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEES.
   (A)   Reporting requirements. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
user, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW,
any user subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards and requirements
shall submit to the Superintendent a report indicating the nature and
concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process or
processes which are limited by categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these process units in
the user’s facility which are limited by such categorical standards and
requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable categorical
pretreatment standards and requirements are being met on a consistent basis
and, if not, what additional pretreatment equipment and time schedule are
necessary to bring the user into compliance with the applicable categorical
standard or requirement. This statement shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the user.
   (B)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   All significant industrial users shall submit to the Superintendent
during the months of June and December, unless required more frequently by a
pretreatment standard, or the industrial user discharge permit, a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent. At a
minimum, all pollutants are limited by such pretreatment standards or the
industrial user discharge permit. In addition, this report shall include a
record of all daily flows. The industrial user shall submit all data collected
regarding pollutants and flow to the pretreatment coordinator. At the
discretion of the Superintendent and in consideration of such factors as local
high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the like, the
Superintendent may agree to alter the months during which the above reports are
to be submitted. Such agreement shall be in writing appended to the industrial
user discharge permit.
      (2)   All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory acceptable to the
city. Analytical procedures shall be in accordance with procedures established
by the EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136
and amendments thereto or with any other test procedures approved by the EPA.
Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the techniques approved by the
EPA.
      (3)   Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant in question sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication
Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants, April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the U.S. EPA.
      (4)   All industrial users shall retain all pretreatment records for a
minimum of three years, as required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(O)(2).
   (C)   Baseline monitoring report (BMR).
      (1)   A baseline monitoring report (BMR) must be submitted to the
Superintendent by all categorical industrial users at least 90 days prior to
initiation of discharge to the sanitary sewer. The BMR must contain, at a
minimum, the following:
         (a)   Production data including a process description, SIC code
number, raw materials used, chemicals used and final product(s) produced;
         (b)   Name of facility contact person;
         (c)   Wastewater characteristics such as total plant flow, types of
discharges, average and maximum flows from each process;
         (d)   Nature and concentration of pollutants discharged to the public
sewer system that are regulated by this chapter, state and/or federal
pretreatment standards and sample type and location; and
         (e)   Information concerning any pretreatment equipment used to treat
the facility’s discharge.
      (2)   All new sources of industrial discharge must be in compliance with
all provisions of this chapter prior to commencement of discharge.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.087 PERMIT VIOLATION.
   All significant industrial users must notify the Superintendent within 24
hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation. This notification shall
include the date of the violation, the parameter violated and the amount in
exceedance. Within 30 days of first becoming aware of a permit violation, the
significant industrial user must resample for the parameter(s) violated and
submit this sample analysis to the Superintendent, unless the Superintendent,
on behalf of the city, conducts monitoring of this parameter within that 30-day
period.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.088 MONITORING.
   (A)   The city shall require significant industrial users to provide and
operate at the user’s own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection,
sampling and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage
system. The monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s
premises, but the city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause
undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in a public
right-of-way. The Superintendent shall review and approve the location, plans
and specifications for such monitoring facilities and may require them to be
constructed to provide for the separate monitoring and sampling of industrial
waste and sanitary sewage flows. There shall be ample room in or near such
sampling manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of
samples for analysis. The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense
of the user. Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling
and monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
approval of the location plans and specifications.
   (B)   All sampling analyses done in accordance with approved EPA procedures
(40 C.F.R. part 136) by the significant industrial user during a reporting
period shall be submitted to the Superintendent, regardless of whether or not
that analysis was required by the user’s discharge permit.
   (C)   The significant industrial user must receive the approval of the
Superintendent before changing the sampling point and/or monitoring facilities
to be used in all required sampling.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.089 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The Superintendent shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain
whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or its representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purpose of inspection,
sampling, copying and examination of records or in the performance of their
duties. Reasonable times shall include any time during which the user is
discharging to the public sewer system and/or operating any manufacturing
process. The city, approval authority and the EPA shall have the right to set
up on the user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspections, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry onto their premises, the user shall make the necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city, approval authority and the EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purpose of performing its specific
duties.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.090 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   (1)   All significant industrial users shall provide necessary
wastewater treatment as required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve
compliance with all applicable federal categorical pretreatment standards
within the time limits as specified by the federal pretreatment regulations.
      (2)   The city may require the development of a compliance schedule for
installation of pretreatment technology and/or equipment by any significant
industrial user that is not meeting discharge limits established in the user’s
industrial user discharge permit.
      (3)   Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level
acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s
expense.
      (4)   Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review and shall be
acceptable to the Superintendent before construction of the facility. The
review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the
user’s initiation of the change.
   (B)   The city is required by federal regulations to keep the public
informed of all cases of significant violations. To accomplish this, the city
shall annually publish in a newspaper of local circulation a list of the users
which were in significant noncompliance with any pretreatment requirements or
standards. Significant noncompliance is any significant violation that meets
one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Results in the exercise of emergency authority by the
Superintendent;
      (2)   Remains uncorrected 45 days after notice of noncompliance is given;
      (3)   Involves failure to report noncompliance accurately; and
      (4)   Wastewater violations:
         (a)   Chronic violations: Those in which 66% or more of all
measurements taken during a six-month period exceed, by any magnitude, the
daily maximum limit or the monthly average limit for the same pollutant
parameter;
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations: Those in which 33%
or more of all measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a six-
month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or the
monthly average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC. TRC equals one and one-
fourth for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease and one and one-half for all other
pollutants except pH;
         (c)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the
Superintendent believes has caused alone or in combination with other
discharges, interference or pass-through or has endangered the health of the
POTW’s personnel or the public;
         (d)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health or
to the environment or resulting in the Superintendent’s use of his or her
emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, failure to comply
with schedule milestones for starting or completing construction or attaining
final compliance by 90 days or more after the schedule date;
         (f)   Failure to provide required reports within 30 days of the due
date; and
         (g)   Any violation or group of violations which the Superintendent
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program. The public notification shall also summarize any
enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12 months. All
records relating to the pretreatment program of the city shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request. All
records shall be maintained for a minimum of three years in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(O)(2).
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.091 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from, inspections
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods or production
entitled to protection as trade secrets or the user.
   (B)   (1)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions
of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be
made available for inspection by the public but shall be made available to all
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES/KPDES permit,
sludge disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment program upon request of
the agency. Such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state
or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the
person furnishing the report.
      (2)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be recognized
as confidential information and shall be available to the public without
restriction.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
FEES
§ 52.105 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW
for the implementation and conduct of the pretreatment program established
herein. The applicable charges or fees are set forth in the city’s schedule of
charges and fees, enacted by separate Ordinance 610.17, reference to which is
hereby made.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.106 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include the following:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city’s pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit application;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of excessive strength
conventional pollutants;
      (7)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained in this chapter; and
      (8)   Fees for the connection of a discharger (residential or other).
These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and are
separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
   (B)   Charges shall be comprised of a system of excessive strength
surcharges and a system of charges for debt services, operation and maintenance
costs including normal replacement costs.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 52.120 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The Superintendent and other duly promulgated employees and representatives
of the city and authorized representatives of applicable federal and state
regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties at any reasonable time for purposes of, but
not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing of
discharges to the public sewer system and inspection and copying of all records
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.121 RIGHT TO OBTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING DISCHARGE.
   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city are authorized to
obtain information concerning character, strength and quantity of industrial
wastes which have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
wastewater collection system.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.122 ACCESS TO EASEMENT.
   (A)   Duly authorized employees and representatives of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement and
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement.
   (B)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be done
in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to
the private property involved.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.123 SAFETY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.120 of this code, all duly authorized employees of the city shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the facility and the
company shall be held blameless for any injury or death to the city employee.
The city shall secure the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.135 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the Superintendent finds that any industrial user has
violated or is violating this chapter, or a wastewater permit or order issued
hereunder, the Superintendent or his or her agent may serve upon said user
written notice of the violation.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt date of this notice, an explanation
of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention
thereof, to include specific, required actions, shall be submitted to the
Superintendent.
      (2)   Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability
for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation.
   (B)   Consent orders.
      (1)   The Superintendent is hereby empowered to enter into consent
orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the industrial user responsible for the
noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the
industrial user to correct the noncompliance within a time period also
specified by the order.
      (2)   Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as
administrative orders issued pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The Superintendent may order any industrial user who causes or
contributes to violation of this chapter or wastewater permit or order issued
hereunder, to show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
      (2)   (a)   Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and
place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action and the reasons for such
action, and a request that the user show cause why this proposed enforcement
action should not be taken.
         (b)   The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days prior
to the hearing.
         (c)   Such notice may be served on any principal executive, general
partner or corporate officer.
         (d)   Whether or not a duly notified industrial user appears as
noticed, immediate enforcement action may be pursued.
   (D)   Compliance order.
      (1)   When the Superintendent finds that an industrial user has violated
or continues to violate the ordinance or a permit or order issued thereunder,
he or she may issue an order to the industrial user responsible for the
discharge directing that, following a specific time period, sewer service shall
be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances have been installed and are properly operated.
      (2)   Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including
the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring and
management practices.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders. When the Superintendent finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit
or order issues hereunder, the Superintendent may issue an order to cease and
desist all such violations and direct those persons in noncompliance to:
      (1)   Comply forthwith; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge.
   (F)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The Superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service
and/or wastewater permit of an industrial user whenever such suspension is
necessary in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge presenting or
causing an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, the city or the environment.
      (2)   (a)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate its
contribution.
         (b)   A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of
suspension to determine whether the suspension shall be lifted or the user’s
wastes discharge permit terminated.
         (c)   In the event of a user’s failure to immediately comply,
voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent shall take such steps
as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to
prevent or minimize damage to the city, its receiving stream or endangerment to
any individuals.
         (d)   The Superintendent shall allow the user to recommence its
discharge when the endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings
set forth in division (G) below are initiated against the user.
      (3)   An industrial user responsible, in whole or in part, for imminent
endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of
the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence to the Superintendent prior to the date of the hearing described in
division (F)(2) above.
   (G)   Termination of permit. Any user who violates the following conditions
of this chapter or a wastewater discharge permit or order, or any applicable or
state and federal law, is subject to permit termination:
      (1)   Violation of permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
constituents and characteristics; or
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.136 JUDICIAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
into the wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter
or any order or permit issued hereunder, the Superintendent, through the City
Attorney, may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief
in the county’s circuit court.
   (B)   Whenever an industrial user has violated or continues to violate the
provisions of this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the
Superintendent, through counsel may petition the court for the issuance of a
preliminary or permanent injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which
restrains or compels the activities on the part of the industrial user.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.137 SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Annual publication of significant violations.
      (1)   The Superintendent shall publish, at least annually in the largest
daily newspaper circulated in the service area, a description of those
industrial users found to be in significant noncompliance, as defined below,
with any provisions of this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder
during the period since the previous publication.
      (2)   For the purposes of this provision, an industrial user is in
significant noncompliance if its violation meets one or more of the following
criteria:
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits: Those in
which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month period
exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the
same pollutant parameter;
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations: Those in which 33%
or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a
six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or the
average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC. TRC equals one and one-fourth
for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease and one and two-tenths for all other
pollutants except pH;
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily
maximum or longer-term average) that the Control Authority determines has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass
through (including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in
the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority under paragraph (f)(1)(vi)(B) of
this section to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
         (f)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations which the control
authority determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of
the local pretreatment program.
   (B)   Performance bonds. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a permit
to any industrial user who has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder unless such user first
files with it a satisfactory bond, payable to the city in a sum not to exceed a
value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
   (C)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit
issued hereunder, water service to the industrial user may be severed and
service will only recommence, at the user’s expense, after it has
satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.138 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   Treatment upsets.
      (1)   Any industrial user who experiences an upset in operations that
places it in a temporary state of noncompliance, which is the result of
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper
operation, shall inform the Superintendent thereof immediately upon becoming
aware of the upset. Where such information is given orally, a written report
thereof shall be filed by the user within five days. The report shall contain:
         (a)   A description of the upset, its cause(s) and impact on the
discharger’s compliance status;
         (b)   The duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
of noncompliance, and if the noncompliance is continuing, the time by which
compliance is reasonably expected to be restored; and
         (c)   All steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of such an upset.
      (2)   An industrial user who complies with the notification provisions of
this section in a timely manner shall have an affirmative defense to any
enforcement action brought by the Superintendent for any noncompliance with
this chapter, or an order or permit issued hereunder by the user, which arises
out of violations attributable to and alleged to have occurred during the
period of the documented and verified upset.
   (B)   Treatment bypasses. A bypass of the treatment system is prohibited.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any industrial user who has violated or continues to violate this
chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be liable to the
Superintendent for a civil penalty of not more than the maximum allowable under
state law, e.g., $5,000 but at least $1,000, state law permitting, plus actual
damages incurred by the city per violation per day for as long as the violation
continues. In addition to the above described penalty and damages, the
Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with the enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses.
      (2)   The Superintendent shall petition the court to impose, assess and
recover such sums. In determining amount of liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the industrial user’s violation, corrective
actions by the industrial user, the compliance history of the user and any
other factor as justice requires.
   (B)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   Violations generally.
         (a)   Any industrial user who willfully or negligently violates any
provision of this chapter or any order or permits issued hereunder shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or
both.
         (b)   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $5,000 per violation per day or imprisonment
for not more than three years or both.
      (2)   Falsifying information.
         (a)   Any industrial user who knowingly makes any false statements,
representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or
other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or
wastewater permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500 per violation or
imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
         (b)   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $5,000 per violation or imprisonment for not
more than three years or both.
      (3)   Destruction of POTW and legal action. No person(s) shall
maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, uncover, deface or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the POTW. Any
person(s) violating this provision shall be subject to criminal prosecution. It
is noted that the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. (Pub. L. 92-
500), does not require proof of specific intent to obtain conviction.
   (C)   Administrative fines. Notwithstanding any other section of this
chapter, any user who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter,
or permits and orders issued hereunder, shall be fined in an amount not to
exceed $1,000 per violation. Each day on which noncompliance shall occur or
continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation. Such assessments
may be added to the user’s next scheduled sewer service charge and the
Superintendent shall have such other collection remedies as he or she has to
collect other service charges. Unpaid charges, fines and penalties shall
constitute a lien against the individual user’s property provided that notice
of the same shall be filed in the office of the county’s Court Clerk.
Industrial users desiring to dispute such fines must file a request for the
Superintendent to reconsider the fine within ten days of being notified of the
fine. Where the Superintendent believes a request has merit, he or she shall
convene a hearing on the matter within 15 days of receiving the request from
the industrial user.
(Ord. 634, passed 3-5-2002)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   FUNERALS AND PARADES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Signal legends
   
70.21   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to signals
   
70.23   Interference with signals
   
70.24   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.25   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.26   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney’s office when on official
business and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   BOULEVARD. Any legally designated street at which cross-traffic is required
to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the extension of the
sidewalk across any intersection and such other portions of the roadway between
two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and marked
by stanchions, paint lines or otherwise.
   CURB. The boundary of the portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   FUNERAL PROCESSION. Two or more vehicles accompanying the body of a deceased
person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a pennant
attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching traffic.
(KRS 189.378(1))
   INTERSECTION. The part of the public way embraced within the extensions of
the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or not
one such street crosses the other.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, warnings, directions,
markings and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority of the Chief
of Police.
   ONE-WAY STREET. A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   OPERATOR. Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting and stopping of a vehicle.
   PARK. When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PLAY STREET. Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 of this code or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this
traffic code.
   PUBLIC WAY. The entire width between property lines of every way, dedicated
passway or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths and foot
paths.
   REVERSE TURN. To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to proceed
in the opposite direction.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   ROADWAY. The portion of any street, improved, designated or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb and the property line
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STOPPING. As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is actually
necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   STREET. Every public way, including alleys.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden and herded animals, vehicles, buses and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   VEHICLE. Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or property
over or upon the public highways of the commonwealth and all vehicles passing
over or upon the highways.
   VEHICLE, MOTOR. Includes all vehicles, as in the definition of VEHICLE above
except: Road rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on which power
shovels are mounted; construction equipment customarily used only on the site
of construction and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails;
vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires while being
operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more than
five miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; and vehicles propelled
by muscular power.
(KRS 189.010(19))
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the U.S. Government, this state, county
or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this traffic
code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, every person driving any animal on any roadway and every person
driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of this
traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions
of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle or any other signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his or her discretion, have authority to impose such traffic
regulations as he or she may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed
two weeks. If these temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer
than two weeks, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the
extended order.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “go,” “caution,” or “stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “go.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turns. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such
signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “caution” when shown following the green or
“go” signal. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “stop.” Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line and shall remain
standing until green or “go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line and shall not again proceed until
it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing yellow alone. Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall
reduce its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by
such signal.
   (F)   “Yield right-of-way.” Vehicular traffic facing the “yield right-of-
way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “yield right-of-way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 mph, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles entering an
expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights. When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing yellow lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing yellow lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control
devices necessary within the city.
   (B)   All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall be employed to
indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform and as far as
possible shall be placed uniformly.
   (C)   All traffic-control devices and signs shall conform to required state
specifications.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate or watchperson at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by
a police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.18)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic device or
railroad sign or signal which attempt or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial advertising. Nothing
in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department or
public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.26 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency, any police officer may, at his or her discretion, disregard
traffic-control lights or signals or established regulations in order to
facilitate the movement of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(KRS 189.990(1)) (Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limits
Accidents
   
71.20   Duty of operator
   
71.21   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.35   Reckless driving; injury to streets
   
71.36   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.37   Smoke emission or other nuisances
   
71.38   Toy vehicles on sidewalks
 
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   (1)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance.
      (2)   Should the operator of any vehicle enter any intersection so marked
when there is insufficient room on the other side of the intersection to
accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-control signal
notwithstanding, he or she shall be deemed to have violated this division (C)
rather than division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8)) (Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the
vehicle at any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement.
   (B)   A vehicle from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in
such manner as to proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful
direction of travel.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive
the vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building or lot and across a sidewalk,
or its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension.
      (2)   On entering the roadway from the alley, driveway or building the
operator shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway. The operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn
into an alley from the roadway may do so at low speed and with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No operator of a vehicle upon a highway in the city shall drive at a
greater speed than is reasonable and prudent, having regard for the traffic and
for the condition and use of the highway.
   (B)   When no condition exists that requires lower speed for compliance with
division (A) above, no operator of a vehicle shall exceed a speed of 15 mph on
all of Cubbage Avenue, 25 mph on Adams Street between Blanton Street and Adair
Street, or on Seminary Street between Cherry Alley and Adams Street, or a speed
of 35 mph on any other thoroughfare in the city.
   (C)   The speed limitations set forth in this section should not apply to an
authorized emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency call, or when
responding to but not returning from a fire alarm. This provision shall not
relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive
with due regard for the safety of all persons using this street, nor shall it
protect the driver of any such vehicle from the consequences of a reckless
disregard of the safety of others, nor relieve him or her from the duty of
making such signals as are necessary. An AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE shall
mean any police vehicle at all times, or an ambulance and fire apparatus when
operated in connection with an emergency.
   (D)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway in the city shall operate
the vehicle in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of
pedestrians and other vehicles upon the highway.
(Prior Code, § 71.05) (Ord. 236, passed 6-25-1953; Ord. 243, passed 9-6-1954;
Ord. 596, passed 1-7-1997) Penalty, see §
71.99
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.20 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator of or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 71.15) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.21 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 71.16) Penalty, see §
71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.35 RECKLESS DRIVING; INJURY TO STREETS.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure the highway.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in
such a manner as to injure vehicles or equipment located in or near a highway
work zone.
   (D)   A person shall not operate any vehicle in a reckless or negligent
manner as to endanger persons or property in or near a highway, or in or near a
highway work zone.
   (E)   In addition to any other penalty, an operator who violates division
(C) or (D) of this section shall be subject to revocation of his or her
operator's license under KRS 186.560.
(KRS 189.290) (Prior Code, § 71.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)    Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with and operating
one or more flashing, rotating or oscillating red or blue lights visible under
normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the emergency
vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle
or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way,
immediately drive to a position parallel to and as close as possible to the
edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection and stop and remain
stopped until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed
by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)    Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity
with the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall remain stopped until the
emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer or
firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he or she is on official business,
shall follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the
provisions of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he or she
drive into, park the vehicle into or park the vehicle within the block where
the vehicle has stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he or
she is directed otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a Fire Department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway or track for use at any fire or fire alarm unless the Fire
Department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)    The provisions of division (F) of this section shall apply to any
driver approaching a stationary:
      (1)   Emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when the emergency
vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal by displaying alternatively
flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or blue lights; or
      (2)   Disabled vehicle, when the disabled vehicle is displaying some type
of warning signal, such as emergency flashers, flares, or retroreflective
signals.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle that is approaching a vehicle described in
division (E) of this section shall, while proceeding with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with at least two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the approaching
vehicle; and
         (b)   It is not possible to make the land change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions.
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if the road has less than four lanes or if changing lanes would be
impossible or unsafe.
   (G)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930) (Prior Code, § 71.26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.37 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCES.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020) (Prior Code, § 71.27) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.38 TOY VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No one shall be allowed to use on the sidewalks of the city: Roller and ice
skates; coasters; scooters; wagons; sleds; bicycles or tricycles; skateboards;
or any similar items.
(Prior Code, § 71.28) (Ord. 84, passed 9-3-1915) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
(KRS 189.990(1))
   (B)   Whoever violates §
71.05 of this code shall, upon conviction, be subject to the same fine as set
forth in the fine schedule for speed violations in KRS 189.394.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.35 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $250 or imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both.
(KRS 189.378)
   (D)   Any person who violates §
71.36 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less
than $60 nor more than $500 or be imprisoned in the county jail for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 189.993(8))
(Prior Code, § 71.99)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with permits for persons with disabilities
   
72.13   Parking of large vehicles limited
   
72.14   Parking on private property
Impounding
   
72.25   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.26   Required notice to owner
   
72.27   Sale of vehicle
Snow Emergency
   
72.40   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.41   Termination of emergency
   
72.42   Snow emergency routes
Loading and Unloading Zones
   
72.55   Limitations on loading or unloading of passengers and freight
 
   
72.99   Penalty
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction or hindrance in or on any street,
alley or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side, the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   (1)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except
that wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading; provided, that
such loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not
consume more than 30 minutes.
      (2)   Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all times and on
all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed interferes with the
use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road space within ten feet of
the center line of the street.
   (D)   (1)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places,
requiring the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a
certain portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking
shall not be established where the roadway space required therefor would be
within ten feet of the center line of any street.
      (2)   Such diagonal parking places shall be designated by suitable signs
and shall indicate by markings on the pavement the required angle and the width
of the roadway space within which such vehicle shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
such vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the
provisions of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic
sign or signal at any time in the following places:
      (1)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place
in the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02 of this code;
      (2)   On a sidewalk;
      (3)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities;
      (4)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (5)   Within an intersection or crosswalk;
      (6)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking.
This does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified
vehicles during the performance of their official duties;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, traffic sign or traffic-
control device; and
      (8)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her
control into any such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450(5), (6))
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to park any kind of
vehicle or place any obstruction within ten feet of any fire hydrant within the
city limits.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on any street or alley in the
city, so marked on the curb by yellow paint, or by sign or other traffic-
control device indicating that parking in such place is prohibited.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle for more than two continuous
hours on any street or alley in the city so marked on the curb by sign or other
traffic-control device indicating that parking in such place is restricted as
set forth in this division (D). Each continuous two-hour period shall
constitute a separate violation.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place,
park or leave standing upon any street or alley in the city, any junked vehicle
or any vehicle not capable of operation under its own power or in disabled
condition. The owner or operator of any vehicle which becomes disabled while
being operated upon any street or alley in the city shall have three hours in
which to remove or cause to be removed said vehicle from said street or alley.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place,
park or leave standing any vehicle upon any street in the city within 80 feet
of the center of the intersection of any two streets over which run state and/
or federal highways.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place,
park or leave standing a truck, wrecker, wagon, trailer, school bus or public
vehicle, upon any street in the city traversed by a federal highway, for a
longer period than one hour.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place,
park or leave standing upon any street not mentioned in division (G) above or
prior ordinances, or upon any alley in the city any truck, wrecker, wagon,
trailer, school bus or public bus or public vehicle for a longer period of time
than eight consecutive hours.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to place, park or leave standing any vehicle on
any street in the city, traversed by a federal highway, between the hours of
12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place,
park or leave standing any vehicle or any obstruction within 15 feet of the
entrance to the firehouse in the city.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place,
park or leave standing on any street or alley in the city, any vehicle so as to
block said street or alley.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place,
park or leave standing any truck, wrecker, wagon, trailer, school bus or public
vehicle on any street within 50 feet of the front of any church property in the
city.
   (M)   Parking shall be limited in the Business District and in other
designated areas within the city to two hours between the hours of 8:30 a.m.
and 5:30 p.m.
   (N)   Each act of placing, parking or leaving shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (O)   The Mayor shall cause to be erected appropriate markers for the
convenience of the public, but the lack of any markers shall not be a defense
to any prosecution or action brought pursuant to division (E) through (N)
above, or to any claim or lien created thereby. Any person, firm or corporation
who places or parks any vehicle in violation of this section shall be subject
to citation as provided in §
72.99 of this code. The citing officer shall report all violations not paid to
the City Hall within seven days of the provided bylaw. Further, any vehicle or
obstruction which is cited three times in one day for parking violations, or
which is parked in a designated handicapped parking zone without a handicapped
permit, or which is parked in a designated no parking zone or which is parked
or placed on any street or alley in the city, shall, at the discretion of the
citing officer, be towed to an approved impound lot. Any towing or storage
charges as the result of the parking violation shall be assessed to the owner
of the vehicle or obstruction. Should any vehicle or obstruction be not claimed
within 60 days after its removal, the vehicle or obstruction may be sold, and
the proceeds distrusted to pay for towing and storage, expenses incurred by the
city and/or fines adjudged due to the city, with excess proceeds to be paid to
the owner of the vehicle or obstruction.
   (P)   Divisions (E) through (O) above shall not affect any specific
limitations as to time or place or parking set up in prior ordinances, except
when in conflict.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 130, passed 1-27-1934; Ord. 150, passed 3-8-1938;
Ord. 290, passed 5-4-1965; Ord. 450, passed 5-1-1984; Ord. 453, passed 12-4-
1984; Ord. 475, passed 3-5-1987) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his or her duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to handicapped parking, appropriate signs shall be erected giving notice
thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in conjunction therewith,
the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to which parking is
prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall
provide suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting
parking on that particular day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop on any
street so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OF HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle
on any of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or
longer.
   (B)   Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or
streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed
abandoned and shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city
pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his or her judgement it is necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a
part of the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs
to that effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another’s property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned or otherwise trespasses
in violation of division (A) above, a warrant may be obtained in district court
by the owner, lessee or person in charge of the property or facility, and the
Police Department, on written complaint of the owner, lessee or person in
charge, shall remove or cause to be removed the vehicle in accordance with the
provisions of §§
72.25 through
72.27 of this code.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking facility
shall post signs stating thereon that the property or parking lot or facility
is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be removed at the owner’s
expense before exercising the authority granted in division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot or tot lot within the city not
designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a roadway.
However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and regularly
maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two wheels of
the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
(Prior Code, § 72.11) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH PERMITS FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for persons with disabilities, when operated by a
person with disabilities or when transporting a person with disabilities, may
be parked in a designated parking place for persons with disabilities, or when
parked in a metered parking space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or
when parked where any parking limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in
excess of the parking limit. The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone
for that period of time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the person with
disabilities to or from the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than
30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
(Prior Code, § 72.12) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING OF LARGE VEHICLES LIMITED.
   It shall be unlawful to park any commercial tractor and/or trailer, motor
home or any vehicle larger than a pickup truck on the streets or within the
city limits for a period over two hours day or night; unless they are parked in
a private drive, the vehicle is being used by a worker within the city limits
or has a permit from the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 72.13) (Ord. 480, passed 9-1-1987) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.14 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
private parking lot, or other private property within the city, after the
business hours of the business operated on the property, provided however, that
the owner of the property or proprietor of the business operated thereon shall
cause to be posted in a conspicuous place a sign which prohibits parking after
business hours. This prohibition and the penalties provided in §
72.99 of this code shall also extend to passengers in vehicles so illegally
parked.
(Prior Code, § 72.14) (Ord. 592, passed 8-6-1996) Penalty, see §
72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department, a warrant shall be issued immediately
for the violator’s arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle’s release.
   (D)   At the discretion of the police officer, any vehicle parked in an area
designated as no parking, parked in a manner blocking a portion of any street
or alley, parked in a space designated for parking for persons with
disabilities without a visible permit, parked in a space designated as two-hour
parking for more than four hours or abandoned on any street or alley within the
city, may be towed to a secure facility by an individual or corporation
designated by the city for such service. The cost of towing and storing the
vehicle shall be assessed against the registered owner of the vehicle and may
be collected by the individual or corporation towing and storing same as
provided in §§
72.26 and
72.27 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 72.20) (Ord. 577, passed 5-2-1995)
§ 72.26 REQUIRED NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported
pursuant to order of police, other public authority or private person or
business for any reason or when the vehicle has been stolen or misappropriated
and its removal from the public ways has been ordered by police, other public
authority or by a private person or business, or in any other situation where a
motor vehicle has been involuntarily towed or transported by order of police,
other authority or by a private person or business, the police, other authority
or a private person or business shall attempt to ascertain from the state’s
Transportation Cabinet the identity of the registered owner of the motor
vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as defined in KRS Chapter 281, and within
ten business days of the removal shall, by certified mail, attempt to notify
the registered owner at the address of record of the make, model, license
number and vehicle identification number of the vehicle, of the location of the
vehicle and the requirements for securing the release of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   If a vehicle described in division (A) above is placed in a garage or
other storage facility, the owner of the facility shall attempt to provide the
notice provided in division (A) above by certified mail to the registered owner
at the address of record of the motor vehicle or lessor of a motor carrier as
defined in KRS Chapter 281 within ten business days of recovery of, or taking
possession of the motor vehicle. This notice shall contain the information as
to the make, model, license number and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, the location of the vehicle and the amount of reasonable charges due
on the vehicle. When the owner of the facility fails to provide notice as
provided herein, the motor vehicle storage facility shall forfeit all storage
fees accrued after ten business days from the date of tow. This division (B)
shall not apply to a tow lot or storage facility owned or operated by the city.
(KRS 376.275(1), (2)) (Prior Code, § 72.21)
§ 72.27 SALE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor vehicles
in either a private capacity or for the city, who has substantially complied
with the requirements of §
72.26 of this code, shall have a lien on the motor vehicle for the reasonable
or agreed charges for storing or towing the vehicle as long as it remains in
his or her possession.
   (B)   If after a period of 45 days, the reasonable or agreed charges for
storing or towing a motor vehicle have not been paid, the motor vehicle may be
sold to pay the charges after the owner has been notified by certified mail ten
days prior to the time and place of the sale.
   (C)   (1)   If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this
section are insufficient to satisfy accrued charges for towing, transporting
and storage, the sale and collection of proceeds shall not constitute a waiver
or release of responsibility for payment of unpaid towing, transporting and
storage charges by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle.
      (2)   This lien shall be subject to prior recorded liens.
(KRS 376.275(3)) (Prior Code, § 72.22)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.40 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds
that falling snow, sleet or freezing rain will create a condition which makes
it necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on the basis of a firm forecast of
snow, sleet or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may
create a condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he or
she is authorized to announce such prohibition to become effective at a time
specified by him or her. After the effective time of such prohibition, no
person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow
emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain occurs
after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on
snow emergency routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle
parked on a snow emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following
such fall.
   (B)   The prohibition of parking announced by the Chief of Police or other
authorized city official under the authority of this section shall remain in
effect until he or she announces the termination of the snow emergency, in part
or in whole, after which the prohibition of parking authorized by this section
shall no longer be in effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.35) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he or she is authorized to declare the termination
of the emergency, in part or in whole, effective immediately on announcement.
If such announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it
shall be repeated between those hours.
(Prior Code, § 72.36)
§ 72.42 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
(Prior Code, § 72.37)
LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES
§ 72.55 LIMITATIONS ON LOADING OR UNLOADING OF PASSENGERS AND FREIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park any vehicle
operated for the purpose of carrying passengers or freight or passengers and
freight combined on any street or alley in the city, within 15 feet of such
street intersection with any other street or alley in said city limits, or to
park such vehicle within 15 feet of any fire hydrant located in the city
limits.
(Prior Code, § 72.50) (Ord. 134, passed 6-3-1965) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Persons receiving a citation for any parking violation in the city
shall pay a fine of $5 if paid within 24 hours, or $10 if paid in 48 hours. If
not paid within this time, the person in violation shall be subject to a court-
imposed fine of not less than $20 nor more than $100 in accordance with KRS
189.990(1).
   (C)   Any person that violates any provision of §
72.03 shall be deemed a misdemeanor and cited to district court. The fine shall
be no less than $25 and not more than $100.
   (D)   Any person receiving a citation for violation of §
72.14 of this code shall be cited to appear in the county district court and
shall be subject to fines as follows:
      (1)   First offense: Not less than $20 nor more than $50;
      (2)   Second offense: Not less than $50 nor more than $100; and
      (3)   Third or subsequent offense: Not less than $100 nor more than $250
and/or not less than two days nor more than ten days in the county jail.
(Prior Code, § 72.99) (Ord. 540, passed 7-21-1992; Ord. 592, passed 8-6-1996;
Ord. 728, passed 6-4-2013)
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles and Motorcycles
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motor scooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
Golf Carts
   
73.15   Operation of golf carts on public roadways
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motor scooter or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motor scooter or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates, on a skateboard or riding on a coaster sled or toy
vehicle of any kind to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he or she is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board or fenders of
any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.15 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON PUBLIC ROADWAYS.
   (A)   The golf carts authorized and regulated by this section are those as
defined in KRS 189.286(1)(a).
   (B)   The public roadways under the jurisdiction of the city upon which a
golf cart may be operated are as follows: All city maintained streets.
   (C)   (1)   Any golf cart operated on a designated public roadway pursuant
to this section shall:
         (a)   Be issued a permit for the golf cart by the city;
         (b)   Display a sticker or permit that identifies that the golf cart
is allowed to be operated on the specified roadways within the city; and
         (c)   Be inspected annually by an officer of the Police Department and
pay a fee of $15 per year for a permit.
      (2)   No golf cart shall travel on any state-maintained highway. Golf
carts shall have the right to cross state highways when traveling on city
streets.
   (D)   A person may operate a golf cart on the specified public roadways
within the city if:
      (1)   The posted speed limit of the designated public roadway is 35 mph
or less;
      (2)   The operator of the golf cart does not cross the roadway at an
intersection where the roadway being crossed has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 mph;
      (3)   The operator has a valid operator’s license in his or her
possession;
      (4)   The golf cart is being operated between sunrise and sunset; and
      (5)   The golf cart displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem in compliance
with KRS 189.820.
   (E)   A golf cart operating on a specified public roadway under this section
shall be insured in compliance with KRS 304.39-080 by the owner or operator,
and the proof of insurance shall be inside the golf cart at all times of
operation on a public roadway.
   (F)   All other terms and provisions of KRS 189.286, other state statutes
and ordinances of the city shall be followed by the owner and operator of the
golf cart and shall be subject to penalties, fines and citations as are
otherwise applicable in this code of ordinances and pursuant to state statutes.
(Ord. 736, passed 1- -2014) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
73.01 through
73.04 of this code shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be
fined not more than $50 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
   (C)   A violation of any provision or part of §
73.15 of this code shall be deemed a misdemeanor and fined no less than $25 and
no more than $250.
(Ord. 736, passed 1- -2014)
CHAPTER 74: FUNERALS AND PARADES
Section
Funeral Processions
   
74.01   Funeral processions
Parades
   
74.15   Definitions
   
74.16   Permit required
   
74.17   Application for permit
   
74.18   Standards for issuance of permit
   
74.19   Notice of rejection of permit
   
74.20   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
74.21   Alternative permit
   
74.22   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
74.23   Contents of permit
   
74.24   Duties of permittee
   
74.25   Public conduct during parades
   
74.26   Revocation of permit
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 74.01 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other act for the
purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse or other vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing amber lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378) (Prior Code, § 71.35) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARADES
§ 74.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant or procession
of any kind or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk, park or other
public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.40)
§ 74.16 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.17 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   Application requirements. The application for a parade permit shall
set forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the Parade Chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf; and
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (C)   Permit fee. There shall be paid at the time of filing an application
for a parade permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 71.42) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.18 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire; and
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
(Prior Code, § 71.43) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.19 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he or she disapproves the
application, he or she shall mail to the applicant within the three days,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the date on which the
application was filed, a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for
his or her denial of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 71.44)
§ 74.20 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
(Prior Code, § 71.45)
§ 74.21 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.46)
§ 74.22 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief; and
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.47)
§ 74.23 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof; and
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.48) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.24 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The Parade Chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.49) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.25 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
(Prior Code, § 71.50) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.26 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Prior Code, § 71.51)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Thru traffic restricted streets
SCHEDULE I: ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following sections of streets in the city are now designated as one-way
streets:
Street Location Direction Ord. No. Date
Street               Location                      Direction Ord. No. Date
Blanton Street       From South Main Street to     West      760      1-8-2019
                     North Thomas Street
Bryan Street         Between North Main Street and West      548      3-2-1993
                     Cherry Alley
North Madison Street Extending from West Perry     South     462      4-1-1986
                     Street to West Bryan Street
North Madison Street Between West Bryan Street and South     344      5-4-1971
                     West Seminary Street
North Thomas Street  Between West Seminary Street  North     344      5-4-1971
                     and West Bryan Street
South Thomas Street  Between West Seminary Street  South     344      5-4-1971
                     and West Adair Street
Thomas Street        Between Seminary Street and   North     547      3-2-1993
                     Perry Street
West Bryan           Between North Thomas Street   West      344      5-4-1971
                     and North Madison Street
West Bryan           Between North Main Street and West      344      5-4-1971
                     North Thomas Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Sched. I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. THRU TRAFFIC RESTRICTED STREETS.
   On the following streets, thru traffic is restricted as indicated.
 
Street        Restrictions            Penalty                  Ord . Date
              Thru traffic limited to Violations of this
              3/4-ton trucks or       schedule shall be deemed
Carter Street smaller with no         a misdemeanor and fined  743   10-14-2014
              trailers allowed;       no less than $25 and no
              except in emergency     more than $250
              situations
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
      
II.   Restricted parking
      
III.   Loading and unloading zones
SCHEDULE I: PROHIBITED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicles on the following streets or
portions thereof:
Street Location Side Ord. No. Date
Street                 Location                      Side  Ord. No. Date
                       Center of North Thomas Street
Bryan Street           on the west and Main Street   Both  78       9-12-1941
                       on the east
                       Extending in an easterly
Carter Lane            direction from North Adams    Both  417      6-3-1981
                       Street for a distance of
                       approximately 182 feet
                       The west side of Dairy Queen
Highways 22 and 227    on the south side of the      South 560      11-9-1993
                       highways being 66 feet long
                       and 20 feet wide
                       Between the north boundary
                       line of the Owen County
North Roland Avenue    Memorial Hospital lot and     West  299      5-10-1966
                       entrance sidewalk of the lot
                       of Clarence and Ruby Sparrow
                       Running from the intersection
                       of Adair Street on the north,
                       extending to the triangle on
                       the south, except in the
                       following area: On the
South Main Street      southwest side of South Main  Both  285      5-25-1964
                       Street between the
                       intersection of Adair Street
                       on the north and the
                       intersection Gaines Avenue on
                       the south
                       Extending from Gaines Avenue
South Main Street (old southerly to the south exit   East  403      10-2-1979
route)                 opposite the lot of Gayle and
                       Rita Shields
West Perry Street      Between North Madison Street  North 299      5-10-1966
                       and North Main Street
West Perry Street      Between Roland Avenue and     South 546      3-2-1993
                       North Madison Street
                       Between Kelly Court on the
West Seminary Street   west and Cherry Alley on the  North 443      5-4-1983
                       east
                       From North Madison Street
West Seminary Street   west to the west side of the  North 358      3-6-1973
                       jail lot
                       From North Madison Street
West Seminary Street   west to the west side of the  South 358      3-6-1973
                       Littrell lot
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sched. I) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE II: RESTRICTED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle other than a passenger automobile
for a longer period than designated below on any of the following streets or
portions thereof:
 
Street       Location                          Time Limit   Ord. No. Date
             From the southeast corner of the
             Ashland Oil Service Station east
Bryan Street to Thomas Street (temporary area  Five minutes 289      5-4-1965
             for the use of the public in
             depositing and picking up mail at
             the post office)
Main Street  The portion north of Seminary     Two hours    196      10-7-1946
             Street
Perry Street                                  Two hours    196      10-7-1946
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sched. II) Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE III: LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park any vehicle
used for the carrying of passengers or freight or both, on the following
streets or sections thereof:
 
Street          Location                               Side  Ord. No. Date
Main Street     Beginning with its intersection with   West  134      6-3-1935
                Seminary Street south to Forsee Alley
Seminary Street From its intersection with Main Street North 134      6-3-1935
                west to Cherry Alley
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sched. III) Penalty, see §
72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   LITTERING
      
94.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
   
90.07   Keeping of livestock
Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   Restraint of dogs; impoundment; reclamation
   
90.22   Issuance of citation
   
90.23   Confinement of dogs in harbor
   
90.24   Proper control and care to be exercised; nuisances
   
90.25   Humane treatment required
   
90.26   Vicious dogs
   
90.27   Poisoning dogs
   
90.28   Abandonment upon public places or ways prohibited
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake entirely or to neglect or refuse to provide or perform
the legal obligations for care and support of an animal by its owner or his or
her agent. Such ABANDONMENT shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights
and claims by the owner to such animal.
(KRS 257.100(4))
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or his or her agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property to an animal and every person
who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his or her care or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when,
except as authorized by law, he or she intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates, other than as provided in division (B)
below, in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four-legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing,
tormenting, failing to provide adequate food, drink, space or healthcare or by
any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his or her custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish or trap;
      (2)   Incidental to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes; or
      (4)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130) (Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a Class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600) (Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer may destroy or kill, or cause to be destroyed or
killed, any animal found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or
appearing to be injured, diseased or suffering past recovery for any useful
purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal, the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him or
her to view the animal in his or her presence or shall obtain consent to the
destruction from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or his
or her agent for a period of more than ten days, after written notice by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given to the owner,
or his or her agent, at his or her last known address, shall be deemed to be
abandoned and may be turned over to the nearest humane society, dog pound or
animal shelter, or disposed of as such custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner or the agent of the owner of such
animal by the licensed veterinarian, as provided herein, shall relieve the
licensed veterinarian and any custodian to whom such animal may be given of any
further liability for disposal.
(KRS 257.100) (Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Definition. LIVESTOCK shall include, but not be limited to: horses,
cattle, mules, donkeys, sheep, pigs, goats, llamas, alpacas, and all fowl.
   (B)   Prohibited. There shall be no livestock permitted in the city limits.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   If the property owner has two acres of land for each livestock. The
owner shall always ensure there is adequate shelter and fencing to keep
livestock contained;
      (2)   Up to two laying fowl shall be permitted. If you are a tenant, then
you shall provide a letter from the landlord allowing up to two laying fowl on
the property. The two laying fowl shall always have a shelter and adequate
fencing providing full containment at all times. The shelter and fencing shall
be inspected by the city yearly. City may revoke permit if shelter is found to
be unsanitary or fencing inadequate.
      (3)   Any farmland that is in the city, which consists of ten continuous
acres or more, will be considered exempt from this section according to KRS
132.010(9)(a).
(Ord. 697, passed 10-4-2011; Ord. 776, passed 12-15-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner or keeper and not under the control
of the owner or keeper or members of the owner or keeper’s immediate family or
an agent of the owner or keeper. AT LARGE shall not include a hunting dog
which, while not on a restraint, is subject to the master’s command.
   CITY RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY OWNER. Any person owning, renting or leasing real
estate within the corporate limits of the city.
   CONTROL. Power to manage and direct said dog; not limited to the physical
control of said dog.
   DOG. A member of the canine family.
   DOG POUND. Any premises designated and operated by the county’s dog warden;
a small animal shelter.
   DOG WARDEN. The county’s dog warden who shall be authorized to provide dog
warden services to the city, pursuant to an agreement entered into by the city
on May 1, 1990.
   HARBOR. A dog shall be deemed to be HARBORED if it is fed or sheltered for
three consecutive days or more.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership or corporation that owns, keeps or harbors a
dog referred to herein.
   RESTRAINT. A dog shall be deemed to be RESTRAINED if kept upon the premises
of its owner or is accompanied by a responsible person off of the owner’s
premises and kept under that person’s control.
(Prior Code, § 90.15) (Ord. 479, passed 7-14-1987)
§ 90.21 RESTRAINT OF DOGS; IMPOUNDMENT; RECLAMATION.
   (A)   Every dog kept on the owner’s premises and control within the city
shall be restrained.
   (B)   Unrestrained dogs may be taken by the dog warden to the county dog
pound and shall there be disposed of as set forth by county regulations.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. 479, passed 7-14-1987)
§ 90.22 ISSUANCE OF CITATION.
   The dog warden or any peace officer of the county shall issue to the owner
of any dog found off its owner’s premises as the result of a citizen’s
complaint, a citation or criminal complaint giving notice of the charge and
violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) (Ord. 479, passed 7-14-1987) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 CONFINEMENT OF DOGS IN HARBOR.
   Every female dog in harbor shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner that such female dog cannot come into contact with
another dog except for planned breeding.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. 479, passed 7-14-1987) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 PROPER CONTROL AND CARE TO BE EXERCISED; NUISANCES.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of a dog he or
she keeps or harbors, so as to prevent the following action by them:
      (1)   Chasing of vehicles;
      (2)   Excessive, continuous or untimely barking, howling or yelping, so
that the admitted sounds are unreasonably loud and disturbing and which are of
such a character and testing duration as to disturb the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood or to be detrimental to the life and health of any individual;
      (3)   Molesting of passersby or attacking other domestic animals;
      (4)   Trespassing upon school grounds;
      (5)   Trespassing upon private property; or
      (6)   Damaging of property of any nature.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie evidence of a dog creating a nuisance if two
complaints are received by the dog warden, or any other peace officer of the
city, regarding actions of a dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) (Ord. 479, passed 7-14-1987) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 HUMANE TREATMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide his or her dog with good and wholesome
food and water; proper shelter and protection from the weather; and
veterinarian care when needed to prevent suffering and humane care and
treatment.
   (B)   If any dog is restrained by chain, leash or similar restraint, such
chain or restraint shall be designed to prevent the animal from choking or
strangling itself.
   (C)   No person shall beat, cruelly mistreat or torment, overload, overwork
or otherwise chase any dog or cause or permit any dog fight or other combat
between animals and dogs.
   (D)   No owner shall abandon a dog, abandonment consisting of leaving a dog
for a period in excess of 24 hours without providing for someone to feed, water
and to check on the dog’s condition. In the event a dog is found to be
abandoned, such dog may be taken by the county’s dog warden and impounded at
the county dog pound. Such dog shall be disposed of as set forth by county
regulations. In the event a dog is so abandoned, the owner, rather than the
person, if any, who is charged with the animal’s care may be liable for a
citation or criminal complaint for violation of this section.
   (E)   No person other than a licensed veterinarian shall crop a dog’s ear or
tail.
(Prior Code, § 90.20) (Ord. 479, passed 7-14-1987) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to harbor or keep any dog with
vicious propensity.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie evidence of viciousness for any dog to bite or
attack any person while outside the owner’s premises or his or her premises or
under his or her control or restraint.
   (C)   If the county’s dog warden detains or keeps in isolation a dog to
determine if said dog has rabies, the owner of said dog shall be liable to the
county dog pound for boarding fees.
(Prior Code, § 90.21) (Ord. 479, passed 7-14-1987; Ord. 694, passed 6-7-2011)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 POISONING DOGS.
   No person shall place any poisonous substance which may be harmful to a dog
as described in §
90.20 of this code in any location where it may be readily found and ingested
by any such dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.22) (Ord. 479, passed 7-14-1987) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 ABANDONMENT UPON PUBLIC PLACES OR WAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any dog or cat upon any
public place, including the right-of-way of a public highway or upon the
property of another without provision of the care and sustenance of such
animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.23) (Ord. 479, passed 7-14-1987) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates §
90.03 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $500, imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense
under division (B)(1) above arising from the person’s treatment of an equine,
the court may impose one or both of the following penalties against the person,
in addition to fines and imprisonment:
            1.   An order that the person pay restitution for damage to the
property of others and for costs incurred by others, including reasonable
costs, as determined by agreement or by the court after a hearing, incurred in
feeding, sheltering, veterinary treatment, and incidental care of any equine
that was the subject of the offense resulting in conviction; or
            2.   An order terminating or imposing conditions on the person’s
right to possession, title, custody, or care of any equine that was the subject
of the offense resulting in conviction.
         (b)   If a person’s ownership interest in an equine is terminated by a
judicial order under division (B)(2)(a)2. above, the court may order the sale,
conveyance, or other disposition of the equine that was the subject of the
offense resulting in conviction.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less
than $100 nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
   (D)   (1)   Any person violating any provisions of §
90.07 of this code will receive a written warning for a first offense. A second
offense will receive a citation to district court.
      (2)   Fines are as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $25 to $100; and
         (b)   Second offense: $100 to $250.
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.20 through
90.28 of this code shall be deemed guilty of a punishable violation and shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than
$500, or to be imprisoned for not less than five days nor more than 60 days, or
both so fined and imprisoned. If any violation is continuing, each day’s
violation shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Prior Code, §
90.99)  (Ord. 479, passed 7-14-1987; Ord. 694, passed 6-7-2011; Ord 697, passed
10-4-2011; Ord. 776, passed 12-15-2022)
CHAPTER 91: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Scope
   
91.03   Definitions
Property Maintenance Standards
   
91.15   Zoning Code
   
91.16   International Property Maintenance Code
   
91.17   Amendments to Property Maintenance Code
   
91.18   Inspections
Nuisances
   
91.30   Definition
   
91.31   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
91.32   Duty of maintenance of private property
   
91.33   Duty of maintenance of streets, sidewalks, drainage areas and public
ways
   
91.34   Certain conditions declared as nuisance
Abatement
   
91.50   Issuance of notice of violation or citation
   
91.51   Permit to repair does not extend compliance time
   
91.52   Required permit to demolish does not extend compliance time
   
91.53   City may correct violation
   
91.54   Lien, fines, charges and fees
   
91.55   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Property Code.”
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 91.02 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to proposed and existing buildings, or structures
or appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or structures, vacant
lots and other private and public property in the city as identified herein.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT BOARD. The administrative body set forth in §§
36.105 through
36.115 of this code.
   CODE OFFICIAL. A code enforcement officer.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. Written notification to a person violating a specified
city ordinance providing the violator with an opportunity to cure the
violation.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
§ 91.15 ZONING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The city hereby adopts and incorporates by reference, as if
produced herein in full, the zoning ordinances adopted by the city (see
Chapter 154 of this code) and all amendments thereto approved by the city. A
copy of the zoning ordinance is filed in the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   Abatement; penalties; enforcement. The regulations of the zoning
ordinance shall be enforced within the city through imposition of civil
penalties as set out in §§
91.50 through
91.53 of this code.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 91.16 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Adopted. The 2012 International Property Maintenance Code, which is
attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter as Exhibit A, is hereby
adopted in its entirety, by reference as if fully set forth in this subchapter
as the existing Structures Code for the city. A copy of the International
Property Maintenance Code shall be made a part of the permanent nuisance
violations in the records of the city and shall be maintained on file in the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection.
   (B)   Standards. This subchapter shall govern and control the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings and structures in the city by providing
the standard for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things
and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit
for occupation and use, and that premises are clean and sanitary. This
subchapter shall also govern and control the condemnation of buildings and
structures found to be unfit for human occupancy and use, and it shall
establish procedures for the demolition of such structures. This subchapter
shall also establish what constitutes a nuisance on public and private
properties, prohibit such nuisances, fix the responsibilities of owners,
operators and occupants of property and provide for administration, enforcement
and civil penalties. The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed
to prevent the enforcement of other ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 703, passed 1-3-2012)
§ 91.17 AMENDMENTS TO PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   Means of appeal. In that a Code Enforcement Board has been established
for the city, the appropriate sections of the International Property
Maintenance Code dealing with means of appeal is deleted in its entirety, and
that section shall henceforth read as follows.
      (1)   Correction time. The International Property Maintenance Code is
amended to provide that any request for additional time to come into compliance
shall be made by written application to the code official within the time
allowed in the correction order. The city may extend the correction time, in
its sole discretion, if it determines that the correction time is not
reasonable given the facts of a particular violation. It shall be the duty of
the violator to notify the city that additional time is needed and to provide
justification why the correction time is inadequate.
      (2)   Appeals. The International Property Maintenance Code is amended to
provide that all appeals of a citation issued by the code official shall be
made pursuant to the requirements hereinbelow.
   (B)   Problem structures. In that there is a need to establish a period of
time a problem structure may remain standing, the appropriate section of the
International Property Maintenance Code dealing with unsafe structures and
equipment is amended to add the following.
      (1)   A PROBLEM STRUCTURE is defined as a building or other structure
that poses a nuisance or danger to the public, Police Department or Fire
Department and includes, but is not limited to, the definition in the
International Property Maintenance Code as well as the following:
         (a)   A building whose interior or exterior walls or other vertical
structural members list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line
passing through the center of gravity falls outside the middle third of the
base;
         (b)   A building, exclusive of the foundation, that shows 33% or more
damage or deterioration to its supporting members or 50% or more damage or
deterioration to its non-supporting members or to the enclosing, outside walls
or coverings;
         (c)   A building having improperly distributed loads on the floors, or
roofs, or in which same are overloaded or have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe to occupants or to the public;
         (d)   A building damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to cause
the building to become dangerous to life, limb or property of the occupants or
to the public;
         (e)   A building that has become or is so dilapidated, decayed,
unsafe, unsanitary or which so utterly fails to provide the amenities essential
to decent living that is unfit for human habitation or is likely to cause
sickness or disease or injury to health, safety or general welfare of those
living therein;
         (f)   A building having light, air and sanitation facilities that are
inadequate to protect the health, safety or general welfare of human beings who
live or may live therein;
         (g)   A building having inadequate facilities for egress in case of
fire or other events, or having insufficient stairways, fire escapes or other
means or travel;
         (h)   A building that has parts or elements that are attached or not
attached in such a way that they may fall and cause injury to persons or
property;
         (i)   A building characterized by disconnected utilities, extensive
broken glass, peeling or flaking paint on the exterior walls, loose or rotting
materials on the roof or the exterior walls; or
         (j)   Any vacant building or structure not secured from entry or the
elements.
      (2)   When a problem structure, not in danger of structural collapse, has
been closed and secured from entry and the elements by the property owner and
the structure continues to remain closed and secured from entry and the
elements by approved methods it may remain standing in a safe condition for a
period not to exceed 90 days from the date of the fire, or date of damage from
other means, at which time an application must have been made for a building
permit to repair or for a demolition permit.
      (3)   Failure of the property owner to keep the structure closed and
secured from entry and the elements or to obtain the required permit in the
specified time shall constitute permission to an official, employee or other
authorized agent of the city to enter upon the property to remedy the situation
and to abate the nuisance by demolition and removal of the problem structure.
   (C)   Motor vehicles. The appropriate section of the International Property
Maintenance Code dealing with motor vehicles is amended to read as follows.
      (1)   No inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle, whether repairable or
not, shall be parked, kept or stored on any public right-of-way. No inoperative
or unlicensed motor vehicle, whether repairable or not, shall be parked, kept
or stored on any private premises longer than three calendar days unless
contained within an approved enclosed building. No vehicle shall at any time be
in a state of major disassembly, disrepair or in the process of being shipped
or dismantled unless contained within an approved enclosed building. A motor
vehicle is covered by this section if it does not have lawfully affixed thereto
an unexpired license. A motor vehicle is also covered by this section if it is
inoperative and remains in an inoperative condition for more than three
calendar days, whether or not it is repairable, or whether or not it has an
unexpired license. This provision shall not apply to vehicles which are the
subject of settlement negotiations or pending litigation and for which has
documentation of such negotiation or litigation or vehicles as described in
division (C)(5) below.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to business-zoned property where two
inoperable vehicles may be located or to industrial-zoned property which must
comply with other ordinances of the city and the laws of the commonwealth.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to a historic motor vehicle registered
and licensed pursuant to KRS 186.043, unless it is inoperative and remains in
an inoperative condition for more than three calendar days and is not contained
within an approved, enclosed building.
      (4)   A vehicle of any type shall not be permitted to undergo painting
and major overhaul, including body work, unless such work is performed inside a
building designed, zoned and approved for such purposes. Painting of vehicles
is prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray booth.
      (5)   A motor vehicle marked and intended for use in a racing occupation
or hobby shall only be permitted if the area immediately surrounding the
vehicle is properly maintained and free of all debris. A racing motor vehicle
shall not be permitted to undergo major overhaul, including body work, unless
such work is performed inside a building designed, zoned and approved for such
purposes.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner, landlord, corporation or
manager to rent any house, apartment or trailer until it has been inspected by
the Building Inspector. If the Building Inspector determines the need for
Electric, Plumbing or Health Department inspections, he or she shall have all
aspects of the above mentioned to be inspected.
   (B)   Any commercial buildings, houses, apartments and trailers that are
vacant for more than one year shall have to be inspected by the Building
Inspector before being rented or leased.
   (C)   All rental dwelling units must have a housing inspection completed and
a corresponding certificate of occupancy granted by the Building Inspector
prior to unit occupation. The property owner or legal agent is responsible for
obtaining the inspection and certificate of occupancy. A new inspection and
certificate of occupancy is required for each new rental agreement.
(Ord. 706, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
91.99
NUISANCES
§ 91.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. A problem structure and any condition or use of public or private
property or premises, or of building exteriors which substantially annoy,
injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose or safety of the public which
causes or tends to cause substantial diminution of the value of other property
in the neighborhood in which such premises are located, or which creates a
stench or odor noxious and offensive to those in the neighborhood or passers-by
on the public street or ways.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 91.31 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this subchapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and in the state statutes as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against is provided in
this subchapter or in accordance with any other provisions of law.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32 DUTY OF MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any property or
premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person
keep or maintain such property or premises in a manner causing substantial
diminution in the value of the other property in the neighborhood in which such
property or premises are located. For the purposes of this section, it shall
not be essential that the nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner,
occupant or persons having control or management of the property or premises,
but merely that the nuisance be created or contributed to by licensees,
invitees, guests or other persons for whose conduct the owner or operator is
responsible, or by persons for whose conduct the owner or operator is not
responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable care ought to have become aware.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 DUTY OF MAINTENANCE OF STREETS, SIDEWALKS, DRAINAGE AREAS AND PUBLIC
WAYS.
   No person shall place, throw, deposit or allow to accumulate or grow, or
cause to be erected or placed on any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, storm
sewer, public or private drainage ditch or drainage structure or any other
public, right-of-way, easement or public property, any rubbish, garbage,
construction or demolition debris, landscaping debris, furniture, signs, large
rocks or boulders, fences, posts, stakes, weeds, inoperative or unlicensed
motor vehicles, junk or scrap metal as hereinabove declared to be a public
nuisance, or any other obstruction or encroachment of any nature, except for
premises authorized by the city for such purposes. The presence of such liquids
or substances in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, storm sewer,
public or private drainage ditch or any public right-of-way or easement or
property shall constitute a nuisance and is a violation of this subchapter.
Every person owning, occupying or having control or management of any building
or lot in the city shall also keep the sidewalk adjacent to such building or
lot open and free from all ice, snow and other obstructions, barriers and
impediments of every description. In addition to any other remedies in this
chapter, any materials in violation of this section found on city streets,
sidewalks, public ways, public or private drainage areas and other public
property may be removed immediately by the city with or without notice to the
property owner.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any public or private land within the city to permit a public
nuisance to develop thereon.
   (B)   Public nuisances include, but are not limited to, the following
conditions:
      (1)   Junk; scrap metal. The storage of junk motor vehicles, motor
vehicle parts, including tires, storage tanks, dumpsters, refuse/trash
containers not being served by the county’s garbage collection franchisees,
junk machinery, machinery parts, abandoned, discarded or unused appliances,
objects or equipment or scrap metal (whether recyclable or unrecyclable) within
the city limits, except on premises authorized by the city for such purposes;
      (2)   Accumulation of construction, demolition or landscaping debris. All
exterior property and premises shall be free from any accumulation of
combustible and noncombustible waste materials, including any material
resulting from maintenance, demolition, repair, alteration or construction of
buildings, structures or grounds or landscaping or natural damage of grounds,
including, but not limited to fallen trees, tree branches, brush and yard
trimmings;
      (3)   Exterior use or storage of indoor furniture. The use or storage of
furniture which is upholstered or not designed for outdoor use in an uncovered
or exposed area in which it is likely to decay, decompose or retain moisture
causing a health hazard or diminution in the value of neighboring properties;
      (4)   Compost piles. Any compost pile which is of such a nature as to
spread or harbor disease, emit unreasonable, unpleasant odors or harmful gas or
attract rodents, vermin or other disease-carrying pests, animals or insects;
provided, that the presence of earthworms in a compost pile shall not
constitute a nuisance;
      (5)   Nauseous substances or odors. The permitting of any offal, manure,
rubbish or filth, decaying animal or vegetable matter, excessive animal
excrement of any foul or nauseous substance or nauseous or offensive odor to be
emitted or to be discharged out of or flow from premises;
      (6)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining streets. The permitting of any
tree, shrubbery, hedge or other object adjoining public rights-of-way to grow
or stand in such a condition that it interferes with the use, construction or
maintenance of streets or sidewalks, that could cause injury to streets or
sidewalks, or that causes an obstruction to drainage, or poses a danger to
life, limb or property of persons using the sidewalks or rights-of-way. No such
person shall allow any dead tree adjoining public sidewalks or rights-of-way to
stand more than three feet in height;
      (7)   Obstructions of stormwater and drainage facilities. The permitting
of any limbs, leaves, grass clippings or other objects to be placed in a manner
that interferes with the use or maintenance of any stormwater and drainage
facilities;
      (8)   Visual obstructions of streets. The permitting of any hedge,
shrubbery, fence or other visual obstruction on any corner lot to attain a
height which prohibits proper sight distance for pedestrian traffic or vehicle
traffic on a public street or private drive;
      (9)   Dilapidated structures. All buildings, walls and other structures
which have been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise, and which are in a state
of dilapidation, deterioration or decay so as not to provide shelter,
sufficient sewer, plumbing, electrical or heating facilities or which are
unsound or in danger of collapse or failure and which are a danger to the
safety of the public or which are, vacant or abandoned and open or accessible
to vagrants or passersby or which are otherwise built, erected or maintained in
violation of any ordinance;
      (10)   Obstruction over streets. All hanging signs, awnings, canopies,
wires and other similar structures over the streets or sidewalks so situated or
constructed as to endanger public safety or to be contrary to an ordinance;
      (11)   Stagnant water. All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies or
other insects can multiply;
      (12)   Accumulation of refuse/trash containers. Storing or permitting the
accumulation of refuse, unless such refuse is kept separately in standard
refuse/trash containers or dumpsters which are covered by solid, tight-fitting
lids and which have no uncovered holes, and the storing and permitting of the
accumulation of refuse and trash for which removal of refuse and trash is not
provided;
      (13)   Scattering garbage and the like. The throwing, placing or
scattering of any garbage, rubbish, trash or other refuse over or upon any
premises, street or alley, either public or private, or adjacent thereto, and
either with or without the intent to later remove or burn;
      (14)   Attractive nuisances. The allowing of any physical condition, use
or occupancy of any property or premises to be an attractive nuisance to
children, including, but not limited to abandoned wells, shafts, standing pools
of water, basements, excavations, retaining walls, unsafe fences and
refrigerators, freezers, ice chests, ice boxes or similar air tight box or
container which has a locking device inoperable from within, without first
unhinging and removing the door or lid and detaching from the door or lid;
      (15)   Graffiti. The allowing of any GRAFFITI which is defined as any
inscription, drawing or design that is scratched, painted, sprayed or placed on
any surface of any structure that has no redeeming artistic, moral or social
value;
      (16)   Hoarding of pet animals. The keeping of more pet animals than can
be properly maintained in a healthy condition without presenting a health or
safety hazard to the owners or others and without constituting a nuisance to
the occupants of neighboring properties, characterized by failure to provide
proper food, water, shelter, veterinary care and sanitation to the animals and
resulting in squalid living conditions for the animals and the keeper and by
complaints from neighbors including, but not limited to mistreated or neglected
animals, stench from the property and rodent and insect infestations;
      (17)   Hoarding of materials. The accumulation of combustible materials,
trash food, newspapers, magazines, old clothes and other items that create a
serious fire and health hazards that can cause disease, contribute to vermin
and/or insect infestations, affect the occupants of the building, neighbors,
public safety personnel and the general public or violate any other city safety
code; and
      (18)   Vegetation and weeds. Any property owner or persons leasing or
persons overseeing any vacant lot with or without an outbuilding shall be in
violation if the growth of existence of thistles, burdock, jimson weeds, rag
weeds, milkweeds, poison ivy, poison oak, iron weeds, grasses and all other
weeds and vegetation in excess of a height of 12 inches. All residential homes
shall have a limit of eight inches in height for lawns. Non-noxious vegetation
growing in areas designated as gardens or landscaping beds is excepted from
this division (B)(18).
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 683, passed 8-4-2009; Ord. 702, passed 11-1-
2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
ABATEMENT
§ 91.50 ISSUANCE OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION OR CITATION.
   (A)   Enforcement proceedings for this chapter shall be initiated by the
issuance of a notice of violation or a citation by a code official.
   (B)   Except as provided below, if a code official believes, based on his or
her personal observation or investigation that a person has violated a city
ordinance, he or she is authorized to issue a citation to the violator. In lieu
of a citation, the code official may give the violator a notice of violation
that a violation has occurred and allow the violator a specified period of time
to remedy the violation without a fine. The time allowed by the code official
shall depend on the nature of the violation and the time necessary to remedy
the violation. If the violator fails or refuses to remedy the violation within
the time specified, the code official is authorized to issue a citation.
Informal settlement of matters under this chapter is encouraged.
   (C)   The notice of violation or citation shall be delivered to the violator
at his or her last known address as it appears from the current tax assessment
roll. Such notice of violation or citation shall be deemed to be properly
served if given by certified mail, return receipt requested, by personal
delivery or by leaving the notice at the person’s usual place of residence with
any individual residing therein who is 18 years of age or older and who is
informed of the contents of the notice. Service by certified mail shall be
presumed to have been served on the third day following mailing. A copy shall
also be posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure or premises
affected by such notice of violation or citation.
   (D)   Notices of violation or citations involving streets, sidewalks and
public ways shall be sent to the property owner or other person having control
or management of the premises or property adjacent to or fronting the street,
sidewalk or public way.
   (E)   Notices of violation or citations involving motor vehicles shall be
sent to the property owner or other person having control or management of the
premises or property, and the motor vehicle owner if known. Upon failure of the
violator to comply with the directives of the citation or any orders of the
Code Enforcement Board, the appropriate city official is authorized to send
employees or authorized agents of the city upon the property to remedy the
situation and to abate the nuisance by removing the vehicle.
   (F)   The citation issued by the code official shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification;
      (2)   The name and address of the person to whom the citation is issued;
      (3)   The date and time the violation was observed and the date and time
of issuance of the citation;
      (4)   The facts constituting the violation;
      (5)   The section of the ordinance or other code violation;
      (6)   The name of the code official;
      (7)   The procedure for the person to follow in order to pay the civil
fine or to contest the citation;
      (8)   The civil fine that may be imposed per day for the violation if the
person does not contest the citation;
      (9)   The maximum civil fine that may be imposed per day for the
violation if the person elects to contest the citation; and
      (10)   A statement that if the person fails to pay the civil fine set
forth in the citation or to contest the citation within the time allowed, the
person shall be deemed as having waived the right to a hearing before the Code
Enforcement Board, and the determination that a violation was committed shall
be final.
   (G)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the city from correcting the
violation through self-help or taking immediate action to remedy a violation of
its ordinances when there is reason to believe that the violation presents a
serious threat to the public health, safety and welfare, or if in the absence
of immediate action, the effects of the violation will be irreparable or
irreversible. The city may file liens on the property to recover the city’s
costs of labor and material, civil fines and other expenses.
   (H)   After issuing a citation, the code official shall deliver a copy of
the citation to the person designated by the Board. Upon receipt of a citation,
the violator shall respond to the citation within seven days by either paying
the civil fine or requesting in writing a hearing before the Code Enforcement
Board to contest the citation. If the violator responds by paying the civil
fine, the violator shall still be required to remedy the violation. If the
violator fails to remedy the violation or to request a hearing within the
designated time, the code official is authorized to issue another citation and
to remedy the violation.
   (I)   After determining that compliance has been achieved in the allowed
correction time, the code official shall report that statistic to the Code
Enforcement Board.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 91.51 PERMIT TO REPAIR DOES NOT EXTEND COMPLIANCE TIME.
   (A)   (1)   When abatement of a violation by repair requires a permit
obtained from the city, the completion time shall correspond to the correction
time allowed in the notice of violation issued by the code official.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the violator to notify the code official
that additional time is needed and to provide justification why the completion
time is inadequate.
   (B)   (1)   The code official may extend the completion time, in his or her
sole discretion, if he or she determines that the completion time is not
reasonable given the facts of a particular violation.
      (2)   Any cessation of the normal construction or repairs may cause the
permit to become invalid.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 91.52 REQUIRED PERMIT TO DEMOLISH DOES NOT EXTEND COMPLIANCE TIME.
   (A)   When abatement of a violation is achieved through demolition, a permit
shall be obtained from the city.
   (B)   The completion time shall correspond to the correction time allowed in
the notice of violation issued by the code official.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the violator to notify the code official that
additional time is needed and to provide justification why the completion time
is inadequate.
   (D)   The code official may extend the completion time, in his or her sole
discretion, if he or she determines that the completion time is not reasonable
given the facts of a particular violation.
   (D)   Any cessation of the demolition may cause the permit to become
invalid.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 91.53 CITY MAY CORRECT VIOLATION.
   If the violator does not request a hearing before the Code Enforcement Board
and the property is not brought into compliance, or if the Code Enforcement
Board orders the property be brought into compliance and the violators refuses,
failure to so comply shall constitute permission to an official, employee or
other authorized agent of the city to enter upon the property to remedy the
situation and to abate the violation.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 91.54 LIEN, FINES, CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city shall possess a lien on property owned by the person found by
a final, non-appealable order of the Board or by a final judgment of the court
to have committed a violation of a city ordinance for all fines assessed for
the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by the city in connection
with the enforcement of the ordinance.
   (B)   The lien shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk and shall
be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear interest
at 12% per annum thereafter until paid.
   (C)   The lien shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens, except
state, county, school boards and city taxes and may be enforced by judicial
proceedings
   (D)   (1)   In addition to the remedy prescribed above, the person found to
have committed the violation shall be personally responsible for the amount of
all fines assessed for the violation and for all charges and fees incurred by
the city in connection with the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   The city may bring a civil action against the person and shall have
the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 91.55 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by any designated code official or code
enforcement officer.
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
91.18 of this code shall be cited to the district court. Violations shall be
deemed a misdemeanor and fined no less than $100 and no more than $250 for each
offense. The penalty for failure to obtain a certificate of occupancy shall be
the responsibility of the property owner.
   (C)   Violations of this chapter and other provisions as set out in other
specified chapters of this code shall be subject to the following schedule of
civil fines.
      (1)   If a citation for a violation of this chapter is not contested by
the person charged with the violation, the maximum penalties below shall apply;
however, the Board may waive any or all of a penalty for an uncontested
violation, if in its discretion, the Board determines that such waiver will
promote compliance with this chapter. The penalties listed below are for each
day a violation continues, beginning on the first day after the ending date of
the correction period given in the citation. A second offense is an offense
that occurs within five years of the determination by the Code Enforcement
Board of a prior offense. All others are those that occur within five years of
the determination by the Code Enforcement Board of two or more prior offenses.
Violation First Offense Second Offense All Others
Violation                             First Offense Second Offense All Others
Property maintenance nuisances:
   Non-structural violations       $50           $100           $200
   Structural violations           $75           $150           $300
Stormwater:
   Erosion prevention and sediment $250          $500           $1,000
control
   Illicit discharge               $500          $1,000         $2,000
   Post-construction BMP maintenanc$250          $500           $1,000
Zoning/subdivision violations:
   Sign violations                 $50           $100           $200
   Use violations                  $100          $200           $300
   Violation of development review $100          $200           $300
procedures
   Violation of development standar$100          $200           $300
   Violation of Overlay District   $250          $500           $750
procedures
   Yard/dimension violations       $50           $100           $200
 
      (2)   If the citation is contested and a hearing before the Board is
required, the following maximum penalties may be imposed at the discretion of
the Board:
Violation First Offense Second Offense All Others
Violation                              First Offense Second Offense All Others
Property maintenance nuisances:
   Non-structural violations        $100          $200           $400
   Structural violations            $150          $300           $600
Stormwater:
   Erosion prevention and sediment  $500          $1,000         $2,000
control
   Illicit discharge                $1,000        $2,000         $4,000
   Post-construction BMP maintenance$500          $1,000         $2,000
Zoning ordinance/subdivision
violations:
   Sign violations                  $100          $200           $400
   Use violations                   $200          $400           $600
   Violation of development review  $200          $400           $600
procedures
   Violation of general development $200          $400           $600
standards
   Violation of Overlay District    $500          $1,000         $1,150
procedures
   Yard/dimension violations        $100          $200           $400
 
(Ord. 682, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 706, passed 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 92: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
92.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
92.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
92.03   Consumer fireworks; restrictions on sale
   
92.04   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
92.05   Exempted sales and uses
   
92.06   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
92.20   Blasting permit
   
92.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
 
   
92.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, FIREWORKS means any
composition or device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible
effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation, and which meets the
definition of “consumer fireworks” as defined in division (D) below and as set
forth in the U.S. Department of Transportation’s (DOT) hazardous materials
regulations. FIREWORKS does not include the following.
      (1)   Exception number one: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be FIREWORKS and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number two: Model rockets and model rocket motors
designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models
are not considered to be FIREWORKS.
      (3)   Exception number three: Propelling or expelling charges consisting
of mixture of sulfur, charcoal and saltpeter are not considered as being
designed for producing audible effects.
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, CONSUMER FIREWORKS are fireworks
suitable for use by the public and designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that comply with the construction, chemical
composition and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Products Safety
Commission. The types, sizes and amount of pyrotechnic contents of these
devices are limited as enumerated in this subchapter. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, are classified as Division
1.4G Class C explosives by the U.S. DOT and include the following.
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist of
a metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect, is produced. This device may be provided with
a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or plastic base
for placing on the ground (base fountain) or a wood or cardboard handle, if
intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube is mounted
on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or
500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance
of at least one-half inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least one-
half inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel may contain more than
200 grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and sometimes a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar to a wheel but intended to be placed on the
ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by the rapidly
spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several-second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, bust charge and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term MINE refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term SHELL refers to a device
that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A mine or
shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in sequence
upon ignition of one external fuse. The term CAKE refers to a dense-packed
collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including lift
charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component. The tube remains on the ground.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE), or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, burst charge and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed one and three-quarter inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift
charge in any shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of
break or bursting charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight
of chemical composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the
shells in a kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user
lowers a shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fuse
extending out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then
reloaded with another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be
capable of firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the
tube. Each package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning
label requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect or other noise is often produced. The
explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50 milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as common fireworks by the U.S. DOT, and their
transportation, storage, retail sale, possession, sale and use shall be allowed
throughout the state at all times:
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate;
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect;
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire-coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item; and
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction-sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report;
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report;
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes, producing a small report;
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match, a small report or a shower of sparks is produced;
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced; and
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, DISPLAY FIREWORKS means pyrotechnic
devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or audible
effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. The term includes, but is
not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130 milligrams)
of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40 grams of
pyrotechnic composition and other display pieces which exceed the limits for
classification as consumer fireworks. DISPLAY FIREWORKS are defined by the
Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. pts. 1500 and 1507, and
are classified as Class B explosives by the U.S. DOT.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   The legality of items is as follows.
      (1)   Items described in division (B) above are legal for retail sale,
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in division (D) above are not legal for retail sale
but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter for the purposes
specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold at wholesale as
provided in this subchapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
(KRS 227.708)
(Prior Code, § 93.01)
§ 92.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city official may
grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the city, fair
associations, amusement parks and other organizations or groups of individuals.
Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to be approved
by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be of such
character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, shall not be hazardous to property or
endanger any person. COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR shall be defined as the person
with overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks
display. The competent display operator shall have a U.S. Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an
assistant in firing at least five public displays. A COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR
is also an employee possessor. A permit under this division (A) shall be issued
only to a competent display operator holding an ATF license. At least one
competent display operator shall be on-site during display set-up and firing.
This competent display operator shall maintain a copy of the permit
application, as signed by the local authority having jurisdiction as identified
in this section, on-site and at all times the display is in place, and shall be
presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal or local Fire Chief. All public
displays that require issuance of a permit shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 1123 - Code
for Fireworks Display (adopted edition). Permits shall be filed with the State
Fire Marshal at least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. After the
privilege is granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for
the display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
division (A) shall be transferable. For the purposes of this division (A),
PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or
pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as licensed by
the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to become a
competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display area shall
be at least 18 years of age. The Commissioner of the Department of Housing,
Buildings and Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal
shall promulgate administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A
to administer the provisions of this division (A). The regulations shall
address the process by which permits are issued and any other procedures that
are reasonably necessary to effectuate this division (A);
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any fireworks for supervised displays by
any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer or jobber, in accordance with
regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives if
the sale is to the person holding a display permit as outlined in division (A)
above. The permit holder shall present the permit along with other verifiable
identification at the time of sale;
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;
   (D)   The sale and use in emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation and highway use;
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads;
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports;
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations;
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency; and
(KRS 227.710)
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-partnership,
nonprofit or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for sale, selling at
retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using consumer fireworks as
defined in KRS 227.702 and as permitted pursuant to KRS 227.715.
(KRS 227.710)
(Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CONSUMER FIREWORKS; RESTRICTIONS ON SALE.
   Except as provided in §
92.02 of this code, the common fireworks described in §
92.01(B) may be offered for sale, sold at retail or kept with the intent to
sell, only if the following requirements are met.
   (A)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit or business intending to
sell consumer fireworks shall register annually with the State Fire Marshal,
who may assess a fee of no more than $25 for each site at which fireworks shall
be sold. The registration requirement under this division (A) shall not apply
to permanent business establishments which are open year-round and in which the
sale of fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business. Each location
shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate imposed on retailers
in KRS 139.200.
   (B)   Permanent business establishments open year-round and in which the
sale of consumer fireworks is ancillary to the primary course of business shall
only be permitted to sell those consumer fireworks described in §
92.01(B), or shall meet the criteria for “seasonal retailer” described in
division (C) below.
   (C)   SEASONAL RETAILERS shall be defined as any person, firm, co-
partnership, nonprofit or corporation intending to sell “consumer fireworks”
between June 10 and July 7, or December 26 and January 4 of each year or both,
and shall include permanent businesses, temporary businesses, stores, stands or
tents. A SEASONAL RETAILER shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who may
assess a fee of no more than $250 for each site at which fireworks shall be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (D)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, nonprofit or corporation intending
to sell consumer fireworks, as defined in §
92.01(B) as the primary source of business, that is not a seasonal retailer as
defined in division (C) above, shall register with the State Fire Marshal, who
may assess a fee of no more than $500 for each site at which fireworks will be
sold. Each location shall be required to charge sales tax at the current rate
imposed on retailers in KRS 139.200.
   (E)   (1)   The annual registration required by this section shall be
received by the State Fire Marshal at least 15 days prior to offering fireworks
for sale at the site for which the registration is intended.
      (2)   Evidence that a sales and use tax permit has been obtained from the
Department of Revenue shall be presented to the State Fire Marshal as a
condition of registration.
      (3)   If the registration is received less than 15 days prior to offering
fireworks for sale at the site for which registration is intended, an
additional assessment of $100 shall be added to the initial fee.
   (F)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall have its
registration certificate displayed in a conspicuous location at the site.
   (G)   Each site at which fireworks are offered for sale shall comply with
all applicable provisions of the International Building Code, with Kentucky
Amendments (adopted edition), and NFPA 1124 - Code for the Manufacture,
Transportation, Storage and Retail Sales of Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles
(adopted edition).
   (H)   No person or business shall give, offer for sale or sell any consumer
fireworks listed in §
92.01(B) to any person under 18 years of age.
   (I)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed by a fireworks
distribution facility or manufacturing facility. No person under 18 years of
age shall sell consumer fireworks at a consumer fireworks retail sales facility
registered under this section unless the individual is supervised by a parent
or guardian.
   (J)   The State Fire Marshal may revoke the registration of any site which
is in violation of a requirement of this section, or any other requirement
provided pursuant to this subchapter. If the violation renders any property
especially susceptible to fire loss, and there is present such hazard to human
life or limb that the public safety imperatively requires emergency action, the
State Fire Marshal may take that action, as provided in KRS 227.330(6).
   (K)   A person lawfully possessing consumer fireworks, as defined in §
92.01(B) may use those items if:
      (1)   He or she is at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Fireworks are not ignited within 200 feet of any structure, vehicle
or any other person; and
      (3)   Use of the fireworks does not place him or her in violation of any
lawfully enacted local ordinance.
(KRS 227.715) (Prior Code, § 93.03) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
92.02 of this code unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of
liability insurance deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the
permit is made, in a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate
city official or the State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if, in his
or her judgment, the situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all
damages which may be caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason
of the permitted display and arising from any acts of the licensee, his or her
agents, employees or subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720) (Prior Code, § 93.04) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of
explosives or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or
industry, or gold-star-producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or
chlorate, toy snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party
novelties, which contain less than twenty-five-hundredths of a grain of
explosive mixture, shells or cartridges used as ammunition in firearms, blank
cartridges for a show or theater or for signal or ceremonial purposes in
athletics or sports, or for use by military organizations, or the sale of any
kind of fireworks, provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly
out of the state.
(KRS 227.730) (Prior Code, § 93.05)
§ 92.06 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the State Fire Marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this subchapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or “display”
designation shall require the notification of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The State Fire Marshal shall provide the
owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any fireworks
seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal’s
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal’s intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the State Fire Marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (C)(1) above shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750) (Prior Code, § 93.06)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact nature of the
intended operation and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official.
   (B)   The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   (1)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rages, excelsior or any
material of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar
or any other portion of any building of any kind.
      (2)   Proper fireproof receptacles shall be provided for such hazardous
materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
92.02 or
92.04 of this code, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued
thereunder, or who knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to
violate the provisions of those sections, shall be fined not more than $1,000,
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990(4)) (Prior Code, § 93.99)
CHAPTER 93: LITTERING
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Littering prohibited
   
93.03   Litter on private premises
   
93.04   Litter on public ways and places; notice
   
93.05   Action to be taken; notice
   
93.06   Prosecution by warrant
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Materials on street or sidewalk, see §
153.57
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTERING. Consisting of:
      (1)   Scattering or permitting the scattering of loose paper, boxes,
cartons, cans, scraps or other forms of rubbish and trash, so as to present an
untidy or disorderly appearance, or to constitute a condition offensive to
sight or smell, upon a lot or public way in the city, or so as to permit such
litter to blow upon other lots or public ways in said city; and
      (2)   Permitting such litter to accumulate or to remain upon one’s lot so
as to constitute such a condition.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 348, passed 3-7-1972)
§ 93.02 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   Littering in the city shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 348, passed 3-7-1972) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 LITTER ON PRIVATE PREMISES.
   Any person having such litter on his or her premises shall enclose same in a
can or box sufficient to prevent such litter from being strewn at large or
blown about on such lot or other lots or public ways.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 348, passed 3-7-1972) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 LITTER ON PUBLIC WAYS AND PLACES; NOTICE.
   The Mayor shall cause the lots and public ways in the city to be inspected
at appropriate times, and upon learning of any violation of this chapter, he or
she shall cause notice to be served upon the occupant of any lot upon which
such violation exists requiring the collection, enclosure or removal of such
litter within four days. If such notice is not complied with, a second such
notice shall be given. If a second notice is not complied with, a third such
notice shall be given, and if it is not complied with, appropriate legal action
shall be taken.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 348, passed 3-7-1972)
§ 93.05 ACTION TO BE TAKEN; NOTICE.
   Should the occupant of any such lot be unavailable for service, or should
said premises have no occupant, then such notices shall be served upon the
owner and action taken against him or her. Notices may be served in person or
by mail.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 348, passed 3-7-1972)
§ 93.06 PROSECUTION BY WARRANT.
   Prosecution for any violation of this chapter shall be by warrant in an
appropriate court having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 348, passed 3-7-1972)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$100.
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 348, passed 3-7-1972)
CHAPTER 94: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Applicability
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Determination of reportable quantities
   
94.05   Prohibited acts
   
94.06   Notice to Public Safety Communications Center
   
94.07   Administering agency
   
94.08   Response authority
   
94.09   Liability for costs
   
94.10   Authorized release
   
94.11   Contractual indemnification; subrogation
   
94.12   Release prevention; control plan required
   
94.13   Inspections
   
94.14   Confidential information; trade secrets
   
94.15   Enforcement; notice of violation
   
94.16   Fees
   
94.17   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted by the City Council for the purpose of protecting
public health and safety in the city, through prevention and control of
hazardous materials incidents and releases, requiring the timely reporting of
releases of hazardous materials to appropriate local public safety and
emergency agencies in responding to such hazardous materials releases.
(Prior Code, § 93.35) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.02 APPLICABILITY.
   Pursuant to authority of KRS 67.093(7), the provisions of this chapter shall
apply to all persons who manufacture, use, store or transport hazardous
materials in quantities prescribed by this chapter and as defined in §
94.03 of this code within the entire area of the city, including all
incorporated and unincorporated areas thereof.
(Prior Code, § 93.36) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED RELEASE. A release of hazardous materials in accordance with an
appropriate valid permit granted by a state or federal agency having primary
jurisdiction over such releases.
   CONSUMER PRODUCT. As defined in 15 U.S.C. § 2052.
   COST. Includes all expenses incurred by local government and/or local
emergency response organizations regardless of whether or not such agencies are
publicly- or privately-owned in responding to any hazardous materials spills,
leaks or other releases into the environment and for any remedial or removal
actions taken to protect and safeguard the public health and safety, property
or the environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, COST incurred for
personnel, equipment and the use thereof, materials, supplies, services, lost
wages of volunteer personnel, damage or loss of equipment, both organization
and personal and related expenses resulting directly from response to a release
or threatened release of a hazardous material.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who works, with or without compensation, in a
workplace.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
government agency or other entity engaged in a business or providing services
which has employees.
   ENVIRONMENT. The navigable waters of the U.S. and any other surface water,
groundwater, drinking water supply, soil surface, subsurface strata, storm
sewer or publicly-owned sanitary sewer or treatments works (other than those
handling only wastewater generated at a facility) within the city. The term
shall include air only for the purpose of reporting releases pursuant to the
further provisions of this chapter.
   FACILITY. Any building, structure, installation, equipment, pipe or pipeline
(including any pipe into a sewer or publicly-owned treatment works), well, pit,
pond, lagoon, impoundment, ditch, landfill, storage container, tank, motor
vehicle, truck trailer, rolling stock or aircraft; or any site or area where a
hazardous material has been deposited, stored, disposed of, abandoned, placed
or otherwise come to be located. Consumer products in consumer use and vessels
are not included.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any element, compound, substance or material or any
combination thereof which are toxic, flammable, explosive, corrosive,
radioactive, oxidizers, etiological agents, carcinogenic or are highly reactive
when mixed with other substances, including, but not limited to, any substance
or material which is designated a HAZARDOUS MATERIAL, pursuant to the Hazardous
Materials Act (49 U.S.C. §§ 5101 et seq.) or is listed by Appendix A to 40
C.F.R. § 302.4 - Sequential CAS Registry Number List of CERCLA Hazardous
Substances, as amended, published by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA), a copy of which said list is attached as Appendix A hereto and herein
incorporated by reference the same as if set out at length herein in words and
figures, in a quantity and form which may pose a substantial present or
potential hazard to human health, property or the environment when improperly
released, treated, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
   NORMAL APPLICATION OF PESTICIDES. Application pursuant to the label
directions for application of a pesticide product registered under § 30 or § 24
of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act as amended (7 U.S.C.
§§ 136 et seq.) (FIFRA), or pursuant to the terms and conditions of an
experimental use permit issued under § 5 of FIFRA, or pursuant to an exemption
granted under § 18 of FIFRA.
   OIL. Includes but is not limited to petroleum, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse
and oil mixed with wastes other than dredged spoil.
   RELEASE. Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, escaping,
emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing of a hazardous
material into or on any land, air, water, well, stream, sewer or pipe so that
such hazardous materials or any constituent thereof may enter the environment.
The term shall not apply:
      (1)   With respect to a claim which such persons may assert against the
employer of such persons as provided by CMRCLA regulations, any release which
results in exposure to persons solely within a workplace;
      (2)   To emissions from the engine exhaust of a motor vehicle, rolling
stock, aircraft, vessel or a pipeline station pumping engine; or
      (3)   To the normal application of fertilizer and pesticide.
   PERSON. Any individual, business, firm, partnership, corporation,
consortium, association, trust, joint stock company, cooperative, joint
venture, city, county, city or county special district, the state or any
department, agency or political subdivision thereof, the U.S. Government or any
other commercial or legal entity.
   REMEDIAL ACTION. Any action consistent with permanent remedy taken instead
of in addition to any removal actions in the event of a release or threatened
release of a hazardous material into the environment, to prevent or minimize
the release of hazardous materials so that they do not migrate to cause a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health, property or the
environment. The term includes, but is not limited to, such actions at the
location of the release as storage, confinement, perimeter protection using
dikes, trenches or ditches, clay (or other earth) cover, neutralization,
cleanup of released hazardous materials or contaminated materials, recycling or
reuse, diversion, destruction, segregation of reactive wastes, repairs or
replacement of leaking containers, collection of leachate and runoff, on-site
treatment of incineration, provision of alternative water supplies and any
monitoring reasonably required to ensure that such actions protect public
health and welfare and the environment.
   REMOVAL. The cleanup or removal of released hazardous materials from the
environment, such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to monitor, assess
and evaluate the release or threatened release of hazardous materials, the
disposal of removed material or the taking of such actions as may be necessary
to prevent, minimize or mitigate damage to public health or welfare or the
environment.
   REPORTABLE QUANTITY. The quantity as set forth in §
94.04 of this code.
   RESPONSE. Any remedial or removal actions, including, but not limited to,
RESPONSE by local public safety and emergency agencies and subsequent actions
taken to ensure the preservation and protection of the public health, safety,
welfare and the environment.
   STORE. To deposit or place a substance in the city for a period of ten days
or more provided such substance is not otherwise in transit.
   USE. To store, maintain, treat, process, handle, generate, dispose of or
otherwise manage. USE shall not include any mode of transportation other than
onsite transportation.
   VESSEL. Every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance
used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water.
(Prior Code, § 93.37) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.04 DETERMINATION OF REPORTABLE QUANTITIES.
   (A)   Listed hazardous materials. The quantity appearing in column “RQ” and
“reportable quantities,” 40 C.F.R. part 302, Table 302.4 - List of Hazardous
Substances and Reportable Quantities, as amended, published by the U.S. EPA
shall be the reportable quantity for that material.
   (B)   Unlisted hazardous material.
      (1)   Unlisted hazardous wastes designated as hazardous materials have
the reportable quantity of 100 pounds, except for those unlisted hazardous
wastes exhibiting the characteristics of Extraction Procedure (EP) toxicity
identified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.24.
      (2)   Unlisted hazardous wastes which exhibit EP toxicity have the
reportable quantities listed in Appendix A to 40 C.F.R.§ 302.4, as amended, for
the contaminant on which the characteristics of EP toxicity is based.
      (3)   If an unlisted hazardous waste exhibits EP toxicity on the basis of
more than one contaminant, the reportable quantity for that waste shall be the
lowest of the reportable quantities listed by Table 302.4 to 40 C.F.R.§ 302.4,
as amended, for those contaminants.
      (4)   If an unlisted hazardous waste exhibits the characteristics of EP
toxicity and one or more of the other characteristics, the reportable quantity
shall be the lowest of the applicable reportable quantities.
   (C)   Oil.
      (1)   The reportable quantity for releases of oil to the waters of the
U.S. or adjoining shorelines is any quantity which violates applicable water
quantity standards or causes a film or sheen upon or discoloration of the
surface of the water or adjoining shorelines or causes a sludge or emulsion to
be deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon adjoining shorelines.
      (2)   The reportable quantity for releases of oil to the environment
other than releases to waters of the U.S. and adjoining shoreline is 56
gallons.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section, a release of
oil from a properly functioning vessel engine shall not be deemed to be in a
reportable quantity; however, this provision shall not be applicable to oil
accumulated in a vessel’s bilges.
   (D)   Releases to sanitary sewer system. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this section, any release of a hazardous material to a sanitary sewer system
which is prohibited under applicable pretreatment or other regulations of any
sanitation district operating within the city governing discharges to the
sanitary sewer system shall be deemed to be discharged in reportable
quantities.
   (E)   Component hazardous materials release. A release of a mixture or
solution of which a hazardous material is a component shall be considered to be
a release in a reportable quantity only where the component hazardous material
of the mixture or solution is released in a quantity equal to or greater than
its reportable quantity.
(Prior Code, § 93.38) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.05 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall cause, threaten or allow the release of hazardous material
into the environment within the territorial boundaries of the city, unless such
release is an authorized release in accordance with an appropriate permit
granted by that agency of state or federal government which has primary
jurisdiction over such release and such release is in such place and manner as
will not create a substantial present or potential hazard to human health,
property or the environment.
(Prior Code, § 93.39) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 NOTICE TO PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS CENTER.
   (A)   Notice upon discovery. When a release or a threatened release, other
than an authorized release, of a hazardous material in a quantity equal to or
exceeding the reportable quantity herein before established for such material
occurs or is imminent on any facilities of any kind within the city, the person
in charge of such facilities, upon discovery of such release or threatened
release, or evidence that a release has occurred even though it has apparently
been controlled, shall immediately cause notice of the existence of such
release or threatened release, the circumstances of same and the location
thereof to the city’s Fire Department.
   (B)   Emergency telephone number. The notice required to be given by this
section in the city may be given by telephoning 502-484-2313, or 502-532-6363
for the Campbellsburg State Police Department after hours (or such other
emergency telephone number as may be subsequently designated). This one call
will meet the requirements for notification of local agencies and, to the
extent permitted by existing or future agreement, will provide notice to
appropriate agencies of the state, including, but not limited to, the Cabinet
for Natural Resources and Environmental Protection, the office of the State
Fire Marshal in the Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction in the
Cabinet for Public Protection and Regulation and the Division of Disaster and
Emergency Services in the Department of Military Affairs.
   (C)   Duty to control releases. The notice required to be given by this
section shall not be construed as forbidding or otherwise exempting any person
on or about the facilities from exercising all diligence necessary to control
such release prior to or subsequent to such notice to the city’s Fire
Department, especially if such efforts may result in the containment of the
release and/or the abatement of extreme hazard to the employees or the general
public. Delays in reporting due to any in-house requirement for notification to
off-site owners or supervisors shall not be acceptable as reason for delay in
notification required by this section, and any such delay may result in
penalties.
(Prior Code, § 93.40) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 ADMINISTERING AGENCY.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a uniform, city-wide program for
protection of the environment from uncontrolled releases of hazardous materials
to be administered by existing agencies of local government. The office of
disaster and emergency services shall be the lead agency in administering this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.41) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.08 RESPONSE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The county’s disaster and emergency services (OCDES) shall have
authority to coordinate response to any release or threatened release of
hazardous materials in any incorporated or unincorporated area of the city.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the jurisdiction in which such release or threatened
release is located shall have primary authority for taking remedial or removal
actions necessary to control or contain such release or threatened release and
to ensure the protection of human health, property and the environment. The
role of OCDES is to give technical advice and assistance to the Fire Chief.
OCDES shall not direct the emergency response unless requested to do so by the
Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative.
   (C)   OCDES or the Fire Chief shall immediately report any release or
threatened release to the executive authority of the jurisdiction (e.g., County
Judge/Executive or his or her administrative assistant, Mayor or City
Coordinator). If in the opinion of the executive authority, the seriousness of
the situation warrants, the Chief Executive Officer of the jurisdiction (County
Judge/Executive or Mayor) shall declare the existence of a state of emergency
in the jurisdiction, and thereafter, the response authority provided by this
section shall then be vested in such chief executive officer. In such event,
the chief executive may authorize OCDES, the Fire Chief or other appropriate
person to exercise all or part of the response authority provided by this
section until further notice.
   (D)   All local emergency response personnel shall cooperate and operate
under the direction of the chief executive officer of the jurisdiction, the
Fire Chief, OCDES or other person then exercising response authority under this
section until such time as the person then exercising response authority has
determined that the response is complete, or responsibility for response has
been assumed by the state or federal agency having primary jurisdiction over
such release or threatened release.
   (E)   The person exercising response authority under this section shall
coordinate and/or cooperate with other federal, state or local public health,
safety and emergency agencies involved in the response to a release or
threatened release of hazardous materials.
   (F)   The person exercising response authority under this section may, with
the approval of the executive authority of the jurisdiction, obtain vital
supplies, equipment, services and other properties found lacking and needed for
the protection of human health, property and the environment and obligate the
jurisdiction for the fair value thereof.
(Prior Code, § 93.42) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.09 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision or rule of law, the following persons
shall be jointly and severally liable for all costs of removal and remedial
actions incurred by local public safety and emergency agencies as a result of a
release or threatened release of hazardous materials into the environment:
   (A)   The owner and operator of a facility or vessel from which there is a
release or substantial threat of release of hazardous materials;
   (B)   Any person who, at the time of disposal, transport, storage or
treatment of hazardous materials, owned or operated the facility or vessel used
for such disposal, transport, treatment or storage from which there was a
release or substantial threat of a release of hazardous material;
   (C)   Any person who by contract, agreement or otherwise has arranged with
another party or entity for transport, storage, disposal or treatment of
hazardous material owned, controlled or possessed by another party or entity
from which facility there is a release or substantial threat of a release of
hazardous materials; and
   (D)   Any person who accepts or accepted any hazardous materials for
transport to disposal, storage or treatment facilities from which there is a
release or substantial threat of a release of hazardous materials.
(Prior Code, § 93.43) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.10 AUTHORIZED RELEASE.
   There shall be no liabilities under this chapter for any release permitted
by state or federal law, but only to the extent that such a release is made in
accordance with an appropriate permit granted by the state or federal agency
having primary jurisdiction over such release and that such release is in full
compliance with such permit with respect to time, location and manner of the
release so that such release will not create a hazard or potential hazard to
human health, property or the environment; or, if such release is in
substantially lesser quantities than those reportable quantities established by
state or federal law, regulations, permit requirements or ordinances of the
jurisdiction in which such release occurs.
(Prior Code, § 93.44) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.11 CONTRACTUAL INDEMNIFICATION; SUBROGATION.
   (A)   No conveyance, transfer, sale, indemnification, hold harmless or
similar agreement shall be effective to release the owner or operator of any
facility or vessel or any person who may be liable for a release of hazardous
materials or threat thereof under this chapter. Nothing in this section shall
bar any arrangement to insure, hold harmless or indemnify a party to such
agreement for any liability under this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this section, including the provisions of division (A)
above, shall bar a cause of action that an owner or operator or any other
person subject to liability under this chapter, or a guarantor, has or would
have, by reason of subjugating on or otherwise against any person.
(Prior Code, § 93.45) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.12 RELEASE PREVENTION; CONTROL PLAN REQUIRED.
   (A)   HMPC Plan. The following persons who have hazardous materials must
prepare, submit and maintain a Hazardous Materials Use and Spill Prevention
Control Plan, hereinafter referred to as HMPC Plan:
      (1)   All federal, state and local government agencies which use
hazardous materials in reportable quantities;
      (2)    All of the following businesses or services within the city which
use hazardous materials, as classified by the Standard Industrial
Classification (SIC) Code:
Classification Business or Service
Classification Business or Service
0782           Lawn and garden services
2011-3999      Manufacturing
4011-4953      Transportation, communications and public utilities
5043           Photographic equipment and supplies (wholesale trade)
5085           Industrial supplies (wholesale trade)
5161-5199      Specific categories in wholesale trade
5541           Gasoline service stations (retail trade)
7011-7218      Industrial and commercial launders and the like, in services
7342           Disinfecting and exterminating services
7395           Photofinishing laboratories in services
7512           Passenger car rental in services
7513           Truck rental and leasing
7538-7549      Automotive repair shop and auto services in services
8062           General medical and surgical hospitals in services
8063           Psychiatric hospital in services
8069           Specialty hospitals except psychiatric in services
 
      (3)   Those persons not covered in divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) above who
use hazardous materials may be required to submit a HMPC Plan if the
administering agency finds it necessary to protect the public health and
safety.
   (B)   Exemption. Exemptions shall be granted for:
      (1)   Persons who handle agricultural chemicals in the ordinary course of
agricultural operations other than warehousing or bulk storage of such
chemicals for resale of commercial application;
      (2)   Persons who handle hazardous materials otherwise regulated only at
temporary construction sites;
      (3)   Persons who handle hazardous materials only in conjunction with
residential use or property for noncommercial purposes; and
      (4)   Consumer products and foodstuffs packaged for distribution to and
intended for use by the general public. This refers to ingredients used in
production of foodstuffs which are regulated by the Federal Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act, being 21 U.S.C. § 301, as amended.
   (C)   Required HMPC Plan elements. The administering agency shall provide
forms with the necessary instructions and requirements for completing HMPC
Plans in compliance with this chapter. The HMPC Plans will include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Facility identification;
      (2)   Spill history;
      (3)   Identification of hazardous materials (HM) storage, in plant
transfer, process and materials handling areas and hazardous materials truck,
rail car and/or vessel loading and unloading areas;
      (4)   Description of plan site runoff from parking areas described in
division (C)(3) above, including in-place containment appurtenances (e.g.,
dikes) and means of releasing rainwater from such areas;
      (5)   Other means of spill prevention, control and countermeasure of all
listed hazardous materials, such as containment or detection equipment and
absorbent materials;
      (6)   Provisions for the operation and maintenance of all items described
in division (C)(5) above;
      (7)   Contingency plans, including spill notification procedures for both
internal personnel as well as outside authorities, including OCDES;
      (8)   Provisions for training of personnel in the utilization of
contingency plans;
      (9)   Security provisions;
      (10)   Provisions for inspections, spill report preparations and records
retention;
      (11)   Schedule (with actual dates or milestones) for HMPC Plan elements
yet to be implemented, with provisions for reporting progress to the
administering agency;
      (12)   Provisions for periodic review and amendments to the HMPC Plan;
      (13)   Certification of the HMPC Plan by a registered professional
engineer or an officer of the company; and
      (14)   For the purpose of this section, only one plan need be submitted
by the owner of electrical equipment at multiple locations when such equipment
contains hazardous materials as a coolant, lubricant or insulation of the
operation of such equipment. Divisions (C)(3) and (C)(5) above shall not apply
to single plans authorized under this division (C)(14).
   (D)   Plan submittal deadlines. Those persons and facilities required to
submit a HMPC Plan under this section shall submit such plans in duplicate to
the administering agency within 180 days following the effective date of this
section provided, however, that persons required to submit such HMPC Plans may
request in writing for extensions of time where the complexity of the
operations involved require additional time in which to complete such plans.
When granted by the administering agency, such extensions of time shall be for
the periods of 30 days, renewable thereafter for like periods until September
1, 1996, at which time all HMPC Plans shall have been submitted to the
administering agency for review.
   (E)   Review and approval of plan.
      (1)   The HMPC Plan shall be reviewed by the administering agency, the
Fire Department having jurisdiction, and, where appropriate, the county’s
Health Department, any sanitation district operating within the city or other
local agency with appropriate authority; however, final administrative action
on the HMPC Plan shall be taken by the administering agency.
      (2)   Upon submission of the HMPC Plan or the granting of time extension
in accordance with division (D) above, the person on submitting the plan shall
be presumed to be in compliance with this section pending final approval of the
plan. HMPC Plans which do not provide the necessary information or are
otherwise defective shall be rejected and returned to the person submitting the
plan for revision and resubmittal.
   (F)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any rejection or denial of approval of an HMPC Plan by the
administering agency may be appealed to the governing body of the jurisdiction
in which the facility for which such plan is submitted is located.
      (2)   As soon as practicable following receipt of notice of such appeal,
the governing body shall conduct a public hearing into the matter and, after
consideration of all evidence and testimony relative to such an appeal, shall,
by majority vote, uphold the finding of the administering agency or may modify
the requirements of the HMPC Plan for the particular facility as it may deem
appropriate so long as such modifications are in compliance with the intent of
this section which is to promote and secure protection of human health,
property and the environment against present or potential hazards occasioned by
the uncontrolled release of hazardous materials into the environment.
   (G)   Updates, revisions and changes. A new or modified HMPC Plan may be
required and submitted to the administering agency when any person institutes
the use of a new process or change in its manufacturing or processing
facilities, or when there is significant change in its existing operations or
wastewater constituents or characteristics.
   (H)   Training and educational programs.
      (1)   Each employer who uses hazardous materials as herein defined and
who is required to prepare an HMPC Plan shall be required to have an initial
and on-going safety and accidents prevention training program for all
employees. This training and education shall include, but not be limited to,
appropriate work practices, protective measures and emergency procedures. The
details and frequency of the training program should be provided as a part of
the HMPC Plan for the facility.
      (2)   The administering agency shall have the authority to require
different frequencies of training for industries with frequent spills and/or
spill histories.
(Prior Code, § 93.46) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.13 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The administering agency and the response authority shall have the
authority to jointly conduct the periodic inspections of any facilities, for
the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be corrected, any condition which
may be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Joint inspection shall be conducted where necessary for purposes of
HMPC Plan review.
   (C)   Inspections shall be made during working hours except by special
arrangement with the person in charge of the facility.
(Prior Code, § 93.47) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.14 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; TRADE SECRETS.
   Information and data provided by any person or obtained from any report,
questionnaire, permit application, permit and monitoring program, and from
inspections shall not be made available to the public or any other government
agency, unless required by law.
   (A)   Upon submission of information in any form, it shall be the obligation
of the submitter to separate all confidential and trade secret material from
any material subject to disclosure under the law.
   (B)   Any request made under the law for information containing confidential
or trade secret information shall be brought to the attention of the person
requesting confidentiality of its trade secrets by certified mail, return
receipt requested. The notification shall advise the person requesting
confidentiality of the decision of the administering agency regarding release
of the confidential information. In no event will such confidential information
be released until five days have elapsed from the date notice is sent by
certified mail.
   (C)   Within 72 hours after receipt of notice, the person requesting
confidentiality of trade secrets shall have the burden to initiate appropriate
actions at law or otherwise to protect the confidential or trade secret
information from disclosure and must demonstrate that public disclosure of
confidential or trade secret information is likely to cause substantial harm to
his or her competitive position.
   (D)   Any individual who releases information containing confidential or
trade secret information in violation of law or this section shall be subject
to disciplinary action by his or her employer for malfeasance, misfeasance and
willful neglect of official duties, and may further be guilty of misuse of
confidential information under KRS 522.040.
   (E)   The provision of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of information, confidential or otherwise, between public agencies
when the exchange is serving a legitimate government need or is necessary in
the performance of a government function including, but not limited to, the
carrying out of the provisions and intent of this chapter.
   (F)   OCDES shall be the repository for all trade secret information for the
purpose of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.48) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15 ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Enforcement. The administering agency and the response authority
herein before designated shall have the joint responsibility for enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice of violation. Upon notification or discovery of any violation
of the provisions of this chapter, the administering agency shall immediately
investigate the site upon which the violation is located. The administering
agency will be the lead enforcement agency for violations of this chapter. If a
violation exists, a notice describing the violation shall be served upon the
person who is responsible for the facilities upon which the violation has
occurred, if the identity of the person is known. The notice shall also include
the following, if applicable:
      (1)   A statement that if the situation is not remedied within the
prescribed period of time, the administering agency may proceed to correct the
violation;
      (2)   A statement that the person shall be liable for any costs incurred
by public agencies associated with the releases, except for those costs that
are associated with a normal emergency response;
      (3)   A statement that after the administering agency has corrected the
violation, a bill shall be sent charging the person the amount of costs and
expenses incurred by the governmental agency in correcting the violation; and
      (4)   A statement that penalties provided for in §
94.99 of this code may be levied for violations that have occurred.
   (C)   Governmental response.
      (1)   In cases where the identity of the person who is responsible for
facilities upon which a violation has occurred is not known at the time a
violation is reported or discovered, the city or any governmental agency within
the city may take reasonable steps to abate any problem and may take reasonable
steps to clean-up the area affected to ensure continuing safety of the public
and the environment.
      (2)   When the identity of the person responsible for the facility is
determined, a bill shall be sent to that person for the cost for correcting the
violation according to the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   Injunction relief. The administering agency is empowered to seek
injunctive relief for violations of this chapter should other means prove
ineffective and a threat to public health and safety exists.
(Prior Code, § 93.49) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 FEES.
   Fees shall be imposed for HMPC Plan review or approval, the revenues of
which shall cover only the costs of HMPC Plan review and approval. The
administering agency shall set and collect fees. The fee schedule shall be
uniform for all persons required to submit HMPC Plans under the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.50) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.17 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the administering
agency or on the part of the response authority for any damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder. All persons are advised to determine to their own satisfaction the
level of protection, in addition to that required by this chapter, necessary or
desirable to ensure that there is no unauthorized release of hazardous
materials.
(Prior Code, § 93.51) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who is responsible for the release or substantial
threat of a release of hazardous materials into the environment in violation of
§
94.05 of this code or who fails to report such release or threatened release in
violation of §
94.06 of this code shall, upon conviction thereof by a court of competent
jurisdiction, be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and subject to a fine or
imprisonment, or by both such fines and imprisonment as is otherwise provided
by law for such offense. Each day that such violation occurs, exists or
continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provisions of §§
94.09 through
94.17 of this code shall, upon conviction thereof by a court of competent
jurisdiction, be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and subject to such fines or
imprisonment or by both such fines and imprisonment as is otherwise provided by
law for such offense. Each day that such violation occurs, exists or continues
shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)
(2) above, any person violating any provisions of §§
94.05 through
94.17 of this code shall become civilly liable to the appropriate county or
city government for any expense, loss or damage to the government or agency
thereof caused by reason of such violation, including, but not limited to, any
clean-up, evacuation, administration or other expenses and legal expenses.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 590, passed 2-6-1996)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   EMPLOYEE LICENSE TAX
      
114.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
115.   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
      
116.   PERSONAL SALES
      
117.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
118.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
119.   MEDICAL CANNABIS SALES
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
Section
Occupational Licenses
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Pro rata of license
   
110.03   Operation of more than one business at same location
   
110.04   Assignment and transference of license
   
110.05   Exhibition of license
   
110.06   Suspension or revocation; appeal procedure
   
110.07   Nonresident businesses; subject to penalties
   
110.08   Disposition of fees
   
110.09   Schedule of occupational unloading license fees
Occupational License Tax
   
110.20   Definitions
   
110.21   License application required
   
110.22   Occupational license tax payment required
   
110.23   Apportionment
   
110.24   Employers to withhold
   
110.25   Returns required
   
110.26   Extensions
   
110.27   Refunds
   
110.28   Federal audit provisions
   
110.29   Administrative provisions
   
110.30   Information to remain confidential
   
110.31   Use of occupational license tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSES
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESSES. As used in this chapter shall equally apply to a proprietorship,
partnership or corporation.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 514, passed 12-13-1989)
§ 110.02 PRO RATA OF LICENSE.
   Licenses for businesses starting after the first of the year may be
prorated, but for not less than three months.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) (Ord. 514, passed 12-13-1989)
§ 110.03 OPERATION OF MORE THAN ONE BUSINESS AT SAME LOCATION.
   Persons operating more than one business at the same location shall pay the
license fee for all businesses, unless otherwise stated.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) (Ord. 514, passed 12-13-1989)
§ 110.04 ASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE.
   A license does not authorize any person other than the named licensee to
operate under such license, unless properly assigned and transferred by the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 110.04) (Ord. 514, passed 12-13-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   Each license shall be kept in a convenient place where it may be exhibited
for inspection.
(Prior Code, § 110.05) (Ord. 514, passed 12-13-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Council may suspend or revoke any license if the business
authorized by it is operated in violation of any law.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by a decision to deny or suspend or revoke a
license shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal
shall be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice
of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be
given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee
at his or her known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
   (C)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 110.06) (Ord. 514, passed 12-13-1989)
§ 110.07 NONRESIDENT BUSINESSES; SUBJECT TO PENALTIES.
   Agents of nonresident businesses are subject to the same penalties as their
principals.
(Prior Code, § 110.07) (Ord. 514, passed 12-13-1989) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   Fees levied hereunder are to be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer, deposited
in the General Fund of the city and used for payment of ordinary operating
expenses.
(Prior Code, § 110.08) (Ord. 514, passed 12-13-1989)
§ 110.09 SCHEDULE OF OCCUPATIONAL AND UNLOADING LICENSE FEES.
   The following occupational and unloading licenses shall be for the calendar
year, unless otherwise stated.
Licenses Fees
Licenses                                                     Fees
Automotive:
   Body shop                                              $75
   New and used car-truck sales                           $175
   New car-truck sales                                    $100
   Used car-truck sales                                   $75
Contractors and tradesmen:                                   $75 per business
   Carpenter                                               
   Electrician                                             
   Equipment operator, excavation                          
   General contractor                                      
   Landscaping, lawn service, tree trimming                
   Painter                                                 
   Pest exterminator                                       
   Plumber                                                 
Entertainment:                                               $10 for each table
                                                             of game machine
   Billiards or pool                                       
   Pinball, video or arcade games                          
Grocery:                                                     $100
   Retail or wholesale                                     
Health and beauty:                                           $50 plus $25 per
                                                             license operator
Insurance:                                                    
   Each agent soliciting sales for nonresident company of $20
agency
   Each license held by each agent                        $20
Junk yard of salvage operation:                              $500
Landlord: All landlords renting or leasing for monetary or in-kind compensation
shall be assessed in accordance to the number of rental units that he or she
has available for lease as of January 1 each year in accordance with the
following schedule:
   1                                                      $75
   2 to 4                                                 $100
   5 to 19                                                $200
   20 to 34                                               $300
   35 to 49                                               $400
   50 to 64                                               $500
   65 to 79                                               $600
   80 to 94                                               $700
   95 cap                                                 $800
Merchant: Any business not specifically listed elsewhere
herein, in the sale or rental of consumer goods to the
general public. This shall not include the sale of items     $75
incident to a primary business for which a fee herein is
levied.
Miscellaneous:                                                
   Any business selling tobacco products, soft drinks or  $15 in addition to
candy                                                        any other fee
                                                             levied
   Any door to door solicitation or sales                 $25
   The following shall not be considered merchants for the purpose of this
chapter and shall be assessed $20: Live bait sales, knitting room, training or
instructional courses.
   Any business not included in a classification under this chapter shall be
assessed at the rate of $50 per year until this chapter may be amended.
   In the event any portion or classification herein shall be deemed
unconstitutional or unenforceable, the remaining portions and classifications
shall remain in force.
                                                             $100 per full-time
Professions:                                                 licensed or
                                                             certified
                                                             professional
                                                             $50 per part-time
                                                             licensed or
                                                            certified
                                                             professional (20
                                                             hours or less per
                                                             week)
   Accountant                                              
   Architect                                               
   Attorney                                                
   Chiropractor                                            
   Civil Engineer                                          
   Dentist                                                 
   Mortician                                               
   Oculist, Optometrist                                    
   Osteopath                                               
   Pharmacist                                              
   Physician                                               
   Licensed Therapist                                      
   Veterinarian                                            
Professional services:                                       $100
   Banking                                                 
   Hospital                                                
   Nursing care facility                                   
Restaurant:                                                  $75
Services:                                                    $50
   Auctioneer (or $10 per sale)                            
   Car wash                                                
   Day care-preschool                                      
   Dry-cleaning or solicitation                            
   Laundromat                                              
   Locksmith                                               
   Mechanic                                                
   Photographic studio                                     
   Printing                                                
   Publishing                                              
   Realtor (or $10 per listing)                            
   Repair service                                          
   Security service                                        
   Upholstery                                              
Temporary license:                                            
   Sale of fruit, produce or other food items             $15 per week, $60
                                                             per year
   Sale of liquor by the drink                            $500
   Sale of nonfood items                                  $50
Unloading:                                                    
   Over one-half ton                                      $50
   Under one-half ton                                     $25
 
(Prior Code, § 110.09) (Ord. 514, passed 12-13-1989; Ord. 704, passed 3-6-2012;
Ord. 746, passed 12-2-2014; Ord. 762, passed 4-2-2019)
OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX
§ 110.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Each separate corporation, limited liability company,
business development corporation, partnership, limited partnership, registered
limited liability partnership, sole proprietorship, association, joint stock
company, receivership, trust, professional service organization or other legal
entity though which business is conducted.
   BUSINESS. Any enterprise, activity, trade, occupation, profession or
undertaking of any nature conducted for gain or profit. BUSINESS shall not
include the usual activities of board of trade, chambers of commerce, trade
associations or unions or other associations performing services usually
performed by trade associations or unions. BUSINESS shall not include funds,
foundations, corporations or associations organized and operated for the
exclusive and sole purpose of religious, charitable, scientific, literary,
educational, civic or fraternal purposes, where no part of the earnings,
incomes or receipts of such unit, group or association, inures to the benefit
of any private shareholder or other person.
   CITY. The City of Owenton, Kentucky.
   COMPENSATION. Wages, salaries, commissions or any other form of remuneration
paid or payable by an employer for services performed by an employee, which are
required to be reported for federal income tax purposes and adjusted as
follows:
      (1)   Include any amounts contributed by an employee to any retirement,
profit sharing or deferred compensation plan, which are deferred for federal
income tax purposes under a salary reduction agreement or similar arrangement,
including but not limited to salary reduction arrangements under I.R.C. §§ 401
(a), 401(k), 402(e), 403(a), 403(b), 408, 414(h) or 457; and
      (2)   Include my amounts contributed by an employee to welfare benefit
fringe benefit, or other benefit plan made by salary reduction or other payment
method which permits employees to elect to reduce federal taxable compensation
under the Internal Revenue Code, including but not limited to I.R.C. §§ 125 and
132.
   CONCLUSION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The date that the adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service to net income as reported on the business entity’s
federal income tax return become final and unappealable.
   FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE FEDERAL AUDIT. The revenue agent’s report or
other documents reflecting the final and unappealable adjustments made by the
Internal Revenue Service.
   FISCAL YEAR. An accounting period of 12 months ending on the last day of any
month other than December.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who renders services to another person or any business
entity for compensation, including an officer of a corporation and any officer,
employee or elected official of the United States, a state, or political
subdivision of a state, or any agency of instrumentality of any one or more of
the above. A person classified as an independent contractor under the Internal
Revenue Code shall not be considered an EMPLOYEE.
   EMPLOYER. The person for whom an individual performs or performed any
service, of whatever nature, as the employee of such person, except that:
      (1)   If the person for whom the individual performs or performed the
services does not have control of the payment of the wages for such services,
the term EMPLOYER means the person having control of the payment of such wages;
and
      (2)   In the case of a person paying wages on behalf of a nonresident,
alien individual, foreign partnership or foreign corporation, not engaged in
trade or business within the U.S., the term EMPLOYER means such person.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code in effect on December 3,
2003, exclusive of any amendments made subsequent to that date, other than
amendments that extend provisions in effect on December 31, 2004, that would
otherwise terminate.
   NET PROFIT. Gross income as defined in I.R.C. § 61 minus all the deductions
from gross income allowed by I.R.C. § 1, and adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction for state tax or local
tax which is computed, in whole or in part by reference to gross or net income
and which is paid or accrued to any state of the United States, local taxing
authority in a state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
Rico, any territory or possession of the United States or any foreign country
or political subdivision thereof;
      (2)   Include any amount claimed as a deduction that directly or
indirectly is allocable to income which is either exempt from taxation or
otherwise not;
      (3)   Include any amount claimed as a net operating loss carryback or
carryforward allowed under I.R.C. § 172;
      (4)   Include any amount of income and expenses passed through separately
as required by the Internal Revenue Code to an owner of a business entity that
is a pass through entity for federal tax purposes; and
      (5)   Exclude any amount of income that is exempt from state taxation by
the Constitution of the state, or the Constitution and statutory laws of the
United States.
   PERSON. Every natural person, whether a resident or nonresident of the city.
Whenever the word PERSON is used in a clause prescribing and imposing a penalty
in the nature of a fine or imprisonment, the word, as applied to a partnership
or other unincorporated enterprise, shall mean the partners or members thereof,
and as applied to corporations, shall mean the officers and directors thereof.
   RETURN or REPORT. Any properly completed and, if required, signed form,
statement, certification, declaration, many other document permitted or
required to be submitted or filed with the city.
   SALES REVENUE. Receipts from the sale, lease or rental of goods, services or
property.
   TAX DISTRICT. Any city of the first to fifth class with the authority to
levy net profits or occupational license taxes.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue only within the city means NET PROFIT as defined above.
   TAXABLE NET PROFIT. In case of a business entity having payroll or sales
revenue both within and without the city means NET PROFIT as defined above and
as apportioned under §
110.23 of this code.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or fiscal year ending during the calendar
year, upon the basis of which net profit is computed.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 110.21 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person and business entity engaged in any business in the city
shall be required to apply for and obtain an occupational license from the city
before the commencement of business or in the event of a change of business
status.
   (B)   Licensees are required to notify the city of any changes in address,
the cessation of business or any other changes which render the information
supplied to the city in the license application inaccurate.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 110.22 OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX PAYMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, every person or business
entity engaged in any business for profit and any person or business entity
that is required to make a filing with the Internal Revenue Service or the
state’s Revenue Cabinet shall be required to file and pay to the city an
occupational license tax for the privilege of engaging in such activities
within the city. The occupational license tax shall be measured by 1.5% of:
      (1)   All wages and compensation paid or payable in the city for work
done or services performed or rendered in the city by every resident and
nonresident who is an employee; and
      (2)   The net profit from business conducted in the city by a resident or
nonresident business entity.
   (B)   The occupational license tax imposed in this section shall not apply
to the following persons or business entities:
      (1)   Any bank, trust company, combined bank and trust company or trust,
any banking and title insurance company organized and doing business in this
state, any savings and loan association whether state or federally chartered;
      (2)   Any compensation received by members of the state’s National Guard
for active duty training, unit training assemblies and annual field training;
      (3)   Any compensation received by precinct workers for election training
or work at election booths in a state, county or local primary, regular or
special elections;
      (4)   Public service corporations that pay an ad valorem tax on property
valued and assessed of the state’s Department of Revenue pursuant to the
provisions of KRS 136.120. Licensees whose businesses are predominantly non-
public service who are also engaged in public service activity are required to
pay a license fee on their net profit derived from the non-public service
activities apportioned to the city;
      (5)   Persons or business entities that have been issued a license under
KRS Chapter 243 to engage in manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages. Persons engaged in the business of manufacturing or trafficking in
alcoholic beverages are required to file a return, but may exclude the portion
of their net profits derived from the manufacturing or trafficking in alcoholic
beverages; and
      (6)   Life insurance companies incorporated under the laws of and doing
business in the state.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. 770, passed 1-4-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23 APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, net profit shall be
apportioned as follows:
      (1)   For business entities with both payroll and sales revenue in more
than one tax district, by multiplying the net profit by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the payroll factor, described in division (B) below, plus
the sales factor, described in division (C) below, and the denominator of which
is two; and
      (2)   For business entities with sales revenue in more than one tax
district, by multiplying the net profit by the sales factor as set forth in
division (C) below.
   (B)   (1)   The payroll factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the
total amount paid or payable in the city during the tax period by the business
entity for compensation; and the denominator of which is the total compensation
paid or payable by the business entity everywhere during the tax period.
      (2)   Compensation is paid or payable in the city based on the time the
individual’s service is performed within the city.
   (C)   The sales factor is a fraction, the numerator of which is the total
sales revenue of the business entity in the city during the tax period, and the
denominator of which is the total sales revenue of the business entity
everywhere during the tax period.
      (1)   The sale, lease or rental of tangible personal property is in the
city if:
         (a)   The property is delivered or shipped to a purchaser, other than
the United States, government, or to the designee of the purchaser within the
city regardless of the f.o.b. point or other conditions of the sale; or
         (b)   The property is shipped from an office, store, warehouse,
factory or other place of storage in the city and the purchaser is the U.S.
Government.
      (2)   Sales revenues, other than revenues from the sale, lease or rental
of tangible personal property or the lease or rental of real property, are
apportioned to the city based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the
time spent in performing such income-producing activity within the city and the
denominator of which is the total time spent performing that income-producing
activity.
      (3)   Sales revenue from the sale, lease or rental of real property is
allocated to the tax district where the property is located.
   (D)   If the apportionment provisions of this section do not fairly
represent the extent of the business entity’s activity in the city, the
business entity may petition the city or the city may require. In respect to
all or any part of the business entity’s business activity, if reasonable:
      (1)   Separate accounting;
      (2)   The exclusion of any one or more of the factors;
      (3)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors which will
represent the business entity business activity in the city; or
      (4)   The employment of any other method to effectuate an equitable
allocation and apportionment of net profit.
   (E)   (1)   When compensation is paid or payable for work done or services
performed or rendered by an employee, both within and without the city, the
license tax shall be measured by that part of the compensation paid or payable
as a result of work done or service performed or rendered within the city.
      (2)   The license tax shall be computed by obtaining the percentage which
the compensation for work performed or services rendered within the city bears
to the total wages, and compensation paid or payable.
      (2)   In order for the city to verify the accuracy of a taxpayer’s
reported percentages under this division (E), the taxpayer shall maintain
adequate records.
   (F)   All partnerships, S corporations and all other entities where income
is “passed through” to the owners, are subject to this subchapter. The
occupational license tax imposed in this subchapter is assessed against income
before it is “passed through” these entities to the owners.
   (G)   If any business entity dissolves, ceases to operate or withdraws from
the city during any taxable year, or if any business entity in any manner
surrenders or loses its charter during any taxable year, the dissolution,
cessation of business, withdrawal or loss or surrender of charter shall not
defeat the filing of returns and the assessment and collection of any
occupational license tax for the period of that taxable year during which the
business entity had business activity in the city.
   (H)   If a business entity makes, or is required to make, a federal income
tax return, the occupational license tax shall be computed for the purposes of
this subchapter on the basis of the same calendar or fiscal year required by
the federal government and shall employ the same methods of accounting required
for federal income tax purposes.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 110.24 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD.
   (A)   Every employer making payment of compensation to an employee shall
deduct and withhold from the compensation an occupational license tax
calculated under §
110.22 of this code.
   (B)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section,
shall, for the quarter ending after January 1 and for each quarter ending
thereafter, on or before the end of the month following the close of each
quarter, make return and report to the city and pay to the city the tax
required to be withheld under this section, unless the employer is permitted or
required to report within a reasonable time after some other period as
determined by the city.
   (C)   Every employer who fails to withhold or pay to the city any sums
required by this subchapter to be withheld and paid shall be personally and
individually liable to the city for any sum or sums withheld or required to be
withheld in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city shall have a lien upon all the property of any employer who
fails to withhold or pay over to the city sums required to be withhold under
this section. If the employer withholds but fails to pay the amounts withheld
to the city, the lien shall commence, as of the date the amounts withheld were
required to be paid to the city, if the employer fails to withhold, the lien
shall commence at the time the liability of the employer is assessed by the
city.
   (E)   Every employer required to deduct and withhold tax under this section
shall annually, on or before February 28 of each year, complete and file on a
form furnished of approved by the city reconciliation of the occupational
license tax withheld where compensation is paid or payable to employees. Either
copies of federal forms W-2 and W-3, transmittal of wage and tax statements or
a detailed employee listing with the required equivalent information, as
determined by the city shall be submitted.
   (F)   Every employer shall furnish each employee a statement on or before
January 31 of each year showing the amount of compensation and occupational
license tax deducted by the employer from the compensation paid to the employee
for payment to the city during the preceding calendar year.
   (G)   An employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required to be
deducted and withheld under this section.
   (H)   (1)   The president, vice president, secretary, treasurer or any other
person holding an equivalent corporate office of any business entity subject to
this section shall be personally and individually liable, both jointly and
severally, for any tax required to be withheld from compensation paid or
payable to one or more employees of the business entity and neither the
corporate dissolution or withdrawal of the business entity from the city, nor
the cessation of holding any corporate office, shall discharge that liability;
provided, that the personal and individual liability shall apply to each and
every person holding the corporate office at the time the tax becomes or became
obligated.
      (2)   No person shall be personally and individually liable under this
division (H), unless such person had authority to collect, truthfully account
for or pay over the tax imposed by this subchapter at the time that the taxes
imposed by this subchapter become or became due.
   (I)   (1)   Not withstanding divisions (G) and (H) above, every employee
receiving compensation in the city subject to the tax imposed under §
110.22 of this code shall be personally liable for any amount due.
      (2)   In all cases where the employer does not withhold the tax levied
under this subchapter from the employee, such employee or employees shall be
responsible for filing with the city each quarter in the same manner as if they
were the employer.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.25 RETURNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All business entity returns for the preceding taxable year shall be
made by April 15 of each year, except returns made on the basis of a fiscal
year, which shall be made by the fifteenth day of the fourth month following
the close of the fiscal year. Blank forms for returns shall be supplied by the
city.
   (B)   (1)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of its federal income
tax return and all supporting statements and schedules at the time of filing
its occupational license tax return with the city.
      (2)   Whenever in the opinion of the city it is necessary to examine the
federal income tax return of any business entity in order to audit the return,
the city may compel the business entity to produce for inspection a copy of any
statements and schedules in support thereof that have not been previously
filed.
      (3)   The city may also require copies of reports of adjustments made by
the federal government.
   (C)   (1)   Every business entity subject to an occupational license tax
governed by the provisions of this subchapter shall keep records, render under
oath statements, make returns and comply with rules as the city from time to
time may prescribe.
      (2)   Whenever the city deems it necessary, the city may require a
business entity, by notice served to the business entity, to make a return,
render statements under oath, or keep records, as the city deems sufficient to
determine the tax liability the business entity.
   (D)   The city may require, for the purpose of ascertaining the correctness
of any return or for the purposes of making an estimate of the taxable income
of any business entity, the attendance of a representative of the business
entity or of any other person having knowledge in the premises.
   (E)   The full amount of the unpaid tax payable by any business entity, as
appears from the face of the return, shall be paid to the city at the time
prescribed for filing the occupational license tax return, determined without
regard to any extension of time for filing the return.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008; Ord. 770, passed 1-4-2022)
§ 110.26 EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The city may grant any business entity an extension of not more than
six months, unless a longer extension has been granted by the Internal Revenue
Service or is agreed to by the city and the business entity, for filing its
return, if the business entity, on or before the date prescribed for payment of
the occupational license tax, requests the extension and pays the amount
properly estimated as its tax.
   (B)   (1)   If the time for filing a return is extended, the business shall
pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to 2% per annum simple interest on the
tax shown due on the return, but not been previously paid, from the time the
tax was due until the return is actually filed and the tax paid to the city.
      (2)   A fraction of a month is counted as an entire month.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 110.27 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Where there has been an overpayment of tax under §
110.24 of this code, a refund or credit shall be made to the employer to the
extent of overpayment only if a written application for refund or credit is
received by the city from the employer within two years from the date the
overpayment was made.
   (B)   (1)   An employee who has compensation attributable to activities
performed outside the city, based on time spent outside the city, whose
employer has withheld and remitted to this city, the occupational license tax
on the compensation attributable to activities performed outside the city, may
file for a refund within two years of the date prescribed by law for the filing
of a return.
      (2)   The employee shall provide a schedule and computation sufficient to
verify the refund claim and the city may confirm with the employer the
percentage of time spent outside the city and the amount of compensation
attributable to activities performed outside the city prior to approval of the
refund.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 110.28 FEDERAL AUDIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after each return is received, the city
may examine and audit the return. If the amount of tax computed by the city is
greater than the amount returned by the business entity, the additional tax
shall be assessed and notice of assessment mailed to the business entity by the
city, within five years from the date the return was filed, except as otherwise
provided in this division (A).
         (a)   In the case of a failure to file a return or of a fraudulent
return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time.
         (b)   In the case of a return where a business entity understates net
profit, or omits an amount properly includable in net profits, or both, which
understatement or omission, or both, is in excess of 25% of the amount of net
profit stated in the return, the additional tax may be assessed at any time
within six years after the return was filed.
         (c)   In the case of an assessment of additional tax relating directly
to adjustments resulting from a final determination of a federal audit, the
additional tax may be assessed before the expiration of the times provided in
this division (A), or six months from the date the city receives the final
determination of the federal audit from the business entity, whichever is
later.
      (2)   The times provided in this division (A) may be extended by
agreement between the business entity and the city. For the purposes of this
division (A), a return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing
the return shall be considered as filed on the last day. Any extension granted
for filing the return shall also be considered as extending the last day
prescribed by law for filing the return.
   (B)   Every business entity shall submit a copy of the final determination
of the federal audit within 30 days of the conclusion of the federal audit.
   (C)   The city may initiate a civil action for the collection of any
additional tax within the times prescribed in division (A) above.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 110.29 ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No suit shall be maintained in any court to restrain or delay the
collection or payment of the tax levied by this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any tax collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
may be refunded or credited within two years of the date prescribed by law for
the filing of a return or the date the money was paid to the city, whichever is
the later, except that:
         (a)   In any case where the assessment period contained in §
110.28 of this code has been extended by an agreement between the business
entity and the city, the limitation contained in this division (B) shall be
extended accordingly; and
         (b)   If the claim for refund or credit relates directly to
adjustments resulting from a federal audit, the business entity shall file a
claim for refund or credit within the time provided for in this division (B) or
six months from the conclusion of the federal audit, whichever is later.
      (2)   For the purposes of this division (B) and division (A) above, a
return filed before the last day prescribed by law for filing the return shall
be considered as filed on the last day.
      (3)   The authority to refund or credit overpayments of taxes collected
pursuant to this subchapter is vested exclusively in the city.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 110.30 INFORMATION TO REMAIN CONFIDENTIAL.
   (A)   (1)   No present or former employee of any tax district shall
intentionally and without authorization inspect or divulge any information
acquired by him or her of the affairs of any person, or information regarding
the tax schedules, return or reports required to be filed with the tax district
or other proper officer, or any information produced by a hearing or
investigation, insofar as the information may have to do with the affairs of
the person’s business.
      (2)   This prohibition does not extend to information required in
prosecutions for making false reports or returns for taxation, or any other
infraction of the tax laws, or in any way made a matter of public record, nor
does it preclude furnishing any taxpayer or the taxpayer’s properly authorized
agent with information respecting his or her own return. Further, this
prohibition does not preclude any employee of the tax district from testifying
in any court, or from introducing as evidence returns or reports filed with the
tax district, in an action for violation of a tax district tax law or in any
action challenging a district tax law.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to disclose to the State Commissioner of
Revenue, or his or her duly authorized agent, all such information and rights
to inspect any of the books and records of the city if the State Commissioner
of Revenue grants to the city the reciprocal right to obtain information from
the files and records of the state’s Department of Revenue and maintains the
privileged character of the information so furnished. Provided further, that
the city may publish statistics based on such information in such a manner as
not to reveal data respecting net profits or compensation of any person or
business entity.
   (C)   In addition, the city is empowered to execute similar reciprocity
agreements as described in division (B) above with any other taxing entity,
should there be a need for exchange of information in order to effect diligent
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.31 USE OF OCCUPATIONAL LICENSE TAX.
   All money derived from the license taxes under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be paid to the city and placed to the credit of the city’s
General Revenue Fund.
(Ord. 672, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Businesses in violation of §§
110.01 through
110.09 of this code are subject to a fine not less than $50 nor more than $500.
A fine does not satisfy the unpaid tax. Prosecution shall be any complaint
sworn to by the Mayor or Clerk. Violators may be confined in jail for not more
than 30 days.
      (2)   Upon the failure of any proprietorship, partnership or corporation
to pay the license fee provided above within 30 days of the date due, a penalty
of 10% of the license fee due shall be assessed.
      (3)   Upon the failure of any proprietorship, partnership or corporation
to pay the license fee provided above, including the penalty, within 90 days of
the date due, the Mayor or City Clerk-Treasurer shall file a complaint with the
County Attorney for prosecution in the county district court.
(Prior Code, § 110.99)
   (C)   (1)   (a)   A business entity subject to tax on net profits may be
subject to a penalty equal to 5% of the tax due for each calendar month or
fraction thereof it the business entity:
            1.   Fails to file any return or report on or before the due date
prescribed for filing as extended by the city; or
            2.   Fails to pay the tax computed on the return or report on or
before the due date prescribed for payment.
         (b)   The total penalty levied pursuant to this division (C) shall not
exceed 25% of the total tax due; however, the penalty shall not be less than
$25.
      (2)   Every employer who falls to file a return or pay the tax on or
before the time prescribed under §
110.24 of this code may be subject to a penalty in amount equal to 5% of the
tax due for each calendar month or fraction thereof. The total penalty levied
pursuant to this division (C)(2) shall not exceed 25% of total tax due;
however, the penalty shall not be less than $25.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this division (C), any
business entity or employer shall pay, as part of the tax, an amount equal to
12% per annum simple interest on the tax shown due, but not previously paid,
from the time the tax was due until the tax is paid to the city. A fraction of
a month is counted as an entire month.
      (4)   Every tax imposed by §§
110.20 through
110.31 of this code, and all increases, interest and penalties thereon, shall
become, from the time the tax is due and payable, a personal debt of the
taxpayer to the city.
      (5)   The city may enforce the collection of the occupational tax due
under §
110.22 of this code and any fees, penalties and interest as provided in
divisions (C)(1) through (C)(4) above by civil action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. To the extent authorized bylaw, the city shall be entitled to
recover all court costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by it in
enforcing any provision of §
110.20 through
110.31 of this code.
      (6)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in this division (C), any
business entity or employer who willfully falls to make a return or willfully
makes a false return, or who willfully falls to pay taxes owing or collected,
with the intent to evade payment of the tax or amount collected, or any part
thereof, shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor.
      (7)   Any person who willfully aids or assists in, or procures, counsels
or advises the preparation or presentation under, or in connection with any
matter arising under §§
110.20 through
110.31 of this code, of a return, affidavit, claim or other document, which is
fraudulent or is false as to any material matter, whether or not the falsity or
fraud is with the knowledge or consent of the person authorized or required to
present the return, affidavit, claim or document, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      (8)   A return for the purpose of this division (C) shall mean and
include any return, declaration or form prescribed by the city and required to
be filed with the city by the provisions of §§
110.20 through
110.31 of this code, or by the rules of the city or by written request for
information to the business entity by the city.
      (9)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.30 of this code by intentionally inspecting confidential taxpayer
information without authorization, shall be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not longer than six months, or both.
      (10)   Any person violating the provisions of §
110.30 of this code by divulging confidential taxpayer information shall be
fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
(Ord. 514, passed 12-13-1989; Ord. 534, passed 11-6-1991; Ord. 672, passed 5-6-
2008)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an ITINERANT
MERCHANT, PEDDLER or SOLICITOR as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries;
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city; and
      (3)   A person who is a PEDDLER is not an itinerant merchant.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a peddler.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the legislative body.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk-Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city; the local address of such individual; the permanent
address of such individual; and the capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to be
offered for sale or delivered; if goods, their invoice value and whether they
are to be sold by sample as well as from stock; and if goods, where and by whom
such goods are manufactured or grown and where such goods are at the time of
application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above, has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant’s business; and
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts;
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character will constitute valid reasons
for disapproval of an application.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
City Clerk-Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06 of this code.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 of this code shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body
shall set the time and place for a hearing and notice for such hearing shall be
given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05 of this code.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
“licensed peddler” or “licensed solicitor,” the expiration date of the license
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 111.99)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his or her place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010) (Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1,000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he or she will observe the provisions of this chapter
and all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020) (Prior Code, § 112.02)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and purchases of
all articles effected or made by him or her. The register shall show the dates
of all loans or purchases, and the names of all persons who have left any
property on deposit as collateral security or as a delivery or sale. Opposite
the names and dates shall be written in plain hand a full description of all
property purchased or received on deposit as collateral security, the time when
the loan falls due, the amount of purchase money, the amount loaned and the
interest charged. The register shall at all times be open to the inspection of
any police officer of the city when in the discharge of his or her official
duty.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports.
(KRS 226.070)
(Prior Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) of this code to be kept in his or her register. He or she shall not
make any charge for the ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 90
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker’s register, notifying such person that, unless he or
she redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice,
the article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050) (Prior Code, § 112.04) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker, as defined in §
112.01 of this code, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property,
charge, contract for or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month
on the unpaid principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for and
receive a reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per
month, for investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing
the loan, making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by
§
112.03 of this code, and for other expenses, losses and incidental costs
associated with servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and
collected, shall not be deemed as interest for any purpose of law.
   (B)   No pawnbroker shall directly or indirectly charge, receive or contract
for any interest or consideration greater that the allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080) (Prior Code, § 112.05) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090) (Prior Code, § 112.06) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time, nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030) (Prior Code, § 112.07) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100) (Prior Code, § 112.08)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker’s clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his or her license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) of this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $20 nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
(Prior Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113: EMPLOYEE LICENSE TAX
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Employers to withhold license fees and file returns
   
113.04   Returns to be filed by employees
   
113.05   Duties of the Clerk-Treasurer
   
113.06   Investigative powers of the Clerk-Treasurer
   
113.07   Regulations may be promulgated
   
113.08   Information to be confidential
   
113.09   Use of license fees
   
113.10   Subchapter S and professional service corporations
   
113.11   Violations and interest
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person engaging in or following any trade, occupation or
profession within the meaning of TRADE, OCCUPATION and PROFESSIONS below.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, business, firm, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental body, unit, administration or agency or other entity or
organization, that employs one or more persons in any trade, occupation or
profession in the city with the meaning of TRADE, OCCUPATION and PROFESSIONS
below.
   GROSS RECEIPTS AND COMPENSATION. The total gross amount of all salaries,
wages, commissions, bonuses or other money payments of any kind, or other
considerations having monetary value, that a person received from or is
entitled to receive from or be given credit for by his or her employer for any
work done or personal services rendered in any trade, occupation or profession,
including any kind of deductions before “take home” pay is received. GROSS
RECEIPTS AND COMPENSATION shall not mean or include amounts paid to traveling
salesmen or other workers as allowances or reimbursement for traveling or other
expenses incurred in the business of the employer, except to the extent of the
excess of such amounts over such expenses actually incurred and accounted for
by the employee to this employer. In the case of self-employed persons, GROSS
RECEIPTS AND COMPENSATION shall mean the total revenue of the business or
profession, less all deductible costs of operations except income taxes.
   LICENSEE. Any person required to file a return or to pay a license fee under
this chapter.
   TRADE, OCCUPATION and PROFESSIONS. The doing of any kind of work, the
rendering of any kind of personal services or the holding of any kind of
position or job within the city by any clerk, laborer, tradesman, manager,
official or other employee, including any nonresident of the city who is
employed by any employer as defined herein, where the relationship between the
individual performing the services, and the person for whom the services are
rendered is, as to those services, the legal relationship of employer and
employee, including also a partner of a firm or an officer of a firm or
corporation if the partner or officer received a salary or other compensation
for his or her personal services rendered in the business of the firm or
corporation. TRADE, OCCUPATION and PROFESSIONS shall also include the holding
of any kind of office or position, either by election or appointment, by any
federal, state, county or city officers or employee, or employee of any
governmental body, unit administration or agency, or other entity, where the
services of the official or employee are rendered within the city, and shall
further include all employment by the city whether the services are rendered
within or without the city.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Ord. 541, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or follow any trade,
occupation or profession within the city without paying a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in or following such trade, occupation or profession. The
license fee shall be measured by 1% of the gross receipts of each person.
   (B)   In cases where compensation is earned as a result of work done or
services performed both within and without the city, the license fee required
under this chapter shall be computed by determining upon the oath of the
employer, or if required by the City Clerk-Treasurer, upon the oath of the
employee, that the percentage of the compensation earned is from the proportion
of the work that was done or performed within the city. Except, however, that
no adjustment or credit shall be computed for any employee whose compensation
without the city is less than 20% of the total compensation.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Ord. 541, passed 9-1-1992) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 EMPLOYERS TO WITHHOLD LICENSE FEES AND FILE RETURNS.
   (A)   Every employer who employs one or more persons within the city shall
deduct from the pay due any employee the amount of the license fee measured by
the salary, wage, commission or other compensation due each employee by the
employer at the time of payment thereof, on any such sums earned. The payments
required to be made on account of such deductions by employers shall be made
quarterly to the City Clerk-Treasurer for the quarterly periods June 30,
September 30, December 31 and March 31 of each year, on or before the last day
of the month next following the end of each quarterly period. The failure or
omission by an employer to deduct the license fee shall not relieve an employee
from the payment of the license fee and compliance with the requirements for
making returns as provided in this chapter, or with any regulations promulgated
under this chapter.
   (B)   The employer shall, on or before January 31 of each year, furnish to
each employee to whom a salary, wage, commission or other compensation is due
in accordance herewith, a statement showing the gross amount of wage, salary,
commission or other compensation and the amount deducted and paid by the
employer during the previous year.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Ord. 541, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 113.04 RETURNS TO BE FILED BY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   When a return, in form and substance satisfactory to the City Clerk-
Treasurer, is not filed by an employer and the license fees are not paid to the
city by the employer, the employee for whom no return has been filed and no
payment has been made shall file a return with the City Clerk-Treasurer on or
before January 31, showing his or her gross receipts subject to license fees
during the preceding calendar year. Any employee failing to file a return and
pay the license fee shall, in addition thereto, be assessed 12% per annum
interest from January 31, the due date, until paid, and a penalty of 10% of the
amount of the unpaid license fee, with a minimum penalty of $5. The return may
be made by completing the original copy of the statement furnished him or her
by his or her employer if the statement shows all of the compensation earned by
him or her wherever employed during the period for which the return is made.
   (B)   If for any reason all license fees of a person subject to the
provisions of this chapter were not withheld by his or her employer from his or
her gross receipts, the person shall file the return required by this section
on a form obtainable at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. In addition to
the gross receipts earned by him or her, the return shall show other pertinent
information as may be required by the City Clerk-Treasurer. Each person making
a return required by this section shall, at the time of filing thereof, pay to
the City Clerk-Treasurer the amount of license fee due under this chapter;
provided, that any portion of the license fee deducted at the source shall be
deducted on the return, and only the balance, if any, shall be due and payable
at the time of filing the return. The amount of any license fees that were due
on April 30, July 31, October 31 and January 31, in each year as provided
herein, shall bear interest from the date the same became due at the rate of
12% per annum until paid, and the employer failing to pay the same when due
shall also pay the penalty imposed under §
113.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) (Ord. 541, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 113.05 DUTIES OF THE CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to collect and receive all
license fees imposed by this chapter and to keep records showing the amounts
received by him or her for each employer.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall, in his or her discretion, have the
authority to extend the filing of returns required by this chapter. Such
extension shall be upon the written request of the licensee. Any balance unpaid
when payment is due under the terms of this chapter shall bear interest at the
rate of 12% per annum until paid.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) (Ord. 541, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 113.06 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   The Clerk-Treasurer, or any agent or employee designated by him or her, is
authorized to examine the books, papers and records of any employer or of any
licensee or supposed licensee in order to determine the accuracy of any report
made or, if no return was made, to ascertain the amount of license fee due
under the terms of this chapter by such examination. Each employer or supposed
employer or licensee or supposed licensee shall give to the Clerk-Treasurer, or
to his or her duly authorized agent or employee, the means, facilities and
opportunities for the making of such examination and investigation. The Clerk-
Treasurer is authorized to examine any person under oath concerning any gross
receipts that were or should have been shown in a return, and to this end, he
or she may compel the production of books, papers, records and the attendance
of all persons before him or her, whether as parties or as witnesses, whom he
or she believes to have knowledge of the gross receipts or compensation, to the
extent that any officer empowered to administer oaths in the commonwealth is
permitted to so order.
(Prior Code, § 113.06) (Ord. 541, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 113.07 REGULATIONS MAY BE PROMULGATED.
   The City Clerk-Treasurer, acting under the direction of the City Council, is
charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, and subject to
the approval of the City Council, is empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate
and enforce regulations relating to any matter or thing pertaining to the
administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, provisions for the reexamination and correction of returns
as to which an overpayment or underpayment is claimed or found to have been
made, and the regulations so promulgated shall be binding upon all licensees
and employers.
(Prior Code, § 113.07) (Ord. 541, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 113.08 INFORMATION TO BE CONFIDENTIAL.
   Any information gained by the City Clerk-Treasurer or any other official,
agent or employee of the city as a result of any returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by this chapter shall be
confidential except for official purposes, except in accordance with a proper
judicial order or as otherwise provided by law. The City Clerk-Treasurer may
disclose to the state’s Commissioner of Revenue, or his or her duly authorized
agent, all such information and grant the right to inspect any of the books or
records of the City Clerk-Treasurer if the Commissioner grants to the City
Clerk-Treasurer the reciprocal right to obtain information from the files and
records of the Revenue Cabinet of the state and maintains the privileged
character of the information so furnished to him or her. The city may publish
statistics based on such information in such a manner as not to reveal data
respecting the gross receipts of any person.
(Prior Code, § 113.08) (Ord. 541, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 113.09 USE OF LICENSE FEES.
   All money derived from license fees under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid to the City Clerk-Treasurer and placed to the credit of the
General Revenue Fund of the city and shall be used and expended in defraying
the current, general and incidental expenses of the city, or for capital
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 113.09) (Ord. 541, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 113.10 SUBCHAPTER S AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICE CORPORATIONS.
   Individuals who are licensed under state law to engage in or practice a
profession, business, trade or other occupation, who are shareholders of
corporations qualified as subchapter S or professional service corporations,
and who provide services for said entities within the city shall be subject to
payment of the license fee based on their salary or other distribution from
said corporation for services provided.
(Prior Code, § 113.10) (Ord. 541, passed 9-1-1992)
§ 113.11 VIOLATIONS AND INTEREST.
   (A)   All license fees imposed by this chapter that remain unpaid after they
become due shall bear interest at the rate of 12% per annum, and any person who
has failed to pay such license fees when the same became due shall also be
charged a penalty of 10% of the amount of the unpaid license fees. Any person
or employer who fails or refuses to withhold any license fee payable under this
chapter, or who fails to pay such fees after withholding the same to the City
Clerk-Treasurer at the time it is due as provided under the terms herein shall
become liable to the city for such fees, as well as for the interest thereon at
the rate of 12% per annum and for the aforesaid penalty, provided, that the
minimum penalty imposed against the person or employer shall be $10.
   (B)   No person or employer shall: Fail, neglect or refuse to make any
return required by this chapter; fail, neglect or refuse to secure or pay a
license fee; fail to withhold the license fees or pay over to the city the
license fees, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter or withholds
license fees but fails to pay them over to the City Clerk-Treasurer; refuse to
permit the City Clerk-Treasurer or any agent or employee designated by him or
her in writing, to examine the books, records and papers for the purposes set
forth herein; knowingly make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return; or
attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the full disclosure of the amount of
gross receipts or compensation in order to avoid the payment of the whole or
any part of a license fee.
(Prior Code, § 113.11) (Ord. 541, passed 9-1-1992) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
113.11 of this code shall be punishable by fines of from $100 to $500 per
offense.
CHAPTER 114: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
114.01   Imposition of license fee
   
114.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
114.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
114.04   Due date; interest
   
114.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 114.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each insurance company a license fee for the
privilege of engaging in the business of insurance within the corporate limits
of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
(Prior Code, § 114.01)
§ 114.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be      of the first year’s premiums actually collected
within each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
(Prior Code, § 114.02)
§ 114.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be      of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act, being
KRS Chapter 342 and shall not include premiums received on policies of group
health insurance provided for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228
or, premiums received by any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to
KRS Chapter 18A for the purpose of providing health benefits to state
employees.
(Prior Code, § 114.03)
§ 114.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
(Prior Code, § 114.04)
§ 114.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty;
   (B)   Automobile;
   (C)   Inland marine;
   (D)   Fire and allied perils;
   (E)   Health; and
   (F)   Life.
(Prior Code, § 114.05)
CHAPTER 115: FINANCIAL INSTITUTION FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
Section
   
115.01   Imposition of tax
   
115.02   Tax due
   
115.03   Lien
   
115.04   Use of tax
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on all “financial institutions,” as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city, for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136 and including KRS 136.500(10),
maintained by such institutions.
(Prior Code, § 115.01) (Ord. 593, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 115.02 TAX DUE.
   (A)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established.
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than May 1, 1997.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by May 31, 1997,
or without the discount by June 30, 1997.
   (B)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established.
      (1)   The city will issue tax bills to financial institutions no later
than December 1 of each year.
      (2)   Payment of the tax shall be due with a 2% discount by December 31
of each year, or without the discount by January 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 115.02) (Ord. 593, passed 9-3-1996) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 LIEN.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes upon any and all property subject to
the tax imposed by these sections, which lien shall be superior to all
encumbrances prior or subsequent.
(Prior Code, § 115.03) (Ord. 593, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 115.04 USE OF TAX.
   All moneys collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 115.04) (Ord. 593, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   All taxes due in accordance with this chapter which are not paid before June
30, 1997, for tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January 31 for all
subsequent years, tax years shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to
a penalty of 6% and shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum.
(Prior Code, § 115.99) (Ord. 593, passed 9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 116: PERSONAL SALES
Section
   
116.01   Yard sales
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 YARD SALES.
   (A)   Conditions of yard sales. No person shall conduct, advertise or
promote any sale regulated by this section.
      (1)   No signs advertising a sale regulated by this section shall be
placed on public property or on private property without consent of the owner.
Within 24 hours after the conclusion of a sale, all signs shall be removed.
      (2)   Each location/property is limited to two different yard sales per
year, lasting no more than three consecutive days. There shall be no
occupational license issued for the purpose of having more than two yard sales
per year.
      (3)   All yard sales shall be on the owner’s property, and only the
property owner or tenant shall conduct a yard sale on that property. Multi-
family sales will be permitted.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Non-profit organizations/clubs shall be exempt from this section.
      (2)   The U.S. Route 127 yard sale shall be exempt from this section.
(Ord. 734, passed 11-5-2013) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any violations of §
116.01 of this code shall be deemed a misdemeanor and fined no less than $50
and no more than $250.
(Ord. 734, passed 11-5-2013)
CHAPTER 117: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Licensing
   
117.01   Purpose
   
117.02   Application review
   
117.03   Issuance and renewal of licenses
   
117.04   Operational regulations
   
117.05   Violations
   
117.06   Regulatory license fee
Mandatory Responsible Beverage Server Training
   
117.20   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
   
117.21   Licenses
   
117.22   Required information and signage
   
117.23   Seller/server training agency
Microbreweries
   
117.40   Exceptions
   
117.41   License
 
   
117.99   Penalty
LICENSING
§ 117.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The ordinance codified in this subchapter is adopted to regulate
the sale of alcohol pursuant to KRS 242.185 as amended and substituted by KRS
Chapter 243 et seq. and/or KRS 243.034 in such a manner as to effectuate the
legislative intent of that statute.
      (2)   The intent is to permit the sale of alcoholic beverages by the
drink at restaurants and dining facilities which seat at least 100 persons and
derive a minimum of 70% of their gross receipts from the sale of food.
   (B)   To realize this intent, the city shall implement this subchapter in
such manner as to assure that:
      (1)   Restaurants and dining facilities licensed under this subchapter
shall seat a minimum of 100 persons. Only permanent seating, excluding bar-type
stools, patio seating or temporary chairs available as needed, satisfies this
seating threshold;
      (2)   The sale of alcoholic beverages shall be accessory to the sale of
food, offered only during times in which the licensee’s kitchen and food
service staff is on duty; and
      (3)   Restaurants and dining facilities licensed under this subchapter
shall derive a minimum of 70% of their gross receipts from the sale of food as
certified by periodic documentation.
(Ord. 747, passed 3-3-2015; Ord. 783, passed 8-17-2023)
§ 117.02 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   No alcoholic beverage shall be sold in the city, except as authorized
under KRS 242.185 as amended and substituted by KRS Chapter 243 et seq. and/or
KRS 243.034 and this subchapter. Authorization under this subchapter shall be
obtained only upon the city’s receipt and approval of an application in
accordance with this subchapter, the city’s issuance of a license, the ABC’s
receipt and approval of an application in accordance with applicable law and
the ABC’s issuance of a license.
   (B)   Application submittal and review shall be conducted as follow:
      (1)   Application and fee.
         (a)   Persons requesting approval and license authorizing the sale of
alcoholic beverages by the drink pursuant to KRS 242.185 as amended and
substituted by KRS Chapter 243 et seq. and/or KRS 243.034 and this subchapter
shall submit a completed application to be obtained from the office of Mayor.
The office of Mayor shall determine the form of this application and the
information required by it. That form and information shall be reasonably
calculated to permit a reviewing officer to determine compliance with this
subchapter. In any event, the city shall accept an application in the form
approved and accepted by the Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC). Any applicant
utilizing the ABC form shall provide any additional information not otherwise
required by the ABC form by supplemental attachment to the application.
         (b)   Applicants for a license under this subchapter shall pay a
license fee of $1,200, pursuant to the provisions of KRS 243.070.
         (c)   In order to sell liquor by the drink on Sunday between the hours
of 1:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. Sunday evening, the licensee must apply for and
obtain from the city a limited Sunday drink license. The license fee for the
limited Sunday drink licenses shall be $200 as authorized under KRS 243.070(1)
(k).
      (2)   Supplemental information. An applicant currently operating a
restaurant or dining facility of comparable size to that which is the subject
of the application and one that offers the sale of alcoholic beverages by the
drink shall supplement the required application. The required supplemental data
shall include information related to its current operation, which reasonably
demonstrates the likelihood that the applicant’s business in the city will
yield income earned through the sale of food equal to or greater than 70% of
its gross receipts. This supplement data shall include, but not necessarily be
limited to, the following specific information:
         (a)   The population of the community in which it currently operates;
         (b)   Alcohol sales permitted in the community in which it currently
operates; and
         (c)   The hours of operation, including any differentiation between
the hours during which food and drinks are sold.
      (3)   Periodic information.
         (a)   Applicants to whom a license is issued authorizing the sale of
alcoholic beverages by the drink pursuant to this subchapter shall provide
periodic information demonstrating compliance with the continuing requirement
that 70% of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sale of food.
         (b)   This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be
coordinated with the applicant’s quarterly tax filings. Regardless of the
applicant’s filing schedule, the first of the applicant’s periodic information
shall be submitted not later than six months after applicant commenced sale of
alcoholic beverages pursuant to this subchapter.
         (c)   This information shall consist of a certificate from a certified
public accountant familiar with the applicant’s pertinent business records.
This certificate shall state:
 
I have conducted a limited scope audit according to accepted accounting principles of the
pertinent records of                      , licensee under Ordinance 747           , and certify
that the licensee earned at least 70% of its gross receipts from the sale of food during the
quarter ending            .
 
         (d)   This certificate shall include a brief description of the
methodology utilized in the determination of the certified percentage.
      (4)   Administrating officer. The city officer responsible for
administering this subchapter shall be the City Clerk or such city employee as
the Mayor shall designate. All transactions required for compliance or
enforcement of this subchapter shall be directed to or issued by the Mayor and/
or the City Clerk. He or she shall review the applications along with
supplemental and periodic information and issue licenses authorizing the sale
of alcoholic beverages by the drink pursuant to this subchapter. The city’s
administrating officer and employees with duties arising under this subchapter
shall comply with KRS 241.180 and 241.190.
      (5)   Forms. All forms reasonably necessary for the implementation of
this subchapter shall be provided by the Mayor’s office.
      (6)   Auditing authority.
         (a)   The Mayor and the city’s administrating officer is empowered to
demand access to the pertinent business records of any applicant or licensee
for the purpose of conducting an independent audit of those records to
substantiate compliance with this subchapter.
         (b)   The Mayor and the city’s administrating officer may obtain such
outside professional services as are reasonably necessary to conduct the audit.
In the event the independent audit reveals noncompliance by the applicant or
licensee, the cost of the audit shall be assessed to the licensee.
(Ord. 747, passed 3-3-2015; Ord. 783, passed 8-17-2023)
§ 117.03 ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Issuance. Upon satisfactory compliance with all city-imposed
requirements, the city’s administrating officer shall sign an acknowledgment of
that compliance. The ABC shall rely upon that acknowledgment and upon review of
the application to the ABC, shall issue an appropriate license. Upon
presentation of the ABC-issued license, the city’s administrating officer shall
issue the city’s license.
   (B)   Renewal.
      (1)   A license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall authorize the
sale of alcoholic beverages for one year.
      (2)   The license may be renewed annually thereafter upon a showing of
compliance with applicable regulations and the payment of a renewal fee of
$1,200.
   (C)   Transfer and assignment. No license issued under this subchapter shall
be transferred, sold or assigned, as to licensee or location.
(Ord. 747, passed 3-3-2015; Ord. 783, passed 8-17-2023)
§ 117.04 OPERATIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Hours. No licensee operating pursuant to this subchapter shall be open
for business earlier than 6:00 a.m. or later than 12:00 midnight, Monday
through Thursday. Friday and Saturday license operating hours pursuant to this
subchapter shall be 6:00 a.m. and no later than 1:00 a.m. Sunday license
operating hours pursuant to this subchapter shall be no earlier than 1:00 p.m.
and no later than 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Sales permitted only when food available. The provisions of division
(A) above notwithstanding, no licensee operating pursuant to this subchapter
shall sell alcoholic beverages at any time at which the licensee’s kitchen and
food service staffs are off-duty. This requirement is necessary for
accomplishment of the legislative intent stated in §
117.01 of this code and in KRS 242.185 as amended and substituted by KRS
Chapter 243 et seq. and/or KRS 243.034. No carry-out alcohol sales shall be
permitted and no alcohol shall be taken off the premises.
(Ord. 747, passed 3-3-2015; Ord. 783, passed 8-17-2023) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Show cause hearing. Hearings on alleged violations shall be in the
manner of a “show cause” hearing at which the licensee shall bear the burden of
persuasion that the alleged violation did not occur. The licensee shall be
afforded the right to:
      (1)   Reasonable notice of the charge;
      (2)   Representation;
      (3)   Presentation of such evidence and witnesses as in its discretion
are appropriate to the issue; and
      (4)   A finding reasonably supported by the evidence.
   (B)   Hearing officer. Pursuant to §
117.02(B)(4) above, the city’s administrating officer may designate a city
employee or other person as the hearing officer to conduct the hearing provided
for in this section. In the event of such a designation, the hearing officer’s
determination shall be in the form of a recommendation upon which the city’s
administrating officer shall determine appropriate action.
   (C)   Appeal. Pursuant to KRS 241.200, all orders of the city’s
administrating officer may be appealed to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
   (D)   Referral to ABC. In lieu of the hearing authority provided above,
allegations of violations of this subchapter may be referred to the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Board for determination.
(Ord. 747, passed 3-3-2015; Ord. 783, passed 8-17-2023)
§ 117.06 REGULATORY LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Purpose. This subchapter is adopted to impose a regulatory license fee
upon each permitted establishment’s sale of alcoholic beverages. The intent is
to permit the collection of this regulatory fee is to reimburse the city for
policing, regulatory or administrative costs related to sale of alcoholic
beverages.
      (1)   The license holder shall pay this fee.
      (2)   The city will use such fee for any and all costs incurred for
regulating and policing alcohol use in the city and municipal aid calls.
      (3)   The City Council shall adopt at the budget adoption for each
subsequent fiscal year, such annual rate for the regulatory license fee. Should
the city fail to address the regulatory license fee in any budget, then the
regulatory license fee shall remain at the level at which it was last fixed
until such time as the City Council shall adjust the fee.
   (B)   Collection of regulatory license fee.
      (1)   Payment of such regulatory fee shall be remitted to the city ABC
Administrator and shall be held in a separate account maintained for the
purpose of fully reimbursing the city for the estimated costs of any additional
policing, regulatory or administrative expense related to the sale of alcoholic
beverages in the city. The regulatory license fee shall be in addition to any
other taxes, fees or license permitted by law, except that a credit against a
regulatory license fee in the city shall be allowed in an amount equal to any
license fee imposed by the city, pursuant to KRS 243.070. Payment of the
regulatory license fee shall accompany the tax return approved for such use by
the city. The return and payment are due no later than by the end of the month
immediately following each calendar quarter.
      (2)   Failure to pay such quarterly remittance within 15 days of the due
date constitutes a violation and subjects the licensee to suspension or
revocation.
(Ord. 772, passed 5-12-2022) Penalty, see §
117.99
MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVER TRAINING
§ 117.20 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages shall
participate in a city-approved, responsible beverage service training program.
For a responsible beverage service training program to be approved by the city,
it must effectively train its participants in the identification of false age
documentation and recognition of characteristics of intoxication. The city will
not require enrollment in particular classes, but only that the training be
obtained from a recognized program meeting the goals expressed in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 748, passed 3-3-2015)
§ 117.21 LICENSES.
   (A)   All persons employed by a person or entity licensed under §§
117.01 through
117.06 of this code for the sale of alcoholic beverages, whose job duties
include the sale or service of alcoholic beverages or the management of
premises on which alcoholic beverages are served, shall complete responsible
beverage service training from a program approved by the city.
   (B)   All persons licensed under §§
117.01 through
117.06 for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall complete responsible beverage
service training from a program approved by the city.
   (C)   All entities licensed under §§
117.01 through
117.06 for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall designate a person who, on
behalf of the entity, shall complete responsible beverage service training from
a program approved by the city. The person designated must have the authority
to implement or amend the licensee’s on-premises practices for selling and
serving alcohol.
   (D)   All persons required to complete training under divisions (A), (B) and
(C) above shall complete that training within 45 days of the date on which the
person first becomes subject to the training requirement. All persons
completing the training required by this section shall be recertified in
responsible beverage service training from a program approved by the city not
less than once every three years thereafter.
   (E)   All persons or entities licensed under §§
117.01 through
117.06 for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall require all their employees
who are engaged in the selling or serving of alcoholic beverages or the
managing of premises on which such sales are offered to complete a city-
approved responsible beverage service training class according to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 748, passed 3-3-2015)
§ 117.22 REQUIRED INFORMATION AND SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Driver’s license guide and compilation of laws. The licensee shall
maintain the following information on the premises, in a location accessible at
all times to all employees of the licensed establishment:
      (1)   A current driver’s license guide, which shall include license
specifications for both adults and minors for each state (including Canadian
provinces), and shall list such information from at least five years prior to
the present date; and
      (2)   A current compilation of the laws relating to the sale and
possession of alcoholic beverages in the state. This compilation must also
include §§
117.01 through
117.06 of this code.
   (B)   Signage. The licensee shall maintain on the premises, in all customer
areas, current signage related to underage consumption of alcoholic beverages
and to driving under the influence of alcohol. One sign must be located behind
the counter/bar and one sign must be present in each additional room or section
within the restaurant area in which the writing on the sign behind the counter/
bar is not clearly legible. The sign(s) must have dimensions of at least one
foot by one foot with letters at least one-half inch in height. All signs must
be comfortably readable from a distance of 15 feet. Any signs required by this
subchapter for which there are comparable ABC requirements shall be maintained
in conformity with state ABC regulations.
   (C)   Personnel certification records. Each licensee shall maintain a file
on its business premises for each person connected with its business for whom
training is required under this subchapter. That file shall contain the name,
job description, date of employment and proof of certification pursuant to this
subchapter of each employee, officer and agent subject to the training
requirement provided in this subchapter. During business hours, this file shall
be available to the person or persons designated by the Mayor’s office with
responsibility for enforcement of this subchapter and §§
117.01 through
117.06 of this code, related to the licensing of premises for the sale of
alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 748, passed 3-3-2015) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.23 SELLER/SERVER TRAINING AGENCY.
   (A)   Training required. Licensees and servers shall participate in a
training program with an approved responsible beverage service training agency,
selected and approved by the city.
   (B)   Compensation. The approved training agencies shall not be compensated
or otherwise reimbursed by the city. The training agencies shall recover costs
and profit through fees collected from the persons receiving the training.
   (C)   Training.
      (1)   The approved training agencies shall certify the qualifications of
all required participants as required by this subchapter. All new employees,
officers or agents shall complete the training with 60 days following their
hiring or other event which subjects that person to the training requirement.
      (2)   New employees, officers or agents failing to complete the training
within the prescribed time shall not work on the premises after the expiration
of that period until they have successfully completed such training.
   (D)   Standards for certification. The training agency must reasonably
instruct upon and certify the participants’ competence in at least the
following:
      (1)   Pertinent laws and ordinances related to the sale of alcohol;
      (2)   Verification of age, forms of identification and usual methods of
false or misleading age identification;
      (3)   The effect of alcohol on humans and the physiology of alcohol
intoxication, including the effect of alcohol on pregnant women, their fetuses
and other situations involving the use of alcohol by persons vulnerable to its
effects;
      (4)   Recognition of the signs of intoxication;
      (5)   Strategies for intervention and prevention of underage and
intoxicated persons from consuming alcohol;
      (6)   The licensee’s policies and guidelines, including the employee’s
role in observing those policies; and
      (7)   Potential liability of persons serving alcohol.
   (E)   Qualifications for training agencies. The training agency shall have a
minimum of two years actual experience in responsible beverage service and
alcohol awareness training. Each instructor shall be certified to teach his or
her subject matter.
   (F)   Personnel and physical resources. The training agencies shall have
sufficient personnel and physical resources to provide responsible beverage
service training course to newly hired employees, officers and agents as
required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 748, passed 3-3-2015)
MICROBREWERIES
§ 117.40 EXCEPTIONS.
   Microbreweries shall be regulated under this chapter and KRS 243.157 with
the following statements and exceptions:
   (A)   The city is not a wet territory but considered a “moist" precinct; and
   (B)   Microbreweries can only operate under those sections of KRS 243.157
which do not conflict with those regulations, statements and purposes of this
chapter;
   (C)   Microbreweries shall be established only in areas zoned as “industrial
zones;"
   (D)   Other malt beverage licenses offered:
      (1)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license; and
      (2)   Nonquota Type 4 malt beverage drink license.
(Ord. 795, passed 1-3-2025; Ord. 798, passed 5-8-2025)
§ 117.41 LICENSE.
   (A)   Microbrewery license shall be $500 per annum.
   (B)   Business license shall be $500 per annum (required).
   (C)   Nonquota retail malt beverage package license shall be $200 per annum
(optional).
   (D)   Nonquota Type 4 malt beverage drink license shall be $200 per annum
(optional).
   (E)   Sunday sales license shall be $200 per annum (optional).
(Ord. 795, passed 1-3-2025; Ord. 798, passed 5-8-2025)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
    (B)   (1)   Violations of §
117.01 through
117.06 of this code shall be punishable by fine of up to $1,500 for each
offense. Complaints alleging violations of §§
117.01 through
117.06 of this code may be filed in the Owen District Court and prosecuted as
all other municipal ordinance violations. Each day of each violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Violations of §
117.01 through
117.06 of this code shall constitute grounds for administrative action by the
city’s administrating officer. Appropriate actions by the administrating
officer upon the determination of a violation shall include a warning and
probationary period in which the violation is corrected, a license suspension
or license revocation. Suspensions may be satisfied by the payment of a fine of
$50 per day. The action of the administrating officer shall be commensurate
with the seriousness of the violation. Upon a finding of a subsequent material
violation, the license may be suspended for such time as is commensurate with
the seriousness of the offenses or, if previously suspended, revoked.
Subsequent suspensions may be satisfied by the payment of a fine of $50 per day
for no more than one-half of the suspension.
      (3)   Penalty for failure to file a return and pay remittance by due date
(s) is 12% and a $50 fine for the first offense, $100 fine for the second
offense and a $200 fine for a third offense.
   (C)   (1)   Consistent with the provisions of §
117.20 through
117.23 of this code, the Mayor, or his or her designee, is charged with primary
responsibility for enforcement.
      (2)   Penalties for violation of §
117.20 through
117.23 of this code shall be assessed against the person or entity holding a
license for the sale of alcoholic beverage under §
117.20 through
117.23 of this code. The individual employee shall not be civilly or criminally
liable for violations of §
117.20 through
117.23 of this code. The penalties assessed against the licensee for violations
are as follows:
         (a)   For the first violation, a fine not exceeding $50;
         (b)   For subsequent violations, within a two-year period, a fine not
exceeding $500 and suspension of the licensee’s city liquor license for not
less than, three days nor more than 30 days. The licensee may redeem the days
of that suspension for the payment of $500 each; and
         (c)   Each day of each violation shall constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. 747, passed 3-3-2015; Ord. 748, passed 3-3-2015; Ord. 772, passed 5-12-
2022; Ord. 783, passed 8-17-2023; Ord. 784, passed 8-17-2023)
CHAPTER 118: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
118.01   Purpose; findings
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   Classification
   
118.04   General restrictions, requirements, and conditions
   
118.05   Exhibition of sexually explicit films, videos, or live entertainment
in viewing rooms
   
118.06   Inspection
   
118.07   Regulations pertaining to live performances
   
118.08   Record-keeping requirements
   
118.09   Establishment licenses
   
118.10   Employee license
   
118.11   Registration, photographing and fingerprinting of sexually oriented
business employees
   
118.12   Sexually oriented business establishment premises to furnish a clear
view
   
118.13   Restrictions on advertisement
   
118.14   Location of sexually oriented business
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 PURPOSE; FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses in order to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
relating to sexually oriented businesses.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect
of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials.
      (3)   Similarly, it is not the intent or effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (B)   Findings. Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects
of adult uses on the community presented in reports made available, and on
findings incorporated in the cases of City of Rattan v. Play Time Theaters,
Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986), Young vs. American Mini Theaters, 426 U.S. 50 (1976),
FW/PBS, Inc. v. City of Dallas, 493 U S. 215 (1990), Barnes v. Glen Theater,
Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991), City of Erie v. Pap’s A.M., 120 S.Ct. 1382 (2000);
and on studies in other communities including, but not limited to: Dallas,
Texas; Town and Village of Ellicottville, New York; St. Mary’s, Georgia;
Phoenix, Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; Indianapolis,
Indiana; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California; Los Angeles, California;
Whittier, California; Austin, Texas; Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City,
Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont, Texas; and also on findings from the
report of the Attorney General’s Working Group on the regulation of sexually
oriented businesses, (June 6,1989, State of Minnesota), the City Commission
finds the following:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of
the establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners
of these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises.
      (2)   Certain employees of sexually oriented business defined in this
chapter as adult theaters and cabarets engage in higher incidents of certain
types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments.
      (3)   Sexual acts occur at sexually oriented businesses, especially those
which provide private or semi- private booths or cubicals for viewing films,
videos or live sex shows.
      (4)   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities which
creates unhealthy conditions.
      (5)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses.
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, non-A, non-B amebiasis, salmonella infections and shigella
infections.
      (7)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been an increasing
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States. Through December 31,1997,
there have been 619,690 reported cases of AIDS in the United States.
      (8)   As of December 31, 2003, there have been 4,071 reported cases of
AIDS in the Commonwealth of Kentucky, according to the Kentucky HIV/AIDS Semi-
Annual Report obtained through the Kentucky Cabinet for Health Services,
Department for Public Health.
      (9)   The Surgeon General of the United States, in his report of October
22,1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, exposure in
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
      (10)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
      (11)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities.
      (12)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found
in the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view adult oriented
films.
      (13)   The findings noted in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(12) above raise
substantial governmental concerns.
      (14)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics
which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
      (15)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest in
curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult theaters.
      (16)   The general welfare, health, and safety of the citizens of the
city will be promoted by the enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT AMUSEMENT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin operated, slug operated or for any form of consideration,
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, video or laser disk players, or other image producing
devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment which, as one of its principal purposes,
offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use
in connection with specified sexual activities.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and still be characterized as ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or
ADULT VIDEO STORE. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
commercial establishments from being categorized as an ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT
NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. A night club, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nude; or
      (2)   Live performance which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. Any use or building or portion thereof which
contains or is used for commercial entertainment where the patron gives or
takes any form of consideration to engage in personal contact with or to allow
personal contact by employees, devices or equipment or by personnel provided by
the establishment or to view a series of dance routines, strip performances or
other choreography provided by the establishment which appeals to the prurient
interest of the patron including, but not limited to, bath houses, massage
parlors and related or similar activities.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way
which advertises the availability of this adult-type photographic
reproductions; or
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
then ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
dominant depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT STAGE SHOW THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or semi-nude, or live performances which are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   CITY or CITY OF OWENTON. The City of Owenton, Kentucky.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Owenton, Kentucky or his or her
designee.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full time, part time, or contract basis, whether or not
the person is denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or
otherwise and whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of the business. EMPLOYEE does not include a
person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or
equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods on the premises.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides sexually oriented entertainment in a
sexually oriented business, whether or not an employee of the business and
whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for such entertainment.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any sexually oriented business, whether existing or opening
of such business; the conversion of an existing business, whether or not a
sexually oriented business to any sexually oriented business; the additions of
any sexually oriented businesses to any other sexually oriented business; or
the relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSED MASSAGE THERAPIST. Any person who has graduated from a 500-hour
massage therapy school, accredited by a state licensure board or its equivalent
and who possesses a valid state license from any state which regulates the same
by means of a written examination; or may include a nurse, physician,
occupational therapist, physical therapist, podiatrist or chiropractor.
   MANAGER. Any person who manages, directs, administers or is in charge of,
the affairs and/or the conduct of a sexually oriented business.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. An establishment providing massages, for hire, by persons
other than a licensed health care professional, including, but not limited to,
those activities that rub, stroke, knead or tap the body with the hand or any
other instrument, or both, for the purpose of or engaging in sexual
gratification or as related to specified sexual activities. This definition
also includes those activities listed within the definition of sexual encounter
center. This does not include any licensed or sanctioned athletic activity that
generally employs or uses the services of a physical trainer and/or those
listed in the definition of “licensed massage therapist.”
   NUDE, NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a
fully opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   REGULARLY. A consistent or substantial course of conduct, such that the
sexually explicit films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing
businesses of the sexually oriented business.
   SEMI-NUDE or in a SEMI-NUDE CONDITION. The showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areolae at its highest point or
the showing of the male or female buttocks. This definition shall include the
entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not include any
portion of the cleavage of the human female breast, exhibited by a dress,
blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing apparel provided the
areolae is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Depiction of human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation, acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy, holding
or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or breasts.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration
activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same sex when
one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult amusement arcade, adult book store,
adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult
motion picture theater, adult stage theater, escort agency or sexual encounter
center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The following areas on a human body that are
less than completely and opaquely covered:
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy;
      (3)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
      (4)   Acts of human analigus, bestiality, buggery, cunnilingus,
coprophagy, coprophilia, fellation, flagellation, masochism, necrophilia,
pederasty, pedophilia, sadism, sadomasochism; or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (5) above.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 118.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult amusement arcades;
   (B)   Adult book stores, adult novelty stores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult entertainment centers;
   (E)   Adult motels;
   (F)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (G)   Adult stage show theaters;
   (H)   Escort agencies;
   (I)   Massage parlors; or
   (J)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023)
§ 118.04 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS, REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS.
   All sexually oriented businesses classified under §
118.03 shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by laws which may be more restrictive, no
owner or operator of an establishment shall knowingly permit a person under 18
years of age to be employed by or enter the establishment.
   (B)   An establishment must have an employee on duty at all times in which
the business is open and must be positioned at a station in the premises which
is located in such a manner that the entrance can be monitored at all times.
Any person who reasonably appears to be under the age of 18 shall be requested
to verify his or her age. All persons under the age of 18 discovered in the
establishment shall be immediately escorted out of the premises.
   (C)   No establishment, except for an adult motel, shall remain open at any
time between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday.
Further, no establishment, except for an adult motel, shall be open on Sunday
or any holiday legally recognized by the Commonwealth.
   (D)   No act of specified sexual activities including, but not limited to,
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or sexual contact
shall be permitted in or on the licensed premises of any sexually oriented
business, except legal sexual activity permitted by the laws of the
Commonwealth in an adult motel. No owner, operator, licensee or employee of a
sexually oriented business shall knowingly permit these activities to occur on
the licensed premises.
   (E)   All sexually oriented businesses in operation in the city on the
effective date of this chapter shall comply with the terms and conditions
hereof within 120 days after the effective date of this chapter; provided,
however, that any sexually oriented business in operation in the city on the
effective date of this chapter shall, to the extent not in compliance with §
118.14, be deemed a nonconforming use.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS, VIDEOS OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT IN
VIEWING ROOMS.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, live
entertainment, or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical area, shall comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Any wall or partition which is situated so as to create a viewing area
in which any amusement device or viewing screen is located shall be constructed
of not less than one-hour fire-restrictive material and shall contain no hole
or other perforation.
   (B)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there shall be an unobstructed view from a manager’s or cashier’s station of
every area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose excluding restrooms. The view required in this division (B) must be by
direct line of sight from the manager’s or cashier’s station. No manager’s or
cashier’s station shall exceed a size or area of 32 square feet.
   (C)   No viewing room or booth shall be obstructed by any doors, curtains,
partitions, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials. No patron
shall be permitted access to any area of the premises which has been designated
as an area to which patrons are not permitted.
   (D)   No viewing room or booth shall be occupied by more than one person at
any time. No owner, operator or employee shall knowingly permit any viewing
room or booth to be occupied by more than one person at any time.
   (E)   No restroom shall contain any video reproduction devices or equipment.
   (F)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than ten foot candles as measured at
floor level.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the owner, operator or employee to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron or
customer is present in the premises.
   (H)   No owner, operator or employee shall allow openings of any kind to
exist between viewing rooms or booths.
   (I)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind between
viewing booths or rooms.
   (J)   The owner, operator and/or employees shall, during each business day,
cause the walls between the viewing booths to be regularly inspected to
determine if any openings or holes exist.
   (K)   All floor coverings in viewing rooms or booths shall be non-porous,
easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
   (L)   There must be at least one employee on duty and situated at the
manager’s station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.06 INSPECTION.
   All sexually oriented businesses shall, upon initial licensure or renewal of
licensure, permit representatives of the city, including representatives of the
city Police Department, Fire Department or other city departments or agencies
to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the law.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.07 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO LIVE PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a patron, employee, or any
other person to knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented business,
appear in a state of nudity, regardless of whether such public nudity is
expressive in nature.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to knowingly or
intentionally in a sexually oriented business appear in a semi-nude condition
unless the person is an employee who, while semi-nude, shall be at least ten
feet from any patron or customer and on a stage at least 18 inches from the
floor.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any employee, while semi-
nude in a sexually oriented business, to knowingly or intentionally receive any
pay or gratuity directly from any patron or customer or for any patron or
customer to knowingly or intentionally pay or give any gratuity directly to any
employee, while said employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any employee, while semi-
nude, to knowingly or intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a
customer.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any manager of a sexually
oriented business to knowingly or negligently allow an employee of the business
to violate these regulations. It shall be a defense to prosecution that the
manager was powerless to prevent the violation.
   (F)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this
chapter, an act by an employee shall be imputed to the sexually oriented
business manager for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter only if
the manager knowingly or negligently allowed such act to occur on the premises.
It shall be a defense to prosecution that the manager was powerless to prevent
the act. A sign in a form to be prescribed by the City Counsel and summarizing
the provisions of divisions (A) through (D) above, shall be posted near the
entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a manner as to be clearly
visible to patrons upon entry.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.08 RECORD-KEEPING REQUIREMENTS.
   Each sexually oriented business shall maintain and retain for a period of
two years beyond the last date of employment, the full name, date of birth,
last known address, date of termination and social security number of all
persons employed by the sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.09 ESTABLISHMENT LICENSES.
   (A)   General requirements. No person shall own or operate a sexually
oriented business establishment as defined hereinabove without a sexually
oriented business license. No person shall own or operate an unlicensed
sexually oriented business establishment.
   (B)   Application process. The owner of a sexually oriented business
establishment shall apply for a license with the City Clerk. The applicant
shall complete an application on the form prescribed by the city and shall
submit the following information:
      (1)   The name and business address of the establishment, including any
assumed or fictitious names under which the establishment is or will be
operated;
      (2)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, social security or tax identification number, date of birth
(including proof of date of birth through a valid birth certificate, driver’s
license or other picture identification document issued by a governmental
agency) of the owner and every officer, partner, director or person performing
a similar function to an officer, partner or director and the names and
addresses of any individual who owns 10% or more of the partnership,
corporation, limited liability corporation or company, or limited liability
partnership that is the owner of the establishment;
      (3)   In the event the owner of the sexually oriented business
establishment is not the owner of record of the real property on which the
establishment is located or to be located, the application shall include a
notarized statement from the owner of record of the real property acknowledging
that a sexually oriented business establishment is located or to be located on
the real property upon the issuance of the license. The applicant also shall
furnish the name and address of the owner of record of the real property and a
copy of the lease or rental agreement or memorandum thereof;
      (4)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, date of birth, social security number and photograph of all
persons engaged in the day to day management of the licensed premises. All
persons who at any time shall be responsible for attending the entrance of the
establishment for the purpose of compliance with this chapter shall be included
in this division (B)(4);
      (5)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, date of birth, social security number and photograph of the
individual designated by the applicant to undertake to keep the applicant, if
licensed, at all times in compliance with the restrictions, requirements and
conditions set forth in this chapter, together with the written statement of
the individual stating that he has received a copy of this chapter and that he
or she willfully undertakes on behalf of the applicant to comply therewith;
      (6)   The name, including any assumed or fictitious name or alias,
business address, date of birth, social security number and photograph of the
individual designated by the applicant to be responsible for keeping current
the information required hereunder at all times together with a written
statement stating that he or she has received a copy of this chapter and that
he or she willfully undertakes on behalf of the applicant the duty to comply
with the requirements therein pertaining to the disclosure of information;
      (7)   The name and address of any rental agent of the property on which
the establishment is located;
      (8)   The nature of the activity or activities to be engaged in at such
location;
      (9)   A criminal record report for the applicants, owners, officers,
directors, partners, employees or other persons whose names are required
pursuant to this section together with a list of all criminal convictions of
such persons within the last five years for the offenses listed in this
chapter. Any person who is on parole shall submit with the application the
terms of the parole;
      (10)   The name and mailing address of the owner to whom notice will be
given in case of violations or other matters affecting the license hereunder;
      (11)   Applicant must submit to fingerprinting by the city Police
Department;
      (12)   Applicant cannot owe any fees or taxes of any kind or nature to
the city;
      (13)   Applicant’s premises must meet all established zoning, fire,
building and/or plumbing codes and cannot provide direct interior access to
residential living quarters; and
      (14)   Applicant shall file a floor plan exhibiting all entrances, exits,
stairways and all rooms in the building and their intended use for purposes of
providing emergency services.
   (C)   Supplemental information. The information required by division (B)
above shall be at all times current even after the granting of the sexually
oriented business license. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or other
person designated in the licensee’s application to notify the City Clerk in
writing no later than 48 hours after the effective date of any change,
alteration or modification in any information contained in the application.
   (D)   Review process. The City Clerk or the city’s designated agent shall
inspect the premises within 20 days after the application has been submitted.
The City Clerk shall issue a license if all restrictions, requirements,
conditions and all applicable requirements of this chapter have been met
pursuant to the time limits set forth in this chapter. The City Clerk shall
grant or deny a license application within 25 days of the filing of such
application.
   (E)   Prohibitions. No sexually oriented business establishment license
shall be issued if the applicant or any operator, officer, director, partner or
shareholder:
      (1)   Is less than 18 years of age;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any of the following offenses within the last
five years:
         (a)   Gambling, conspiracy to promote gambling, or possession of
gambling records or gambling devices;
         (b)   Prostitution, promoting prost- itution, permitting prostitution,
solicitation for the purpose of prostitution or loitering for the purpose of
prostitution;
         (c)   The sale, transfer, possession or use of any controlled
substance;
         (d)   Sexual offenses including rape, sodomy, sexual abuse, sexual
misconduct and indecent exposure;
         (e)   Distribution of obscene material to a minor, use of a minor to
produce, promote or distribute obscene material, advertising obscene materials,
promoting the sale of obscenity;
         (f)   Unlawful transaction with a minor (as defined in KRS Chapter 530
or other similar laws), use of a minor in a sexual performance, promoting a
sexual performance by a minor, or possession of or advertising matter
portraying a sexual performance by a minor; or
         (g)   Murder, manslaughter or felony assault (as defined in KRS
Chapters 507 or 508 or similar laws).
      (3)   Has failed in the operation of a sexually oriented business to
comply with any health, zoning, fire or building code enacted or adopted by the
city and has failed to correct such violation as provided in this chapter;
      (4)   The license application fee has not been paid;
      (5)   An applicant has failed to fully and completely and/or falsely
answer(s) a question or request for information on the license form;
      (6)   The proposed sexually oriented business is located in a zoning
district other than a district in which sexually oriented businesses are
allowed to operate under the ordinance adopting the zoning regulations of the
city and the county, as amended from time to time, or is not in compliance with
the location restrictions established for sexually oriented businesses in the
appropriate zoning district; and
      (7)   If the business is a corporation or other entity which is required
to be registered in the office of the Secretary of State, the representatives
of the business entity must show documentary evidence that said business entity
is authorized to do business in the Commonwealth.
   (F)   Notice. If the City Clerk’s inspection reveals a failure to comply
with any provisions of this code, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant in
writing of that fact, stating what failures have been discovered, allowing a
reasonable time to correct such defects and informing the applicant of the
appeal procedure if the applicant does not agree with the City Clerk’s decision
or finding.
   (G)   No transfer of license.
      (1)   The sexually oriented business establishment license issued under
this section does not authorize the operation of a sexually oriented business
establishment at any place other than the address designated in the application
and such license is not transferable.
      (2)   A transfer is deemed to occur when the business is sold, leased or
subleased; when securities which constitute a controlling interest in the
business are sold or otherwise exchanged; or a trust, gift or other similar
legal device is established which transfers the ownership or control of the
business, except for a transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the
death of the natural person possessing the ownership or control of the
business.
   (H)   Access to license premises. The application for or the granting of a
sexually oriented business license is deemed to permit periodic inspections by
law enforcement officers, or other persons designated or authorized by the City
Clerk, of all areas of any establishment requiring a license under this chapter
for the purpose of verifying compliance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter. It shall be unlawful for an applicant, licensee, owner or operator of
a sexually oriented business to refuse to permit a law enforcement officer or
authorized person to inspect the premises at any time during normal business
hours of the establishment.
   (I)   Application and license fee.
      (l)   Concurrent with the submission of a license application, the
applicant shall pay to the city a nonrefundable fee of $250.
      (2)   Every sexually oriented business shall pay to the city an annual
license fee of $2,500, which fee is due and payable upon the issuance of a
license and/or before July 1 of each year thereafter.
      (3)   This fee is in lieu of the regular occupational license fee charged
to businesses.
      (4)   When the license is first issued, the annual fee may be prorated at
the rate of $208.33 per month for the remaining months of the current fiscal
year, which prorated fee is due and payable upon the issuance of a license.
   (J)   Expiration. Each license shall expire on June 30 of each calendar
year, unless earlier suspended or revoked. Application for a new license should
be made at least 30 days prior to the expiration date. If a licensee fails to
apply for a renewal of the license prior to June 1, there shall be a grace
period wherein no penalty shall be assessed against the applicant as long as
the application is submitted by July 15. If a licensee fails to submit an
application by July 15, there shall be a 10% or $500 penalty added to the
application fee. If a licensee and/or applicant fails to submit a renewal
application within 90 days of the expiration of the prior license, the license
will be considered to have lapsed and the provisions of this chapter relating
to suspension and, if the facts and circumstances warrant, revocation shall
apply.
   (K)   Suspension. A written intention to suspend a license for a period not
to exceed 30 days shall be issued if it is determined that the applicant,
owner, operator, or an employee thereof has violated any provision of this
chapter, has been on the sexually oriented establishment premises while
intoxicated or in a disorderly condition (consistent with the definition of
disorderly conduct contained in KRS Chapter 525), has refused to allow an
inspection of the premises, or has knowingly permitted any violation of state
law to occur on the premises.
   (L)   Revocation.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall issue a written statement of intent to revoke
a sexually oriented business license if a cause of suspension in division (K)
above occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12 months.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall issue a written statement of intent to revoke
a sexually oriented business license if he or she determines:
         (a)   An applicant knowingly gave false or misleading information in
the initial license or any subsequent license application;
         (b)   An applicant, owner, operator or employee has knowingly allowed
possession, use or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
         (c)   An applicant, owner, operator or employee has knowingly allowed
prostitution or solicitation for prostitution on the premises;
         (d)   An applicant, owner, operator or employee has knowingly operated
the sexually oriented business during a period of time when the licensee’s
license was suspended; or
         (e)   A licensee knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation or other sexual activities or specified sex act to
occur in or on the licensed premises. This division (L)(2)(e) will not apply to
an adult motel, unless the licensee knowingly allowed the aforementioned sexual
activities to occur either: in exchange for any consideration; or in a public
place or within public view.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the revocation of the license.
      (4)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described above, the
City Clerk revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one year and
the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license for one
year from the date the revocation becomes effective, provided that, if the
conditions of division (M)(2) are met, a provisional license will be granted
pursuant to that division. If subsequent to revocation, the enforcement officer
finds that the basis for revocation found in divisions (L)(2)(a) or (L)(2)(d)
have been corrected or abated, the applicant shall be granted a license if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (M)   Hearing for denial, suspension or revocation; appeal.
      (1)   If the City Clerk determines that facts exist to deny, suspend or
revoke a sexually oriented business license, he or she shall notify the
applicant or licensee in writing of the intent to deny, suspend or revoke,
including the grounds therefor.
         (a)   The notice shall be sent to the applicant or licensee by
personal delivery or certified mail at the address specified in the
application. Within five business days of receipt of such notice, the applicant
or licensee may provide to the City Clerk, in writing, a response which shall
include a statement of reasons why the license should not be denied, suspended,
or revoked and may include a request for a hearing. If a response is not timely
received by the City Clerk, the notice shall be a final administrative act of
denial, suspension, or revocation. If a timely response is received by the City
Clerk, he or she shall within three business days of the receipt of the
response notify respondent of the hearing date on respondent’s denial,
suspension, or revocation proceeding.
         (b)   Within ten business days of the receipt of respondent’s written
response, the City Clerk shall conduct a hearing at which respondent shall have
the opportunity to be represented by counsel and present evidence and witnesses
on his or her or its behalf. If a response is not received by the City Clerk in
the time stated or, if after the hearing, the City Clerk finds that grounds as
specified in this chapter exist for denial, suspension, or revocation, then
such denial suspension, or revocation shall become final five days after the
City Clerk sends, by certified mail, written notice that the license has been
denied, suspended, or revoked. Such notice shall include a statement advising
the applicant or licensee of the right to appeal such decision to a court of
competent jurisdiction.
         (c)   If the City Clerk finds that no grounds exist for denial,
suspension, or revocation of a license, then within five days after the
hearing, the City Clerk shall withdraw the intent to deny, suspend or revoke
the license, and shall so notify the respondent, in writing, by certified mail
of such action and shall contemporaneously issue the license.
      (2)   When a decision to deny, suspend or revoke a license becomes final,
the applicant or licensee (aggrieved party) whose application for a license has
been denied, or whose license has been suspended or revoked, shall have the
right to appeal such action to a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.10 EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   General requirements. Any person who is or intends to be employed or
working in any capacity, whether as an employee, working proprietor or
independent contractor, in a sexually oriented business as a sexually oriented
business employee, as defined hereinabove, shall obtain a sexually oriented
business employee license. The person seeking a sexually oriented business
employee license shall apply for a license with the City Clerk. Such
application shall be in writing, shall be on the form prescribed by the city
and shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The name, including any other name or alias used by the applicant
(e.g., “stage name”); present residence and business address; present residence
and business telephone number; date and place of birth (including a valid birth
certificate, driver’s license or other for of picture identification issued by
a governmental agency which includes the applicant’s date of birth); social
security number; date, issuing state and number of driver’s license; height,
weight, hair and eye color; a description of any distinguishing marks or
tattoos; and a recent photograph of the applicant.
      (2)   The name and address of the sexually oriented business where the
applicant intends to work together with a written statement that he or she has
received a copy of this chapter and that he or she will fully undertake to
comply therewith.
      (3)   A statement detailing the applicant’s work history for the five-
year period immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether the applicant previously operated or was employed in a
sexually oriented business; and whether the applicant has ever had a sexually
oriented business or other similar license denied, revoked or suspended. In the
event of any such denial, revocation or suspension, the applicant shall list
the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and state in full the reason
for the denial, revocation or suspension.
      (4)   A criminal record report for the applicant together with a
statement whether within the last five years the applicant has been convicted
of any criminal activity described in this chapter, and if so, the specific
criminal activity involved and the date, place and jurisdiction.
   (B)   Issuance process. The City Clerk shall issue a sexually oriented
business employee license to an applicant if all provisions of this chapter
have been met. The City Clerk shall conduct an investigation to determine
whether the applicant has met all requirements for issuance of a license. The
City Clerk shall grant or deny a license application within ten days of the
filing of such application. The review, denial, suspension, revocation, and
appeal procedures for the issuance of a sexually oriented business license in §
118.09 shall be the process for review, denial, suspension, revocation, and
appeal for a sexually oriented business employee license.
   (C)   License prohibitions. No sexually oriented business employee license
shall be issued if the applicant is less than 18 years of age or has been
convicted of any of the offenses listed in this chapter within the last five
years preceding the date of the application.
   (D)   Application and license fees.
      (1)   Concurrent with the submission of the license application, the
applicant shall pay to the city a nonrefundable fee of $25.
      (2)   Every sexually oriented business employee shall pay to the city an
annual license fee of $100, which fee is due and payable upon the issuance of a
license and on or before July 1 of each year thereafter.
      (3)   When the license is first issued, the annual fee may be prorated at
the rate of $8.33 per month for the remaining months of the current fiscal
year, which prorated fee is due and payable upon the issuance of a license.
      (4)   Application for a new license should be made at least 30 days prior
to the expiration date.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.11 REGISTRATION, PHOTOGRAPHING AND FINGERPRINTING OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   All persons holding a sexually oriented business license and all
sexually oriented business employees in any sexually oriented business
establishment or place of business, except as hereinafter provided, shall
register in a book of registration to be kept by the city Police Department,
and shall be hereby required to be registered, fingerprinted and photographed
by the city Police Department or its designated agency prior to the date of
commencing his or her business operations or employment with such
establishment.
      (2)   No person shall fail to register or be fingerprinted and
photographed prior to commencing such employment.
   (B)   Employer responsibility. No employer shall allow any person to be
employed unless the employee shall have registered and shall have been
fingerprinted and photographed as prescribed in division (A) above.
   (C)   Identification cards. The registrants under this section are required
to have the identification cards issued by the city Police Department or its
designated agency in their immediate possession during their hours of
employment. The identification card shall contain the registrant’s picture,
name, age, hair color, eye color, weight and place of employment.
   (D)   Fees. The city shall require a payment of $25 for each person
registered, which charge shall be applied to cover the cost involved in the
registration, including the cost of the identification card furnished to the
registrants.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.12 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT PREMISES TO FURNISH A CLEAR
VIEW.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Any establishment licensed for a sexually oriented business shall
be maintained in such a manner and shall provide a clear view of the entire
area open to the public from the front entrance to the entertainment area,
whether at street level or otherwise.
      (2)   No partition, box, stall, screen, curtain or other device shall be
installed or placed so as to obstruct the view or the general observation of
persons in any entertainment area; however, partitions, subdivisions or panels
that are not higher than 48 inches from the floor shall not be construed as
obstructing a view or the general observation of persons from the front
entrance of the license premises.
   (B)   Prohibitions. The darkening of any portion of the licensed premises
open to the public in any manner as to prevent any person standing at the front
entrance from observing the conduct of patrons therein should be prohibited.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.13 RESTRICTIONS ON ADVERTISEMENT.
   (A)   Any sexually oriented business license holder shall be required to
identify such business as “adult” in any advertisement.
   (B)   No lettering, words or representation of matter relating to sexual
activities as defined in this chapter shall be placed upon any advertisement.
   (C)   Sexually oriented activities or photographs of the same shall not be
displayed within any licensed premises in such a manner as to be open to the
general public view from outside the license premises.
   (D)   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a photograph or drawing of any signs to be displayed on the
exterior of the establishment with an indication as to the dimensions of the
same.
   (E)   Signage shall be posted in conspicuous locations indicating that
persons must be of appropriate age or older to enter.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.14 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   A sexually oriented business shall not be located within one mile of any
school, church, religious establishment, public library, daycare, or business
which sells alcohol or alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person or entity who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
118.04 through
118.07,
118.09 and
118.14 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for a period of not more than 12 months, or both.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §§
118.08 and
118.12 shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500 in the discretion
of the district court.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
118.10,
118.11 and
118.13 shall upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned
for a period of 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 782, passed 8-10-2023)
CHAPTER 119: MEDICAL CANNABIS SALES
Section
   
119.01   Definitions
   
119.02   Sale of medical cannabis; operation of all medical cannabis businesses
permitted
§ 119.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions within KRS 218B.010 are hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as if fully rewritten herein.
(Ord. 793, passed 9-12-2024)
§ 119.02 SALE OF MEDICAL CANNABIS; OPERATION OF ALL MEDICAL CANNABIS
BUSINESSES PERMITTED.
   The sale of medical cannabis to a registered qualified patient and the
operation of all medical cannabis businesses permitted by Kentucky law are
hereby permitted within the city limits of the City of Owenton, Kentucky.
(Ord. 793, passed 9-12-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Curfew for minors.
      (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to
be in a public place:
         (a)   After 12:00 a.m. and before 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
         (b)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or
Thursday; or
         (c)   Before 6:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or
Friday.
      (2)   It is a curfew violation for a child under 15 years of age to be in
a public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 6:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult with prior express verbal or written
authorization of a parent or legal guardian; and
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment; or
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious or
social event.
   (C)   Authority of police during curfew hours.
      (1)   Any police officer may stop and question any minor suspected of
violating this section’s provisions and may take the minor into custody when
found violating provisions of this section. The officer shall take the minor to
the city police headquarters where the name of the minor’s parent, guardian or
person having legal custody of him or her shall be ascertained.
      (2)   The parent, guardian or person having legal custody shall be
notified of the child’s detention as required by KRS 610.200 and summoned by
the investigating officer to appear at police headquarters to assist in the
completion of the investigation. If the parent, guardian or person having legal
custody fails to appear within two hours from the time the child was taken into
custody, the investigating officer shall follow the requirements set forth in
KRS Chapter 610 and other applicable provisions of the state’s Unified Juvenile
Code, regarding detention or release of the child.
      (3)   Unless the nature of the offense or other circumstances are such as
to indicate the necessity of keeping the child in secure custody, the officer
shall release the child to the custody of the parent, guardian, person having
legal custody or other responsible adult.
      (4)   If the investigating or apprehending officer is satisfied that a
violation of division (A) above has occurred, he or she shall cause formal
charges to be filed requiring the child and his or her parent, guardian or
person having legal custody to appear in the appropriate court to answer the
charge of a violation of division (A) above.
      (5)   If formal charges are to be brought, before a child is released to
the custody of a parent, guardian, person with legal custody or other
responsible adult, the investigating officer shall obtain a written promise
signed by such person that the person will bring the child to the court at the
stated time or at such time as the court may order. The written promise, along
with the written report of the investigating officer, shall be submitted to the
court as required by KRS 610.200.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 680, passed 10-14-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any child violating §
130.01(A) of this code shall be subject to the procedures and penalties
provided for by the state’s Unified Juvenile Code. Any parent, guardian or
person having legal custody of a child who violates any provision of §
130.01(A) of this code may be subject to the financial penalty provided for in
KRS 610.180.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. 680, passed 10-14-2008)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS; ALTERNATIVE LIVING STRUCTURES
      
152.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
153.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
154.   PLANNING AND ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of Building Code; enforcement agents
   
150.02   Fees for inspections by Building Inspector
   
150.03   Fees for building permit applications
   
150.04   Application
   
150.05   Appeals
   
150.06   Private swimming pools
Numbering of Houses
   
150.20   Premises to be numbered according to plan
   
150.21   Division lines
   
150.22   Assignment of numbers; blocks
   
150.23   Display of numbers required
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE; ENFORCEMENT AGENTS.
   (A)   Adoption of the state’s Building Code.
      (1)   The state’s Building Code, promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120 and the
state’s Residential Code, promulgated in 815 KAR 7:125 by the state’s Board of
Housing, Buildings and Construction, are hereby adopted in full as an ordinance
of the city as if set out at length herein.
      (2)   A copy of said Building Code is on file in the office of the County
Clerk, and the Clerk shall at all times keep a copy of said Building Code for
reference.
      (3)   An attested copy of the ordinance codified in this section shall be
transmitted to the state’s Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction.
   (B)   Designated enforcement officer. The Building Inspector shall be
designated as the local enforcement agent for the Building Code. All Building
Code inspections shall be performed by a person certified by the state’s
Department of Housing, Buildings and Construction. All electrical inspections
shall be performed by a certified electrical inspector specifically approved by
this jurisdiction.
   (C)   Building inspection program. Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a building
inspection program is hereby established in the city/county for application to
all buildings, including single-family dwellings as provided in the adopted
codes.
   (D)   Permits and fees. The fees for permits and inspections shall be as
provided for in the attached schedule.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 648, passed 11-8-2004) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 FEES FOR INSPECTIONS BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)    Fees for the services of the Building Inspector within the city
limits shall be as set forth in §
150.03 below.
   (B)   Fees shall be collected by the City Clerk or his or her designee at
the time the building permit is issued and permit fees paid.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall review the building permit application
with plans attached, prior to issuance of the building permit by the City
Clerk.
   (D)   All records pertaining to the building inspection/permit shall be
maintained within the City Hall.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of the person(s) granted the permit to
contact the Building Inspector to schedule dates and times for inspections.
(Ord. 651, passed 6-7-2005; Ord. 787, passed 1-11-2024)
§ 150.03 FEES FOR BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   The permit fee schedule shall be designated as set forth below.
   (A)   Residential building permits.
Residential Building Permits
Residential Building Permits
                                 Cost per sq. ft.         Flat fee Minimum fee
Single-family houses: include sq.
ft. of attached garages and all   $0.15                    Or       $100.00
drywalled areas of basement
Multi-family (must include        $0.15                    Or       $100.00
attached garage)
Manufactured/modular house        $0.11                    Or       $100.00
(double wide/sectional)
Mobile home (single wide)         $0.07                    Or       $100.00
Additions to existing houses      $0.15                    Or       $100.00
Finished basements (must pay for  $0.15                    Or       $100.00
any drywalled areas)
Interior alterations/renovations  $0.15                    Or       $100.00
Garages (free-standing)           $0.15                    Or       $100.00
Decks/balconies (no charge if                             $100.00   
completed with house)
Accessory buildings (no permit
for structure <120 sq. ft. but    $0.15                    Or       $50.00
zoning regulations still apply)
Pools:   Above ground                                  $50.00    
      In ground                                     $100.00   
Demolition permit                                         $50.00    
                                                                   
Greenhouses                       $15.00 per 5,000 sq. ft. Or       $50.00
Retaining walls (over 4 feet                              $100.00   
high) and footer (2 inspections)
Moving existing structure                                 $100.00   
Sprinklers (residential)                                  $50.00    
Renewing expired permits (if no                           $100.00   
activity for 180 days)
Minimum permit fee (fees that are                         $50.00    
not set)
Foundation only permit (non-                              $100.00   
refundable)
Re-inspection fee                                         $50.00    
 
   (B)   Commercial building permits.
 
Commercial Building Permits
Including: new buildings, tenant finish, change in occupancy classification,
renovations and additions
                                         Cost per sq. ft. Flat fee Minimum fee
If building is inspected by state (state  $0.06                     $100.00
jurisdiction under KBC 104.2)
If building is inspected by county (local $0.10                     $100.00
jurisdiction under KBC 104.1)
New construction plan review fee (county                  $100.00   
inspection only)
 
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 486-1, passed 12-2-1987; Ord. 520, passed 7-3-
1990; Ord. 657, passed 12-6-2005; Ord. 787, passed 1-11-2024)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 APPLICATION.
   The application of the state’s Building Code shall be extended to all
single-family dwellings in the city which are to be constructed or remodeled.
(Prior Code, § 150.03)
§ 150.05 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the Building Inspector under this chapter may
be taken to the state’s Board of Housing, Buildings and Construction unless
and/or until a local Board of Housing Appeals, as set forth in KRS Chapter
198B, is established to hear such appeals.
(Prior Code, § 150.04)
Statutory reference:
   Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.06 PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Private swimming pools. Private swimming pools three feet or more in
depth, constructed or assembled shall be regulated according to the following
requirements.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, maintain, use, or
permit the use of a swimming pool on his or her premises, or premises under his
or her control, unless he or she has complied with all of the requirements and
regulations of this section.
      (2)   No swimming pool shall be constructed until the owner of the real
estate first applies for and procures a building permit for the construction of
such a pool from the city. Any such application for a building permit shall be
accompanied by detailed plans and specifications for the construction of the
swimming pool, fences, walls, and gates. The city shall not issue a building
permit for a pool unless it conforms in all details with the requirements of
this section and any and all other ordinances in effect and applicable to such
construction.
      (3)   Swimming pools shall be permitted to be located only to the rear of
the principal permitted dwelling.
      (4)   Except as herein provided, no swimming pool, including the
apparatus and equipment pertaining to the operation of the swimming pool shall
be permitted within any required yards of the lot nor within the limits of any
public utility right-of-way easement.
      (5)   No person, firm, or corporation shall maintain or operate a
swimming pool without said pool having a fence, including self-latching gate or
door. Said fence shall not be less than four feet in height and of such
construction that a small child may not reach the pool from a street or
adjacent property without opening a gate or scaling a wall or fence. Further,
all swimming pools shall be completely enclosed by an approved closely woven
fence, wall, or other enclosure so as to be reasonably impenetrable by
children. Any and all gates shall have a self-closing and self-latching gate or
gates, four feet in height so that the swimming pools are completely surrounded
and enclosed by such fencing, wall, and gates.
      (6)   Fencing installed on top of the swimming pool is permitted
providing the bottom of the fence is four inches or less from the top of the
pool. A self-closing and self-latching gate is required. The cost of this type
of fence will be added to the total cost of the swimming pool.
      (7)   Automatic safety covers do not replace the requirement for a fence.
      (8)   Glare from flood lights used to illuminate the swimming pool area
for night swimming shall be directed away from adjacent properties.
      (9)   All swimming pools, including the apparatus and equipment
pertaining to the operation of the swimming pool, shall be constructed and
erected in accordance with all applicable codes, ordinances and regulations of
the city. Any water used in the operation of a swimming pool, other than a
public source, shall be approved by the appropriate health department.
      (10)   Plastic or blow-up pools that are less than three feet in depth,
that do not require a fence, cannot be left with standing water over night.
   (B)   Disputes; appeals. Any and all disputes will be made to the Building
Inspector. Any appeal regarding a dispute shall be made to the City Council.
   (C)   Penalty. Each violation of this section shall constitute a civil
offense. If a citation of violation is not contested; the civil fine shall be
$100 for the first offense, and shall be $200 for the second offense. If a
citation of violation is contested the civil fine shall be $200 for the first
offense and $400 for the second offense.
(Ord. 791, passed - -2024)
NUMBERING OF HOUSES
§ 150.20 PREMISES TO BE NUMBERED ACCORDING TO PLAN.
   All houses, residences and business places in the city shall be numbered
according to the plan set out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.15) (Ord. 258, passed 4-23-1958) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 DIVISION LINES.
   The division line north and south shall be Seminary Street, and the division
line east and west shall be that part of Roland Avenue lying north of its
intersection with Main Street, and Main Street from that intersection south to
the triangle.
(Prior Code, § 150.16) (Ord. 258, passed 4-23-1958)
§ 150.22 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS; BLOCKS.
   (A)   Even numbers shall be assigned to the north side of streets and alleys
running east and west, and to the west side of streets and alleys running north
and south; and that odd numbers shall be assigned to the south sides of streets
and alleys running east and west, and to the east side of streets and alleys
running north and south.
   (B)   A series of 100 numbers shall be assigned to each block hereinafter
designated, and that said blocks shall be constituted as follows:
 
100 Block North
On Bacon Alley    From Seminary Street north to Perry Street
On Cherry Alley   From Seminary Street north to Perry Street
On Madison Street From Seminary Street north to Perry Street
On Main Street    From Seminary Street north to Perry Street
On Roland Avenue  From Seminary Street north to Perry Street
On Thomas Street  From Seminary Street north to Perry Street
200 Block North
200 Block North
On Bacon Alley    From Perry Street north to Blanton Street
On Cherry Alley   From Perry Street north to its northern end
On Gayle Avenue   From its southern end north to Botts Street
On Madison Street From Perry Street north to Blanton Street
On Main Street    From Perry Street north to Blanton Street
On Roland Avenue  From Perry Street north to Botts Street
On Thomas Street  From Perry Street north to Blanton Street
300 Block North
300 Block North
On Adams Street   From Blanton Street north to the alley lying just north of
                  the Baptist Parsonage
On Cross Street   From Blanton Street north to Center Street
On Gayle Avenue   From Botts Street north to Main Street
On Locust Alley   From its southern end north to Main Street
On Madison Street From Blanton Street north to its northern end
On Main Street    From Blanton Street northwest to Roland Street
On North Street   From Blanton Street north to Center Street
On Roland Avenue  From Botts Street north to Main Street
On Thomas Street  From Blanton Street north to Main Street
 
400 Block North
On Adams Street  From the alley north of the Baptist parsonage to the northern
                 end of Adams Street
On Cross Street  From Center Street north to northern end of Cross Street
On North Street  From Center Street north to northern end of North Street
On Roland Avenue From Main Street north to the city limits
100 Block South
100 Block South
On Bacon Alley    From Seminary Street south to Adair Street
On Cherry Alley   From Seminary Street south to Adair Street
On Kelly Court    From Seminary Street south to the first intersecting street
On Madison Street From Seminary Street south to Adair Street
On Main Street    From Seminary Street south to Adair Street
On Sunset Drive   From Seminary Street south to Adair Street
On Thomas Street  From Seminary Street south to Adair Street
 
200 Block South
On Ford Street    From Adair Street south to Ransdell Street
On Kelly Court    From the first intersecting street south to the second
                  intersecting street
On Madison Street From Adair Street south to the southern end of Madison Street
On Main Street    From Adair Street south to Beck Street
On Thomas Street  From Adair Street south to the southern end of Thomas Street
 
300 Block South
On Ford Street From Ransdell Street south to the southern end of Ford Street
On Kelly Court From the second intersecting street south to Avon Street
On Main Street From Beck Street south to Gaines Avenue
 
400 Block South
On Main Street From Gaines Avenue south to the intersection of Frankfort and
               Georgetown Roads
 
500 Block South
On Frankfort Road  From the intersection of the Frankfort and Georgetown Roads
                   southwest to the city limits
On Georgetown Road From the intersection of the Frankfort and Georgetown Roads
                   southeast to the city limits
100 Block West
100 Block West
On Adair Street    From Main Street west to Madison Street
On Beck Street     From Main Street west to the west end of Beck Street
On Blanton Street  From Main Street west to Madison Street
On Bryan Street    From Main Street west to Madison Street
On Forsee Alley    From Main Street west to Madison Street
On Gaines Avenue   From Main Street west to the end of Gaines Avenue
On Parker Alley    From Main Street west to Madison Street
On Perry Street    From Main Street west to Madison Street
On Seminary Street From Main Street west to Madison Street
On Wood Alley      From Main Street west to Madison Street
200 Block West
200 Block West
On Adair Street    From Madison Street west to the end of Adair Street
On Botts Street    From Gayle Avenue west to Roland Avenue
On Bryan Street    From Madison Street west to the end of Bryan Street
On Forsee Alley    West from Madison Street to the end of Forsee Alley
On Parker Alley    From Madison Street west to the west end of Parker Alley
On Perry Street    From Madison Street west to Roland Avenue
On Seminary Street From Madison Street west to Roland Avenue
 
300 Block West
On Seminary Street From Roland Avenue west to Cubbage Street
 
400 Block West
On Cubbage Street  From its east intersection with Seminary Street to its west
                   intersection with Seminary Street
On Lee Avenue      From Seminary Street northwest to the city limits
On Seminary Street From Cubbage Street west to the city limits
100 Block East
100 Block East
On Adair Street    From Adams Street east to the original town boundary
On Blanton Street  From Main Street east to North Street
On Bryan Street    From Main Street east to Bacon Alley
On Forsee Alley    From Main Street east to Bacon Alley
On Parker Alley    From Main Street east to the end of Parker alley
On Perry Street    From Main Street east to the end of Perry Street
On Rose Court      From Main Street east to the end of Rose Court
On Seminary Street From Main Street east to the end of Seminary Street
 
200 Block East
On Adair Street   From original town boundary east to Roberts Alley
On Blanton Street From North Street east to Cross Street
On Center Street  From North Street east to Cross Street
 
300 Block East
On Adair Street    From Roberts Alley east to Ford Street
On Ransdell Street From Roberts Alley east to Ford Street
 
400 Block East
On Adair Street    From Ford Street east to the city limits
On Ransdell Street From Roberts Alley east to the end of Ransdell Street
 
   (C)   Numbers, according to the plan hereinbefore set out, shall be assigned
to each house, residence and business place in the city by a surveyor to be
appointed by the Mayor, who shall act under his or her supervision, and which
surveyor shall report in writing to the City Council the numbers assigned by
him or her to each house, residence and business place.
(Prior Code, § 150.17) (Ord. 258, passed 4-23-1958; Ord. 333, passed 9-2-1969)
§ 150.23 DISPLAY OF NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   Each owner and occupant of a house, residence and business place in the city
shall cause to be displayed in a prominent place on each residence, house or
business place owned or occupied by him or her, a series of numbers correctly
indicating the number assigned to such residence, house or business place.
(Prior Code, § 150.18) (Ord. 258, passed 4-23-1958)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provisions of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 of this code shall be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   Violators of the state’s Building Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
      (2)   Violators of the state’s Standards of Safety shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1,000,
confined in the county jail for not more than 60 days, or both, for each
offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
      (3)   Violators of the state’s Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
150.02 by beginning construction prior to having been issued a permit by the
city shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100.
   (C)   Any owner or occupant of any house, residence or half of a business
place in the city, failing to so display or cause to be displayed upon a house,
residence or business place owned or occupied by him or her such series of
numbers correctly describing the number assigned to such house, residence or
business place, after the expiration of the said 30 days as set forth in §§
150.20 through
150.23 of this code, shall be subject to a fine of $1 for each day so
delinquent, and each day of such delinquency shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 258, passed 4-23-1958; Ord. 486, passed 12-2-1987)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS; ALTERNATIVE LIVING STRUCTURES
Section
   
151.01   Mobile homes and trailers; use limited; exceptions
   
151.02   Alternative living structures; prohibitions
§ 151.01 MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS; USE LIMITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Mobile homes or trailers shall not be brought into the city and placed
on any lot or public way therein for residential use or other purposes, unless
located within an approved mobile home park under valid permit from the state’s
Department of Health. This does not prohibit temporary parking of a trailer,
nor the bringing into the city of tuberculosis testing trailers, bookmobiles or
other similar units.
   (B)   Trailers and mobile homes may be located and maintained within the
city limits if located on publicly-owned property other than streets or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 349, passed 5-30-1972; Ord. 481, passed 9-1-1987)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 ALTERNATIVE LIVING STRUCTURES; PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to erect a tent or park a
motor vehicle or motor home or any property within the city limits for the
purpose of living in. Any dwelling has to be approved by the Building
Inspector.
(Ord. 741, passed 9-2-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Written permit required; form
   
152.02   Certain requirements needed before issuance of permit
   
152.03   Furnishing false information
   
152.04   Failure to carry out terms of permit
   
152.05   Existing signs
   
152.06   Removal of signs
   
152.07   Enforcement authority; administration
   
152.08   Occupational tax license to be secured
   
152.09   Appeal procedure
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 WRITTEN PERMIT REQUIRED; FORM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct,
erect, post, place, hang, display or maintain upon any street, alley, sidewalk
or upon any city building, or upon a wall, fence, post or tree upon or adjacent
to any street, alley or sidewalk, or over any street, alley or sidewalk in the
city or upon a vacant lot or in any yard in the city unless placed a distance
from the sidewalk equal to its length or height, whichever is greater, any
billboard, signboard, sign, banner, poster or advertisement, without first
having obtained from the city a written permit to do so.
   (B)   Said permits are not required to be in any particular words or form,
but may be in substantially the following words and form:
 
Permit is hereby granted by City of Owenton, Ky., to            to construct, erect, post,
place, hang, display and maintain a billboard, signboard, sign, banner, poster or
advertisement, in the city in the following place and in the following manner: Upon it
appearing and upon his or her representations that same is not be constructed of inflammable
materials, or placed in the immediate vicinity of any exposed electric wires, will not
constitute a fire hazard, or physical hazard, or endanger the health and safety of the general
public, or become unsanitary, or insecure, or offensive to decency or public morals, and upon
his or her assurances that he or she shall maintain same in the above manner, and will when
its purpose is fulfilled remove same at once, and will, if same does become hazardous,
dangerous, combustible, unsanitary, insecure or offensive to morals and decency, remove same
at once or improve same so as to comply with the provisions hereof, with or without notice.
Failure to carry out the terms of the permit, or securing same upon false representations or
issuances, shall be prosecuted by warrant, and may be fined, punished by suspension or
revocation of license, and by fine, and City of Owenton may summarily remove any such
billboard, signboard, sign, banner, poster or advertisement violating the terms of this permit
or the provisions of Ordinance 152 of the City of Owenton.
This permit shall not dispense with the necessity of securing occupational license tax in such
instances as are required by other ordinances of the City of Owenton.
Issued this        day of         , 20      .
                                               
Mayor, City of Owenton, Ky.
 
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. 152, passed 6-6-1936) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS NEEDED BEFORE ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   No permit shall be granted unless it appears:
   (A)   That such billboard, signboard, sign, banner, poster or advertisement
is constructed of incombustible material, is not in the immediate vicinity of
any exposed electric wires and will not constitute a fire hazard;
   (B)   That such billboard, signboard, sign, banner, poster or advertisement
shall be constructed, erected, posted, placed, hanged, displayed and maintained
in a secure a safe manner and will not constitute a physical hazard or endanger
the health and safety of the public;
   (C)   That such billboard, signboard, sign, banner, poster or advertisement
shall contain nothing offensive to public morals or decency;
   (D)   That such billboard, signboard, sign, banner, poster or advertisement,
will upon its use being fulfilled, at once be removed by the person, firm or
corporation constructing, erecting, posting, placing, hanging, displaying or
maintaining same; and
   (E)   That such billboard, signboard, sign, banner, poster or advertisement,
upon becoming unsafe, insecure, hazardous, dangerous, readily combustible,
unsanitary or deemed obscene, will be immediately removed, or made safe,
secure, sanitary, inoffensive and put into proper condition. For the purpose of
this division (E), material is OBSCENE when the average person, applying
contemporary community standards, would find that the work taken as a whole,
appeals to the prurient interest; the work depicts or describes, in a patently
offensive way, sexual conduct specifically defined by applicable law; and the
work taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. 152, passed 6-6-1936)
§ 152.03 FURNISHING FALSE INFORMATION.
   It shall be unlawful to furnish false information for the purpose of
securing a permit.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. 152, passed 6-6-1936) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 FAILURE TO CARRY OUT TERMS OF PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful to fail to carry out the terms of a permit.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. 152, passed 6-6-1936) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 EXISTING SIGNS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not affect existing billboards,
signboards, signs, banners, posters or advertisements. However, if same now
are, or shall become unsafe, insecure, combustible, hazardous, dangerous,
unsanitary or offensive to decency and public morals, the person, firm or
corporation constructing, erecting, posting, placing, hanging, displaying or
maintaining same, or upon whose property same are situated, may be required to
remove or improve same, and shall become subject to the penalties provided
herein. No existing billboard, signboard, sign, banner, poster or advertisement
shall be hereafter constructed, erected, posted, placed, hanged, displayed or
maintained in a new and different location without the securing of the permit
provided in §
152.01 of this code, and the replacing of existing billboards, signboards,
signs, banner, posters or advertisements with new ones shall also necessitate
the securing of such a permit.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. 152, passed 6-6-1936) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 REMOVAL OF SIGNS.
   Upon violation of any part of this chapter, the Mayor may in writing notify
the person, firm or corporation constructing, erecting, posting, placing,
hanging, displaying or maintaining such billboard, signboard, sign, banner,
poster or advertisement, or upon whose property it is situated, to remove or
improve same within three hours; or, with or without notice, if danger be
imminent, or decency or public morals be involved, may direct the Chief of
Police to cause same to be summarily removed.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. 152, passed 6-6-1936)
§ 152.07 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY; ADMINISTRATION.
   The authority to issue such permits and to enforce the provisions of this
chapter shall be and is hereby vested in the Mayor of the city, and he or she
may in writing revoke or suspend any permit which is violated. He or she shall
cause a permanent record to be kept of all permits issued, suspended or
revoked, and shall retain duplications of all permits issued.
(Prior Code, § 152.07) (Ord. 152, passed 6-6-1936)
§ 152.08 OCCUPATIONAL TAX LICENSE TO BE SECURED.
   This chapter shall not dispense with the necessity of securing occupational
tax license under Chapter 110 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 152.08) (Ord. 152, passed 6-6-1936)
§ 152.09 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision to deny or suspend or revoke or
suspend a permit under §
152.07 shall have the right to appeal to the legislative body. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the legislative body, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The legislative body shall set
the time and place for a hearing. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be
given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee
at his or her known address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
   (B)   The order of the legislative body after the hearing shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 152.09)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$500, and failure to issue notice to remove shall not be a defense to any
prosecution hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 152.99) (Ord. 152, passed 6-6-1936)
CHAPTER 153: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Obligation of property owners to repair and maintain sidewalks
Excavations and Construction
   
153.15   Opening permit required
   
153.16   Application and cash deposit
   
153.17   Restoration of pavement
   
153.18   Barriers around excavations
   
153.19   Warning lights
   
153.20   Sidewalk construction
Road and Bridge Projects
   
153.35   Public hearing required
   
153.36   Notice requirements
   
153.37   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
153.38   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
153.39   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
153.40   Exemptions from hearing requirement
   
153.41   Street and federal highway system
Obstructions
   
153.55   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
153.56   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
153.57   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
153.58   Removal of ice and snow
   
153.59   Depositing leaves, grass or other debris onto any sidewalk, street or
other public way prohibited
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 OBLIGATION OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO REPAIR AND MAINTAIN SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The owner of any real property within the city which is adjoined by a
public sidewalk shall be responsible for the maintenance of said sidewalk. This
shall include the obligation to clear debris, snow and ice from the sidewalk
within a reasonable time of its accumulation.
   (B)   Should any sidewalk, or section thereof, become damaged or
deteriorated to the extent that it constitutes a danger to pedestrians, the
owner shall repair or replace said sidewalk. Any such repair or replacement
shall be made in accordance with specifications for the adjoining sidewalk.
Further, the constructions plans, materials and specification must be approved
by the legislative body, as provided in this chapter, prior to construction.
(Ord. 656, passed 12-6-2005)
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 153.15 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single
project and shall be issued by the authorized city official.
   (B)   Application shall be made on a form prescribed by the legislative
body, giving the exact location of the proposed opening, the kind of paving,
the area and depth to be excavated and such other facts as may be provided for.
   (C)   The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit sufficient to
cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the authorized city
official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations and
restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 153.17 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without notice to
make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
153.16 of this code shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid
into the appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the
permittee as the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for
restoration services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed
by the city should exceed the amount of the deposit, the City Clerk-Treasurer
or other proper administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder
due from the permittee.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 153.18 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.19 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.20 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the authorized city official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the city. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the legislative body for approval.
   (B)   When the specifications are approved, the legislative body shall
advertise for proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the city in
construction and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the Mayor to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall furnish good and sufficient sureties for the faithful
performance of the work. The Mayor, if authorized by City Council, may make
separate contracts for the different kinds of work with different parties.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 153.35 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100) (Prior Code, § 91.15)
§ 153.36 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a public hearing for the
purpose of taking the sense of the public with regard to road and bridge
matters within the city. Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than
seven days nor more than 21 days before the scheduled date of the public
hearing and before beginning work on any project covered by this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(1)) (Prior Code, § 91.16)
§ 153.37 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he or she feels should be built or done which has
not been proposed, priorities for completion of projects and any other matter
related to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100(2), (3)) (Prior Code, § 91.17)
§ 153.38 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100(4)) (Prior Code, § 91.18)
§ 153.39 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing
for each project.
   (B)   A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100(5)) (Prior Code, § 91.19)
§ 153.40 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair or
replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or human-caused
disasters, nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
(KRS 174.100(6), (7)) (Prior Code, § 91.20)
§ 153.41 STREET AND FEDERAL HIGHWAY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Whenever the state’s Commissioner of Highways, by authority of KRS
177.042, designates any streets or portions thereof, including viaducts and
bridges, as connecting links of state or federally maintained highways, or
necessary feeder streets thereto, and thereby undertakes the future
maintenance, repair, construction or reconstruction of such streets, bridges or
viaducts in the manner provided by the aforesaid statutes, the Mayor is hereby
expressly authorized, instructed and directed to enter into any and all
contracts and agreements with the Bureau of Highways necessary to carry out the
purposes and provisions of said statutes.
   (B)   Should the Bureau of Highways construct or reconstruct any streets in
the city, such work shall be done by the Bureau as the agent of the city, as
set out in KRS 177.043.
(Prior Code, § 91.21) (Ord. 198, passed 1-7-1974)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 153.55 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.56 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.57 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.58 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his or her premises free and clear of snow and ice to the
extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove
therefrom all snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather
conditions, accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily
not exceed 12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and
ice may have accumulated.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.59 DEPOSITING LEAVES, GRASS, OR OTHER DEBRIS ONTO SIDEWALK, STREET, OR
OTHER PUBLIC WAY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep, rake, throw, blow, or otherwise deposit any leaves,
grass, or other debris onto any sidewalk, street, or other public way of the
city, except when such debris is placed in a bag or other container for the
purpose of a regularly scheduled, collection, pickup, or city-authorized leaf
removal.
(Ord. 775, passed 1-19-2023) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
153.59 shall be subject to the following penalties and fines:
      (1)   Penalty.
         (a)   First offense: written warning.
         (b)   Second offense: citation to District Court.
      (2)   Fine.
         (a)   First offense: $25 - $100.
         (b)   Second offense: $100 - $250.
   (B)   Whoever violates any other section of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 775, passed 1-19-2023)
CHAPTER 154: PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Zoning Code of the city, as amended from time to time, is
hereby adopted by reference as if set forth fully herein.
(Ord. 292, passed 9-7-1965; Ord. 397, passed 4-3-1979; Ord. 518, passed 4-3-
1990; Ord. 522, passed 7-3-1990; Ord. 602, passed 3-6-1998; Ord. 708, passed 7-
10-2012; Ord. 714, passed 12-4-2012)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   SIDEWALK GRADES AND IMPROVEMENTS
      
V.   STREET AND ALLEY CLOSINGS AND OPENINGS
      
VI.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
VII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VIII.   AD VALOREM TAXATION
      
IX.   PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
227  9-4-   Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the present city limits, 456
     1951   feet east of the present southwest corner of the city limits.
     11-14- Annexing certain territory beginning at a corner to the present city limits
394  1978   said corner being in the east right-of-way line of Highway 127-227 and 14 feet
            north of the southwest corner of the I.O.O.F. cemetery.
448  2-7-   An unimproved area on the northern side of said city. Beginning at an iron pin
     1984   in the west right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 127-227, corner of Jack Welch.
471  3-3-   Annexing 1.51 acres at the southeast corner of the city located on the south
     1987   side of Highway 22 and 227.
505  3-12-  Annexing 23.162 acres adjoining the east and northeast sides of the city known
     1989   as Horizon Homes Estates Subdivision.
     12-13- Annexing a certain tract of land lying easterly of U.S. 127 and KY 227;
561  1993   beginning at a point in the westerly right-of-way line of U.S. 127 and KY 227
            being a corner to Howell and Kindoll and Riley.
563  6-7-   Annexing 26.0455 acres, beginning at a point in the center of Gratz Road, KY
     1994   22, a corner to Roy Spaulding, deed book 149, page 472.
569  8-2-   Annexing the Upper Thomas Lake, Lower Thomas Lake, Water Treatment Plant and
     1994   New Water Treatment Site into the city.
584  10-19- Intending to annex certain property adjacent to the city’s eastern boundary.
     1995
     10-7-  Annexing a certain tract of land lying in Owen County on the west side of
679  2008   Highway 127 approximately 4,000 feet south of the intersection of Highway 978
            and Highway 127.
            Intending to annex certain property situated in Owen County and lying east of
715  1-8-   Highway 1287, also known as East Adair Street. Beginning at the existing city
     2013   limit boundaries for a distance of 0.810 mile to Highway 3095, also known as
            Ellis Highway.
            Intending to annex certain property situated in Owen County and lying on the
716  1-8-   south of 127, also known as Frankfort Road. Beginning at the existing city
     2013   limit boundaries for a distance of 1.22 miles to the properties of Cornelius
            Mann on the east side and Tim Cobb on the west side.
            Intending to annex certain property situated in Owen County and lying on the
717  1-8-   east of Highway 22, also known as Dry Ridge Road. Beginning at the existing
     2013   city limit boundaries for a distance of 1.944 miles to the end of the school
            properties on the north side and Danny and Judy Jacobs on the south side.
            Intending to annex certain property situated in Owen County and lying on the
718  1-8-   west of Highway 22, also known as Gratz Road. Beginning at the existing city
     2013   limit boundaries for a distance of 0.375 mile to the end of Ronnie Jones
            property on the north side and to the end of Donald Perkins on the south side.
            Intending to annex certain property situated in Owen County and lying on the
719  1-8-   north of 127, also known as Sparta Road. Beginning at the existing city limit
     2013   boundaries for a distance of 0.912 mile to Highway 227 and the property of
            Garroll and Becky Shryock on the west side and Danny Jacobs on the east side.
            Annexing certain property situated in Owen County and lying on the east of
721  5-7-   Highway 1287, also known as East Adair Street. Beginning at the existing city
     2013   limit boundaries for a distance of 0.810 mile to Highway 3095, also known as
            Ellis Highway.
            Annexing certain property situated in Owen County and lying on the south of
722  5-7-   127, also known as Frankfort Road. Beginning at the existing city limit
     2013   boundaries for a distance of 1.22 miles to the properties of Cornelius Mann on
            the east side and Tim Cobb on the west side.
            Annexing certain property situated in Owen County and lying on the east of
723  5-7-   Highway 22, also known as Dry Ridge Road. Beginning at the existing city limit
     2013   boundaries for a distance of 1.944 miles to the end of the school properties on
            the north side and Danny and Judy Jacobs on the south side.
            Annexing certain property situated in Owen County and lying on the west of
724  5-7-   Highway 22, also known as Gratz Road. Beginning at the existing city limit
     2013   boundaries for a distance of 0.375 mile to the end of Ronnie Jones property on
            the north side and to the end of Donald Perkins on the south side.
            Annexing certain property situated in Owen County and lying on the north of
725  5-7-   127, also known as Sparta Road. Beginning at the existing city limit boundaries
     2013   for a distance of 0.912 mile to Highway 227 and the property of Garroll and
            Becky Shryock on the west side and Danny Jacobs on the east side.
729  5-29-  Amending Ord. 721 to more particularly describe the annexation in Exhibit 1.
     2013
730  5-29-  Amending Ord. 722 to more particularly describe the annexation in Exhibit 1.
     2013
731  5-29-  Amending Ord. 723 to more particularly describe the annexation in Exhibit 1.
     2013
732  5-29-  Amending Ord. 724 to more particularly describe the annexation in Exhibit 1.
     2013
733  5-29-  Amending Ord. 725 to more particularly describe the annexation in Exhibit 1.
     2013
            (A)    Annexing the following described lot located on the north side of
            Highway 227 about one mile southeast of the city limits and described as
            follows: Bounded on the front or south side a distance of 200 feet by the edge
     10-14- of the said U.S. Highway 227, bounded on the east a distance of 300 feet by the
744  2014   land of D.L. Johnson, bounded on the north a distance of 200 feet by other land
            of the grantors, A.J. Thomas and Etta Mae Thomas, and bounded on the west a
            distance of 300 feet by other land of said grantors. The lot is in the form of
            a rectangle and the new corners located between it and the other land of the
            grantors are marked by concrete cylinders.
            (B)    An unimproved lot located about one mile southeast of the city on the
            north side of Kentucky Highway 22 in Owen County and described as follows:
          Bounded on the south a distance of 70 feet by the said highway, bounded on the
            west a distance of 300 feet by the remaining property grantors, bounded on the
            north a distance of 70 feet by the property of A.J. Thomas and bounded on the
            east a distance of 300 feet by the property of the grantees.
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorized to execute on behalf of the city a contract
244      9-6-1954    between the city and the State Agency of Old Age and
                     Survivors Insurance System.
288      10-1-1964   Amending Ord. 244 concerning an Old Age and Survivors
                     Insurance rider.
                     Authorizing execution of an Interlocal Cooperation
588      11-7-1995   Agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk
                     Management Association.
749      6-2-2015    Authorizing a contract with a state-certified electrical
                     inspector.
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
461      4-1-1986    Granting franchise to Kentucky Utilities Company.
532      10-14-1991  Granting a franchise to Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., for
                     solid waste pickup and disposal services.
557      10-28-1993  Granting a franchise to Rumpke of Kentucky, Inc., for
                     solid waste pickup and disposal services.
587      10-30-1995  Granting an exclusive franchise to Rumpke of Kentucky,
                     Inc. for solid waste pick up and disposal services.
609      10-13-1998  Granting an exclusive franchise to Rumpke of Kentucky,
                     Inc., for solid waste pick up and disposal services.
                     Creating a franchise for the erection, laying and
                     maintenance of electric facilities and appurtenant
684      9-1-2009    facilities and equipment for public ways, roads, streets,
                     alleys and other public places in the city, for furnishing
                     and selling electricity and providing for the sale of said
                     franchise.
                     Creating a franchise for the erection, laying and
                     maintenance of natural gas facilities and appurtenant
                     facilities and equipment in, along and across the public
690      11-18-2010  ways, roads, streets, alley and other public places in the
                     city for furnishing and selling natural gas by means of
                     said facilities; and providing for the sale of said
                     franchise.
                     Granting a franchise to the City of Carrolton and the
                     Carrollton Utilities Commission for the erection, laying
691      12-20-2010  and maintenance of a natural gas facility system,
                     appurtenant facilities and equipment in, along and across
                     the public ways, roads, streets, alleys and other public
                     places in the city.
                    
 
TABLE IV: SIDEWALK GRADES AND IMPROVEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
72   5-4-   The grade of sidewalk on the north side of Bryan Alley from Adam Street to
     1915   Madison Street is hereby established.
     5-4-   The grade of the sidewalk on the southern side of Perry Street from the northeast
73   1915   corner of Mrs. W.W. Stamper’s lot to the northwest corner of J.M. Hunt’s lot is
            hereby established.
74   5-4-   The grade of sidewalk on the north side of Adair Street from the southeast corner
     1915   of F. Mick’s lot to Madison Street is hereby established.
75   5-4-   The grade of the sidewalk on the north side of Seminary Street from the west line
     1915   of Adams Street to the east line of Roland Avenue is hereby established.
     5-4-   The grade of the sidewalk on the east side of Adams Street from the southwest
76   1915   corner of G.W. O’Banion’s lot to the south end of the brick pavement in front of
            R.C. Ford’s lot is hereby established.
77   5-4-   The grade of the sidewalk on the west side of Roland Avenue from Seminary Street
     1915   to the north corporation line is hereby established.
78   5-7-   The improvement of Bryan Alley, by grading and constructing the sidewalk on the
     1915   north side of Bryan Alley from Adams Street to Madison Street in the city.
            The improvement of Perry Street, by grading and constructing the sidewalks on the
     5-7-   south side of Perry Street from the northeast corner of Mrs. W.W. Stamper’s lot
79   1915   to the northwest corner of J.M. Hunt’s lot, and the sidewalk on the north side of
            Perry Street from the southeast corner of Harry Mason’s lot to the southwest
            corner of Judy Threlkeld’s lot in the city.
            The improvement of Adair Street, by grading and constructing the sidewalks on the
80   5-7-   north side of Adair Street from the southeast corner of F. Mack’s lot to Madison
     1915   Street and the sidewalk on the south side of Adair Street from the northeast
            corner of Dr. E.R. Shipp’s lot to Madison Street in the city.
            The improvements of Seminary Street, by grading and constructing the sidewalks on
            the north side of Seminary Street from the west side of Adams Street to the east
     5-7-   line of Roland Avenue and the sidewalk on the south side of Seminary Street from
81   1915   the northeast corner of Miss Jennie Thornton’s lot to the northwest corner of
            Mrs. J.A. Moore’s lot and the sidewalk on the south side of Seminary Street from
            the east line of Adams Street to the northeast corner of the Second Baptist
            Church property in the city.
            The improvement of Adams Street, by grading and constructing the sidewalk on the
     5-7-   east side of Adams Street from the southwest corner of G.W. O’Banion’s lot to the
82   1915   south end of the brick pavement in front of R.C. Ford’s lot and the sidewalk on
            the west side of Adams Street from the northeast corner of Mrs. J.N. Beck’s
            concrete walk in the city.
            The improvement of Roland Avenue, by grading and constructing the sidewalk on the
83   5-17-  west side of Roland Avenue from Seminary Street to the north corporation line and
     1915   the sidewalk of the east side of Roland Avenue from Seminary Street to the
            southwest corner of Mrs. Nancy Littrell’s lot in the city.
477  5-11-  Repealing the first part of Ordinance 77, passed May 4, 1915, establishing the
     1987   grade of sidewalks on the west side of Roland Avenue.
           
 
TABLE V: STREET AND ALLEY CLOSINGS AND OPENINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
276  12-4-  Closing the north four feet of East Seminary lying between Main Street
     1962   and Bacon Alley, a distance of 193 feet, nine inches.
     9-6-   Closing the part of an old street or alley in the west part of the
458  1985   city lying between the lands of Wilmer T. (“Jack”) Lynn and Vergil
            Cobb.
474  3-5-   Closing Center Street in Fairview Subdivision from the east side of
     1987   North Street to the west side of Cross Street.
525  1-8-   Closing Gess Alley between South Madison Street and Cherry Alley.
     1991
527  3-5-   Closing Old Cherry Alley between West Adair Street and Lot 96.
     1991
556  10-5-  Closing an unnamed alley off Ford Street in the plat of Highlawn
     1993   Subdivision.
559  10-28- Closing a portion of Bacon Alley between East Perry and Blanton
     1993   Streets.
579  6-6-   Closing a portion of North Madison Street measuring 13 feet in width
     1995   and 17 feet from the existing back wall of the Courthouse.
610  11-3-  Closing a section of Parker Alley from old Bacon Alley to end.
     1998
673  5-13-  Closing a portion of Bacon Alley lying east of East Seminary Street to
     2008   Forsee Alley from South Main Street to Bacon Alley, previously closed.
     6-9-   A portion of Forsee Alley lying between the intersection of Thomas
676  2008   Street and South Madison Street, south of West Seminary Street shall
            be opened to two-way traffic.
 
TABLE VI: STREET NAME CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            (A)   The public thoroughfare in the city, now generally known as the Old Sparta
143  12-14- Road, beginning where it joins the intersection of North Adams Street and
     1936   Blanton Street, and running in a northwestern direction to the city limits,
            shall be designated as Pike Street.
            (B)   The public thoroughfare in the city, now officially known and designated
            on the plat of said city as Bryan Alley, beginning at the western boundary of
            the Marston Subdivision of the city, as shown on the plat of said subdivision,
          and running in an easterly direction through said subdivision, and into and
            across the original town plat, passing on the north side of the public square,
            to its intersection with Bacon Alley opposite the city school grounds, shall be
            known as Bryan Street.
            (C)   The public thoroughfare in the city, no officially known and designated as
            Van Alley, and beginning on the north of its intersection with Blanton Street,
          and running in a southerly direction, passing on the east side of the public
            square, to the southern boundary of lots 72 and 48 on the original southern
            boundary line of the city, as shown on the plat thereof, shall be designated as
            Court Street.
            (D)   The public thoroughfare in the city, now generally known as the Becks
            Ridge Road beginning at its intersection with South Adams Street between the
          lots of J.P. Sidebottom and Lora Kemper, and running in an easterly direction to
            its intersection with the present town boundary line, shall be designated as
            Becks Street.
            (E)   The public thoroughfare in the city, now generally known as Coon Alley,
          beginning at its intersection with Blanton Street and running in a northerly
            direction past Wood Alley, toward Pike Street, shall be designated as Lincoln
            Street.
            (A)   The public thoroughfare in the city, now generally known as Old Sparta
241  8-2-   Road, and sometimes as Pike Street, beginning at its intersection with North
     1954   Adams Street and Blanton Street, and running in a northwesterly direction to
            Roland Avenue, shall be designated as Rose Street.
            (B)   The public thoroughfare in the city, now generally known as Bryan Alley,
          beginning at the western boundary of Marston Subdivision, and running in an
            easterly direction to its intersection with Bacon Alley, shall be designated as
            Bryan Street.
            (C)   The public thoroughfare in the city, now generally known as Van Alley, and
          sometimes known as Court Street, beginning at its intersection with Rose Avenue,
            running in a southerly direction to the southern boundary of lots 72 and 48 in
            said city, shall be known as Thomas Street.
            (D)   The public thoroughfare in the city, now generally known as Becks Ridge
          Road, beginning at its intersection with South Adams Street and running in a
            southwesterly direction to its terminus, shall be designated as Beck Street.
            (E)    The public thoroughfare in the city, generally known as Cubbage Street or
          Slocum Road, beginning at its intersection with West Seminary Street, and
            running in a southerly direction to the city limits, shall be designated as
            Cubbage Avenue.
            (F)    The public thoroughfare in the city, generally known as a part of the
            Panther Lick Pike or Culpepper Pike, and beginning at its intersection with West
          Seminary Street, intersecting with South Adams Street on the west side thereof,
            just north of the present residence lot of Floyd Gaines, shall be designated as
            Gaines Avenue.
            (G)   The public thoroughfare in the city, intersecting with Blanton Street on
          the north side thereof, near Madison Street, and heretofore known as Jones Hill,
            Coon Alley, or Lincoln Street, shall be considered an extension of North Madison
            Street.
257  4-23-  Rose Avenue and that part of Adams Street extending south from Blanton Street to
     1958   the triangle shall be designated as Main Street.
            The public thoroughfares in the city beginning on the east side North Adams
     9-4-   Street between the properties of Mr. and Mrs. O.B. Hawkins and Bessie Mae Sparks
400  1979   and extending easterly approximately 175 feet hence extending northerly along
            the lots of Bessie G. Kells and others to the Owenton Sewer Plant No. 1 shall be
            designated as Carter Lane.
539  6-2-   (A)   A portion of U.S. Highway 127 from its northern intersection with Kentucky
     1992   Highway 22 to the city boundary shall be known as 127 South.
          (B)   A portion of Kentucky Highway 22 from its northern intersection with U.S.
            Highway 127 to the city boundary shall be known as South Main Street.
            (C)   A portion of Beck Street beginning at the westernmost corner of the
          sidewalk where the road turns north to Gaines Village to the city boundary shall
            be known as Gaines Village Drive.
           
 
TABLE VII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
            (A)    Rezoning property on the north by the land of E.S. Rose and the south end of
315  8-1-   Beck Street; On the east by the land of Miss Rose Hill and on the south and west by
     1967   the land of Foster Baker, said area being now part of the land owned by Foster
            Baker from Planned Development District to High Density Residential.
          (B)    Rezoning property beginning at the southeast corner of South Main Street and
            Forsee Alley from Low Density Residential to Commercial.
            (A)    Rezoning property beginning at the southeast corner of the Albert Thomas
353  10-12- lot, on the southwest side of South Main Street, known as 206 S. Main Street (now
     1972   A.D. Lusby), from Low Density Residential (R-1) to General Business (Commercial C-
            2).
            (B)    Rezoning that part of the property of Owen County Fair, Inc., located on the
            northeast side of North Main Street, consisting of the Exhibits Building, together
          with an area adjacent to same sufficient for the parking of employees working at a
            pilot plant for employee training, together with ingress and egress to and from
            North Main Street, being the same area now under lease to city from Planned
            Development District (F) to Light Industry (I).
            (C)   Rezoning:
               (1)    That group of lots which are collectively bounded on the northeast by
          North Main Street, on the south by Blenton Street, and on the west by North Thomas
            Street, from Low Density Residential (E-1) or Planned Development District (P) to
            General Business (C-2).
               (2)   That group of lots which are collectively bounded on the north by north
            Main Street, on the west by Gayle Avenue on the east by Locust Alley, and on the
          south by the south Line of Lot No. 21 in Block C of Parkway Addition to the city
            from Low Density Residential (E-1) or Planned Development District (P) to General
            Business (C-2).
               (3)    That group of lots on the northeast side of North Main Street owned by
            Mrs. Julia S. McBee, Are Lou and James W. White, Mable Plunkett heirs, Mrs. Grace
          Holbrook Hendrix, Max and Celia Rodin, Wm. H. and Kathleen Smith, Bertha Wolf heirs
            and Owen County Fair, Inc. from Low Density Residential (E-1) Or Planned
            Development District (P) to General Business (C-2).
            (A)    Zoning property on the north by the farm of C.L. Forsee, Sr.; on the east by
409  10-9-  John R. Clifton, Arvil J. and Pauline Shelton, Dorman Baldwin and Durwood Mefford;
     1980   on the south by the Howard Ellis Jr. Highway; and on the west by U.S. Highway No.
            227 as Light Industrial.
            (B)    Zoning property on the north by the Howard Ellis Jr. Highway; on the east by
          John R. Clifton, Arvil J. and Pauline Shelton, Dorman Baldwin and Durwood Mefford;
            on the south by the I.O.O.F. Cemetery; and on the west by U.S. Highway No. 227 as
            Low Density Residential.
     6-2-   Reclassifying the west two acres of the W. E. Walker property on East Adair Street
464  1986   from Low Density Residential (R-1) and Planned Development (P) to High Density
            Residential (R-2).
508  6-19-  Reclassifying lots 105, 104 and the south half of lot 103 from Low Density
     1989   Residential (R-1) to Central Business (C-1).
509  6-19-  Reclassifying lots 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 in the Marston Subdivision from Low
     1989   Density Residential (R-1) to Highway Density Residential (R-2).
            (A)    The property of Broadus Shryock, Bernard Poe, I.O.O.F. Lodge, Lillian
568  8-2-   Walker, Mefford’s Hardware, Inc., Jerry Stewart (now Sword), Jerry Stewart
     1994   (residence), Bobby Rose and Peoples Bank Trust Co. is to be classified as
            Commercial.
          (B)    The property of Owen County Industrial Development Corporation is to be
            classified as Industrial.
602  3-6-   Reclassifying certain property lying between South Main Street and East Adair
     1998   Street from Planned Development (P) to High Density Residential (R-2).
            (A)    The Zoning Map designation of four lots on the north end of Roland Avenue
624  2-1-   adjoining the property of the Epitome Health and Hospital Corporation is hereby
     2000   changed from R-1 (Residential) to C-2 (Commercial). The mailing addressed of said
            lots are designated as #326, #327, #329 and #333, Roland Avenue.
            (B)    The Zoning Map designation of a small parcel of real property on U.S.
            Highway 127 north adjoining the I.O.O.F. Cemetery is hereby changed from C-2
          (Commercial) to R-1 (Residential). Said property is described as 0.6 acre, more or
            less, lying on the east side of U.S. Highway 127 North and bounded on the north by
            the I.O.O.F Cemetery, on the south by Clements and on the west by said highway.
            The following property lying on and adjoining South Main Street is reclassified
            from Low Density Residential (R-1) and Planned Development (P) to High Density
            Residential (R-2). The boundary so re-classified is described as: A parcel of real
            estate situated on the west side of South Main Street in the city, being further
            bounded and described as follows: Beginning at an iron pin found, at the west edge
            of four-foot wide sidewalk on South Main Street, in the city, corner to Willie Poe,
            or record in Deed Book 177, page 504; thence with Poe line, S62-41-52W1 10.031 feet
            to an iron pin found, S41-20-22W5 3.42 feet to an iron pin found in an existing
632  9-6-   fence, S29-40-09E25 .871 feet to an iron pin found by a fence post, S36-02-43W73.12
     2001   feet to an iron pin found, corner to John Craigmyle, of record in Deed Book 190,
            page 365: Thence with Craigmyle line, S22-57-58W 105.137 feet to an iron pin found,
            corner to Glen Dulce, of record in Deed Book 193, page 680; thence with Dulce line,
            S22-57-58W 04.00 feet to an iron pin found, thence with a new line through the land
            of Fred Duke, et al., S22-57-58W 98.00 feet to an iron pin found, S56-05-13W
            399.597 feet to an iron pin found, corner of Aundis Davis, or record in Deed Book
            165, page 141; thence with same N15-36-07E 82.541 feet to a 20-inch Shaggy Bark
            Hickory found, a witness corner iron pin bears, S01-19-11E 48.394 feet to a 24-inch
            deed Cherry found, a witness corner iron pin bears.
645  7-12-  Rezoning 22-127 Intersection to C-2.
     2004
            Reclassifying certain property lying at the intersection of North Main Street and
            West Bryan Street from Low Density Residential (R-1) to Commercial (C-1). The
            boundary so re-classified is described as: A parcel of real estate situated on the
            west side of South Main Street in the city, being further bounded and described as
            follows: Beginning at an iron pin found, at the west edge of four foot wide
            sidewalk on South Main Street, in the City of Owenton, corner to Willie Poe, or
            record in Deed Book 177, page 504; thence with Poe line, S62-41-52W110.031 feet to
            an iron pin found, S41-20-22W53.42 feet to an iron pin found in an existing fence,
646  8-10-  S29-40-09E25 .871 feet to an iron pin found by a fence post, S36-02-43W7 3.12 feet
     2004   to an iron pin found, corner to John Craigmyle, of record in Deed Book 190, page
            365: Thence with Craigmyle line, S22-57-58W 105.137 feet to an iron pin found,
            corner to Glen Duke, of record in Deed Book 193, page 680; thence with Due line,
            S22-57-58W 04.00 feet to an iron pin found, thence with a new line through the land
            of Fred Duke, et al., S22-57-58W 98.00 feet to an iron pin found, S56-05-13W
            399.597 feet to an iron pin found, corner of Aundis Davis, or record in Deed Book
            165, page 141; thence with same N15-36-07E 82.541 feet to a 20 inch Shaggy Bark
            Hickory found, a witness corner iron pin bears, SOI-19-1 IE 48.394 feet to a 24
            inch deed Cherry found, a witness corner iron pin bears.
            Reclassifying from R-1 (Residential) to C-1 (Commercial) designation of the
            property as described below: The property which is rezoned is all that property
674  6-9-   designated as from 220 to 230 (inclusive) West Seminary Street, and which lies west
     2008   of Cherry Alley, south of Blanton Street and north of West Seminary Street in the
            city. The property is further described as parcels 2-2-8, 2-2-9 and 2-2-10 on the
            PVA Map of Owenton.
            Reclassifying from R-1 (Residential) to R-2 (High Density Residential) designation
     12-1-  of the property as described below: A parcel of property beginning at the northeast
686  2009   corner of Lot No. 49; thence west 137 feet to the fence; thence south 156 feet 6
            inches to an alley; thence south 137 feet to an alley; thence north to the
            beginning.
            Reclassifying certain property located at 311 South Main Street and being 2.24
            acres from Low Density Residential (R-1) to Commercial (C-1). The boundary so
            reclassified is described as: Being 2.224 acres and being bounded on the northeast
709  7-27-  by the Donald and Carolene Wright property and the Darrell and Janetta Keith
     2012   property; bounded on the southeast and continuing to the southwest by the R.C.
            Ford, Jr. Trust property; bounded on the northwest by the Hubert Hammond property,
            and the Joan D. Glass property and the James R. Ford property; then continuing
            260.59 feet along South Main Street.
           
 
TABLE VIII: AD VALOREM TAXATION
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
524  10-29- Establishing tax rates for 1990 at:
     1990
          (A)    $0.2829 on each $100 of assessed value of real property;
          (B)    $0.2829 on each $100 of assessed value of personal property; and
          (C)    $0.2260 on each $100 of assessed value of bank shares.
533  11-6-  Establishing tax rates for 1991 at:
     1991
          (A)    $0.2855 on each $100 of assessed value of real property;
          (B)    $0.3196 on each $100 of assessed value of personal property; and
          (C)    $0.2260 on each $100 of assessed value of bank shares.
570  11-15- Establishing tax rates for 1994 at:
     1994
          (A)   $0.2650 on each $100 assessed value of real property;
          (B)    $0.3458 on each $100 assessed value of personal property;
          (C)    $0.2260 on each $100 assessed value of bank shares; and
          (D)    $0.2829 on each $100 assessed value of vehicles.
583  10-3-  Establishing tax rates for 1995 at:
     1995
          (A)    $0.2494 on each $100 of assessed value of real property;
          (B)    $0.3197 on each $100 of assessed value of personal property;
          (C)    $0.2260 on each $100 of assessed value of bank shares; and
          (D)    $0.2829 on each $100 of assessed value of vehicles.
594  10-3-  Establishing tax rates for 1996 at:
     1996
          (A)    $0.2650 on each $100 of assessed value of real property;
          (B)    $0.3518 on each $100 of assessed value of personal property; and
          (C)    $0.289 on each $100 of assessed value of vehicles.
600  10-16- Establishing tax rates for 1997 at:
     1997
          (A)    $0.2690 on each $100 of assessed value of real property;
          (B)    $0.4347 on each $100 of assessed value of personal property; and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 of assessed value of vehicles.
608  10-12- Establishing tax rates for 1998 at:
     1998
          (A)    $0.2810 on each $100 of assessed value of real property;
          (B)    $0.3756 on each $100 of assessed value of personal property;
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 of assessed value of vehicles.
621  10-12- Establishing tax rates for 1999 at:
     1999
          (A)    $0.2740 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.2740 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
627  10-27- Establishing tax rates for 2000 at:
     2000
          (A)    $0.2610 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.3400 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
633  11-6-  Establishing tax rates for 2001 at:
     2001
          (A)    $0.2690 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.3750 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
638  10-11- Establishing tax rates for 2002 at:
     2002
          (A)    $0.2900 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.4330 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
642  10-7-  Establishing tax rates for 2003 at:
     2003
          (A)    $0.2910 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.3800 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
647  9-13-  Establishing tax rates for 2004 at:
     2004
          (A)    $0.2880 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.4160 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
655  11-1-  Establishing tax rates for 2005 at:
     2005
          (A)    $0.3050 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.4600 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
667  10-16- Establishing tax rates for 2006 at:
     2006
          (A)    $0.3160 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.4090 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
670  10-9-  Establishing tax rates for 2007 at:
     2007
          (A)    $0.3090 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.2770 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
678  10-7-  Establishing tax rates for 2008 at:
     2008
          (A)    $0.3160 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.3338 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
685  10-2-  Establishing tax rates for 2009 at:
     2009
          (A)    $0.3260 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.4690 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
689  10-14- Establishing tax rates for 2010 at:
     2010
          (A)    $0.2920 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B) $0.3390 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and   
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
701  10-4-  Establishing tax rates for 2011 at:
     2011
          (A)    $0.2880 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.2920 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
713  9-24-  Establishing tax rates for 2012 at:
     2012
          (A)    $0.2920 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.2730 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
735  10-1-  Establishing tax rates for 2013 at:
     2013
          (A)    $0.2790 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.2200 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
742  10-14- Establishing tax rates for 2014 at:
     2014
          (A)    $0.2820 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.1980 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
752  10-29- Establishing tax rates for 2015 at:
     2015
          (A)    $0.2820 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.1780 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
754  11-4-  Establishing tax rates for 2016 at:
     2016
          (A)    $0.2770 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.1170 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
757  10-12- Establishing tax rates for 2017 at:
     2017
          (A)    $0.2760 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.1180 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
759  10-11- Establishing tax rates for 2018 at:
     2018
          (A)    $0.289 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.146 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
766  10-10- Establishing tax rates for 2019 at:
     2019
          (A)    $0.308 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.498 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
767  11-19- Establishing tax rates for 2020 at:
     2020
          (A)    $0.327 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.429 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
769  10-20- Establishing tax rates for 2021 at:
     2021
          (A)    $0.322 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.446 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
774  10-14- Establishing tax rates for 2022 at:
     2022
          (A)    $0.322 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
          (B)    $0.395 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            and
          (C)    $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
            Establishing tax rates for 2023 at:
785  9-26-  (A)   $0.321 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
     2023   (B)   $0.409 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            (C)   $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
            Establishing tax rates for 2024 at:
792  8-27-  (A)   $0.315 on each $100 worth of real property at its fair cash value;
     2024   (B)   $0.447 on each $100 worth of personal property at its fair cash value;
            (C)   $0.2829 on each $100 worth of vehicles at its fair cash value.
           
 
TABLE IX: PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishing salaries of Police Department; City Clerk-
575      1-9-1975    Treasurer; part-time office worker; and maintenance
                     person. (Repealed by Ord. 589)
                     Establishing salaries of Police Department; City Clerk-
589      1-2-1996    Treasurer; part-time office worker; and maintenance
                     person. (Repealed by Ord. 595)
                     Establishing salaries of Police Department; City Clerk-
595      1-7-1997    Treasurer; part-time office worker; and maintenance
                     person. (Repealed by Ord. 601)
599      9-2-1997    Establishing salary of patrolman. (Repealed by Ord. 601)
                     Establishing salaries of Police Department; City Clerk-
601      1-6-1998    Treasurer; part-time office worker; and maintenance
                     person. (Repealed by Ord. 611)
605      8-4-1998    Establishing salary of part-time office clerk. (Repealed
                     by Ord. 611)
607      10-6-1998   Designating Rick Morgan as Director of Emergency
                     Management.
                     Establishing salaries of Police Department; City Clerk-
611      1-5-1999    Treasurer; part-time office worker; and maintenance
                     person.
612      4-6-1999    Establishing salary of patrolman.
                     Establishing compensation plan, (including authorized
635      3-5-2002    positions and salary scale) and classification plan be
                     adopted by reference.
668      6-11-2007   Establishing 2007-2008 fiscal year salary scale.
696      7-27-2011   Establishing salary of patrolman.
751      7-7-2015    Establishing and adopting a salary scale for city
                     employees.
780      6-8-2023    Replacing Ord. 751 and adopting a salary guideline for
                     city employees.
790      8-8-2024    Amending Ord. 780 and adopting a salary guideline for city
                     employees.
796      3-13-2025   Amending Ord. 688 and establishing salary of Fire Chief.
800      6-19-2025   Amending Ord. 796 and establishing salary of Fire Chief.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Cites Code Section
KRS Cites                    Code Section
6.050                        32.43
6.955 through 6.975          33.04
13A                          92.02
13B                          92.06
18A                          114.03
18A.225(2)                   114.03
18A.228                      114.03
39A through 39F              40.01,
                             40.05
39A.010                      40.03
42.450 through 42.495        33.04
45A                          35.15
56                           35.15
61.805 through 61.850        35.20
61.805 through 61.991        32.16
61.805(1)                    35.01
61.805(2)                    35.01
61.805(3)                    35.01
61.805(4)                    35.01
61.805(5)                    35.01
61.810                       35.15,
                             39.076
61.815                       35.16
61.820                       35.17,
                             35.19
61.823                       35.18,
                             35.19
61.823(4)                    35.19
61.826                       35.19
61.840                       35.19
61.846                       35.20
61.848                       35.20
61.870                       34.01
                             34.15,
                             34.27,
61.870 through 61.884        39.073,
                             39.079,
                             39.080
61.872 through 61.884        39.020
61.872(4)                    34.16
61.872(5)                    34.17
61.872(6)                    34.18
61.874(1) through (3)        34.22
61.874(3)                    34.23
61.874(4)                    34.23
61.874(5)                    34.24
61.874(6)                    34.25
61.878                       34.01,
                             34.26
61.878(1)                    34.26
61.878(1)(m)                 35.15
61.880                       34.19
61.884                       34.21
62.020                       31.01
62.040                       36.016,
                             36.017
62.060                       31.01
65.003                       39.003
65.8801 through 65.8839      36.106,
                             36.115
65.8811                      36.107
65.8835                      36.113
67.093(7)                    94.02
78.510(21)                   38.02
78.510 through 78.990        38.02
82.082                       39.003
83A.010(5)                   10.02
83A.010(6)                   10.02
83A.010(8)                   10.02
83A.030(1)                   30.02
83A.040(1)                   31.16
83A.040(2)                   31.16
83A.040(2)(c)                31.16
83A.040(2)(d)                31.16
83A.040(3)                   31.16
83A.040(4)                   32.01
83A.040(5)                   32.01
83A.040(6)                   31.16,
                             32.02
83A.040(7)                   31.16,
                             32.02
83A.040(8)                   31.16,
                             32.02
83A.040(9)                   31.03
83A.050                      31.15
83A.060(1)                   32.30
83A.060(2)                   32.31
83A.060(3)                   32.32
83A.060(4)                   32.33
83A.060(5)                   32.35
83A.060(7)                   32.33
83A.060(8)                   32.36,
                             32.37
83A.060(9)                   32.38
83A.060(10)                  32.39
83A.060(11)                  32.40
83A.060(12)                  32.41
83A.060(13)                  32.41
83A.060(14)                  32.42
83A.060(15)                  32.43
83A.065                      10.99
83A.070                      31.02
83A.075                      31.02
83A.080                      39.004
83A.080(1)                   31.30
83A.080(2)                   31.30
83A.080(3)                   31.03,
                             31.15
83A.080(4)                   31.15
83A.085                      31.31
83A.130                      31.16
83A.130(1)                   30.01
83A.130(2)                   30.02
83A.130(3)                   31.16
83A.130(4)                   31.16
83A.130(5)                   32.15
83A.130(6)                   32.34
83A.130(7)                   31.16
83A.130(8)                   31.16
83A.130(9)                   31.16
83A.130(10)                  31.16
83A.130(11)                  32.03,
                             32.16
83A.130(12)                  32.03
83A.130(13)                  32.03
83A.170                      31.15
83A.175                      32.02
91A.010(4)                   10.02
91A.010(6)                   33.01
91A.010(7)                   33.01
91A.010(8)                   10.02
91A.020                      33.02
91A.041                      33.04
91A.050                      33.04
91A.060                      33.05
91A.200                      33.21
91A.210                      33.20
91A.220                      33.21
91A.230                      33.22
91A.240                      33.23
91A.250                      33.24
91A.260                      33.24
91A.270                      33.26
91A.280                      33.27
91A.290                      33.28
92                           37.61
95                           36.017,
                             36.019
95.440                       36.016
95.019                       36.016
95.440                       36.016
97                           36.090
97.010                       36.085
97.010 through 97.050        36.085
100                          36.045,
                             36.050
100.147                      36.046
131.010(6)                   114.04
132.010(9)(a)                90.07
132.012(1)(d)                37.60
132.285                      37.03
134.121                      37.16
136                          115.01
136.120                      110.22
136.500(10)                  115.01
139.200                      92.03
154                          34.26
174.100                      153.35
174.100(1)                   153.36
174.100(2)                   153.37
174.100(3)                   153.37
174.100(4)                   153.38
174.100(5)                   153.39
174.100(6)                   153.40
174.100(7)                   153.40
177.042                      153.41
177.043                      153.41
186.043                      91.17
186.560                      71.35
189.010(19)                  70.01
189.020                      71.37
189.286                      73.15
189.286(1)(a)                73.15
189.290                      71.35
189.330(8)                   71.02
189.338                      70.20
189.378                      71.99,
                             74.01
189.378(1)                   70.01
189.394                      71.99
189.450(5)                   72.03
189.450(6)                   72.03
189.580                      71.20
189.635(9)(b)1.a. through e. 34.01
189.725                      72.08
189.820                      73.15
189.910                      74.01
189.920                      74.01
189.930                      71.36
                             70.99,
189.990(1)                   71.99,
                             72.99
189.993(8)                   71.99
198B                         150.05
198B.060(8)                  150.01
198B.070                     150.05
198B.990(1)                  150.99
218B.010                     119.01
226.010                      112.01
226.020                      112.02
226.030                      112.07
226.040                      112.03
226.050                      112.04
226.060                      112.08
226.070                      112.03
226.080                      112.05
226.090                      112.06
226.100                      112.08
226.990(1)                   112.99
226.990(3)                   112.99
227.330(6)                   92.03
227.700 through 227.750      92.01,
                             92.06
227.702                      92.01
227.704                      92.01
227.706                      92.01
227.708                      92.01
227.710                      92.02
227.715                      92.02,
                             92.03
227.720                      92.04
227.730                      92.05
227.750                      92.06
227.990(1)                   150.99
227.990(4)                   92.99
241.180                      117.02
241.190                      117.02
241.200                      117.05
242.185                      117.01,
                             117.02
243                          110.22
243 et seq.                  117.01,
                             117.02
243.034                      117.01,
                             117.02
243.070                      117.02,
                             117.06
243.070(1)(k)                117.02
243.157                      117.40
257.100                      90.06
257.100(4)                   90.01
281                          72.26
304.39-080                   73.15
318.990                      150.23
342                          114.03
376.275(1)                   72.26
376.275(2)                   72.26
376.275(3)                   72.27
                             32.38,
424                          33.04,
                             33.24
424.120                      33.04
424.190(2)                   33.04
424.220                      33.04
424.240                      33.03
436.600                      90.04,
                             90.99
446.010(1)                   10.02
446.010(2)                   10.02
446.010(9)                   10.02
446.010(10)                  10.02
446.010(12)                  10.02
446.010(13)                  10.02
446.010(14)                  10.02
446.010(15)                  10.02
446.010(17)                  10.02
446.010(18)                  10.02
446.010(23)                  10.02
446.010(25)                  10.02
446.010(26)                  10.02
446.010(27)                  10.02
446.010(28)                  10.02
446.010(30)                  10.02
446.010(31)                  10.02
446.010(33)                  10.02
446.010(37)                  10.02
446.010(39)                  10.02
446.010(43)                  10.02
446.010(46)                  10.02
446.010(47)                  10.02
446.010(49)                  10.02
446.010(55)                  10.02
446.020(1)                   10.03
446.020(2)                   10.03
446.030                      10.04
446.050                      10.05
446.060                      10.06
446.080(1)                   10.03
446.080(3)                   10.03
446.080(4)                   10.03
446.090                      10.07
446.100                      10.08
446.110                      10.09
446.140                      10.01
Ch. 507                      118.09
Ch. 508                      118.09
522.040                      94.14
Ch. 525                      118.09
525.125                      90.03
525.130                      90.03,
                             90.99
Ch. 530                      118.09
534.040                      10.99
610                          130.01
610.180                      130.99
610.200                      130.01
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code         2022 Code
10.99              10.99
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
31.01              31.01
31.02              31.02
31.03              31.03
31.20              31.15
31.21              31.16
31.22              31.17
31.23              31.18
31.35              31.30
31.36              31.31
31.37              31.32
31.38              31.33
31.39              31.34
32.01              32.01
32.02              32.02
32.03              32.03
32.20              32.15
32.21              32.16
32.22              32.17
32.35              32.30
32.36              32.31
32.37              32.32
32.38              32.33
32.39              32.34
32.40              32.35
32.41              32.36
32.42              32.37
32.43              32.38
32.44              32.39
32.45              32.40
32.46              32.41
32.47              32.42
32.48              32.43
33.01              33.01
33.02              33.02
33.03              33.03
33.04              33.04
33.05              33.05
33.06              33.06
33.07              33.07
33.10              33.20
33.11              33.21
33.12              33.22
33.13              33.23
33.14              33.24
33.15              33.25
33.16              33.26
33.17              33.27
33.18              33.28
34.01              34.01
34.05              34.15
34.06              34.16
34.07              34.17
34.08              34.18
34.09              34.19
34.10              34.20
34.11              34.21
34.12              34.22
34.13              34.23
34.14              34.24
34.15              34.25
34.16              34.26
34.17              34.27
34A.01             35.01
34A.05             35.15
34A.06             35.16
34A.07             35.17
34A.08             35.18
34A.09             35.19
34A.10             35.20
35.01              36.015
35.02              36.016
35.03              36.017
35.04              36.018
35.05              36.019
35.15              36.030
35.16              36.031
35.17              36.032
36.01              36.045
36.02              36.046
36.03              36.047
36.04              36.048
36.05              36.049
36.06              36.050
36.20              36.065
36.21              36.066
36.22              36.067
36.23              36.068
36.24              36.069
36.25              36.070
36.26              36.071
36.27              36.072
36.35              36.001
37.01              37.01
37.02              37.02
37.03              37.03
37.04              37.04
37.05              37.05
37.06              37.06
37.07              37.07
37.08              37.08
37.09              37.09
37.10              37.10
37.11              37.11
37.12              37.12
37.13              37.13
37.14              37.14
37.15              37.15
37.16              37.16
37.17              37.17
37.30              37.30
37.31              37.31
37.32              37.32
37.33              37.33
37.34              37.34
37.35              37.35
37.36              37.36
37.37              37.37
37.38              37.38
37.39              37.39
37.40              37.40
37.41              37.41
37.42              37.42
38.01              38.01
39.01              39.001
39.02              39.002
39.03              39.003
39.04              39.004
39.10              39.015
39.11              39.016
39.12              39.017
39.13              39.018
39.14              39.019
39.15              39.020
39.16              39.021
39.17              39.022
39.20              39.035
39.21              39.036
39.22              39.037
39.23              39.038
39.24              39.039
39.25              39.040,
                   39.999
39.30              39.055
39.40              39.070
39.41              39.071
39.42              39.072
39.43              39.073
39.44              39.074
39.45              39.075
39.46              39.076
39.47              39.077
39.48              39.078
39.49              39.079
39.50              39.080
39.99              39.999
40.01              40.01
40.02              40.02
40.03              40.03
40.04              40.04
40.05              40.05
51.01              50.01
51.02              50.02
51.03              50.03
51.04              50.04
51.05              50.05
51.15              50.20
51.16              50.21
51.17              50.22
51.18              50.23
51.19              50.24
51.20              50.25
51.21              50.26
51.22              50.27
51.23              50.28
51.24              50.29
51.25              50.30
51.26              50.31
51.27              50.32
51.28              50.33
51.29              50.34
51.30              50.35
51.31              50.36
51.32              50.37
51.33              50.38
51.50              51.01
51.51              51.02
51.52              51.03
51.53              51.04
51.54              51.05
51.55              51.06
51.56              51.07
51.57              51.08
51.58              51.09
51.99              50.99,
                   51.99
70.01              70.01
70.02              70.02
70.03              70.03
70.04              70.04
70.05              70.05
70.15              70.20
70.16              70.21
70.17              70.22
70.18              70.24
70.19              70.24
70.20              70.25
70.21              70.26
70.99              70.99
71.01              71.01
71.02              71.02
71.03              71.03
71.04              71.04
71.05              71.05
71.15              71.20
71.16              71.21
71.25              71.35
71.26              71.36
71.27              71.37
71.28              71.38
71.35              74.01
71.40              74.15
71.41              74.16
71.42              74.17
71.43              74.18
71.44              74.19
71.45              74.20
71.46              74.21
71.47              74.22
71.48              74.23
71.49              74.24
71.50              74.25
71.51              74.26
71.99              71.99
72.01              72.01
72.02              72.02
72.03              72.03
72.04              72.04
72.05              72.05
72.06              72.06
72.07              72.07
72.08              72.08
72.09              72.09
72.10              72.10
72.11              72.11
72.12              72.12
72.13              72.13
72.14              72.14
72.20              72.25
72.21              72.26
72.22              72.27
72.35              72.40
72.36              72.41
72.37              72.42
72.50              72.55
72.99              72.99
73.01              73.01
73.02              73.02
73.03              73.03
73.04              73.04
73.99              73.99
Ch. 74, Sched. I   Ch. 75, Sched. I
Ch. 75, Sched. I   Ch. 76, Sched. I
Ch. 75, Sched. II  Ch. 76, Sched. II
Ch. 75, Sched. III Ch. 76, Sched. III
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.04              90.04
90.05              90.05
90.06              90.06
90.15              90.20
90.16              90.21
90.17              90.22
90.18              90.23
90.19              90.24
90.20              90.25
90.21              90.26
90.22              90.27
90.23              90.28
90.99              90.99
91.01              153.15
91.02              153.16
91.03              153.17
91.04              153.18
91.05              153.19
91.06              153.20
91.15              153.35
91.16              153.36
91.17              153.37
91.18              153.38
91.19              153.39
91.20              153.40
91.21              153.41
91.30              153.55
91.31              153.56
91.32              153.57
91.33              153.58
91.99              153.99
93.01              92.01
93.02              92.02
93.03              92.03
93.04              92.04
93.05              92.05
93.06              92.06
93.20              92.20
93.21              92.21
93.35              94.01
93.36              94.02
93.37              94.03
93.38              94.04
93.39              94.05
93.40              94.06
93.41              94.07
93.42              94.08
93.43              94.09
93.44              94.10
93.45              94.11
93.46              94.12
93.47              94.13
93.48              94.14
93.49              94.15
93.50              94.16
93.51              94.17
93.99              92.99,
                   94.99
94.01              93.01
94.02              93.02
94.03              93.03
94.04              93.04
94.05              93.05
94.06              93.06
94.99              93.99
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.03             110.03
110.04             110.04
110.05             110.05
110.06             110.06
110.07             110.07
110.08             110.08
110.09             110.09
110.99             110.99
111.01             111.01
111.02             111.02
111.03             111.03
111.04             111.04
111.05             111.05
111.06             111.06
111.07             111.07
111.08             111.08
111.99             111.99
112.01             112.01
112.02             112.02
112.03             112.03
112.04             112.04
112.05             112.05
112.06             112.06
112.07             112.07
112.08             112.08
112.99             112.99
113.01             113.01
113.02             113.02
113.03             113.03
113.04             113.04
113.05             113.05
113.06             113.06
113.07             113.07
113.08             113.08
113.09             113.09
113.10             113.10
113.11             113.11
114.01             114.01
114.02             114.02
114.03             114.03
114.04             114.04
114.05             114.05
115.01             115.01
115.02             115.02
115.03             115.03
115.04             115.04
115.99             115.99
130.01             130.01
130.99             130.99
150.01             150.01
150.02             150.03
150.03             150.04
150.04             150.05
150.15             150.20
150.16             150.21
150.17             150.22
150.18             150.23
150.99             150.99
151.01             151.01
152.01             152.01
152.02             152.02
152.03             152.03
152.04             152.04
152.05             152.05
152.06             152.06
152.07             152.07
152.08             152.08
152.09             152.09
152.99             152.99
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
163      - -         36.032
162      - -         36.031
2        9-3-1907    32.17
40       9-3-1907    33.07
72       5-4-1915    TSO Table IV
73       5-4-1915    TSO Table IV
74       5-4-1915    TSO Table IV
75       5-4-1915    TSO Table IV
76       5-4-1915    TSO Table IV
77       5-4-1915    TSO Table IV
78       5-7-1915    TSO Table IV
79       5-7-1915    TSO Table IV
80       5-7-1915    TSO Table IV
81       5-7-1915    TSO Table IV
82       5-7-1915    TSO Table IV
83       5-17-1915   TSO Table IV
84       9-3-1915    71.38
130      1-27-1934   72.03
132      11-5-1934   36.065 -
                     36.072
134      6-3-1935    Ch. 76, Sched. III
                     152.01 -
152      6-6-1936    152.08,
                     152.99
143      12-14-1936  TSO Table VI
150      3-8-1938    72.03
157      1-4-1939    36.015
78       9-12-1941   Ch. 76, Sched. I
196      10-7-1946   Ch. 76, Sched. II
227      9-4-1951    TSO Table I
236      6-25-1953   71.05
241      8-2-1954    TSO Table VI
243      9-6-1954    71.05
244      9-6-1954    TSO Table II
257      4-23-1958   TSO Table VI
                     150.20 -
258      4-23-1958   150.23,
                     150.99
276      12-4-1962   TSO Table V
285      5-25-1964   Ch. 76, Sched. I
288      10-1-1964   TSO Table II
289      5-4-1965    Ch. 76, Sched. II
290      5-4-1965    72.03
134      6-3-1965    72.55
292      9-7-1965    154.01
299      5-10-1966   Ch. 76, Sched. I
304      12-6-1966   36.045 -
                     36.050
307      3-7-1967    36.046
315      8-1-1967    TSO Table VII
                     37.01 -
317      9-5-1967    37.17,
                     37.30 -
                     37.42
333      9-2-1969    150.22
344      5-4-1971    Ch. 75, Sched. I
                     93.01 -
348      3-7-1972    93.06,
                     93.99
349      5-30-1972   151.01
353      10-12-1972  TSO Table VII
358      3-6-1973    Ch. 76, Sched. I
198      1-7-1974    153.41
365      5- -1974    33.03
575      1-9-1975    TSO Table IX
380      6-21-1977   32.16
381      9-6-1977    31.16
382      9-6-1977    31.31
383      9-6-1977    32.01
394      11-14-1978  TSO Table I
                     37.37,
374      12-9-1978   37.38,
                     37.40,
                     37.42
395      2-6-1979    31.32
396      4-3-1979    36.046
397      4-3-1979    154.01
400      9-4-1979    TSO Table VI
403      10-2-1979   Ch. 76, Sched. I
409      10-9-1980   TSO Table VII
416      2-25-1981   31.15
417      6-3-1981    Ch. 76, Sched. I
425      4-26-1982   32.15
427      4-26-1982   31.32
429      4-26-1982   36.015
430      4-26-1982   36.017
431      4-26-1982   31.34
433      4-26-1982   36.030
436      8-3-1982    31.32
443      5-4-1983    Ch. 76, Sched. I
448      2-7-1984    TSO Table I
449      3-6-1984    36.015,
                     36.017
450      5-1-1984    72.03
453      12-4-1984   72.03
458      9-6-1985    TSO Table V
461      4-1-1986    TSO Table III
462      4-1-1986    Ch. 75, Sched. I
464      6-2-1986    TSO Table VII
471      3-3-1987    TSO Table I
474      3-5-1987    TSO Table V
475      3-5-1987    72.03
477      5-11-1987   TSO Table IV
                     90.20 -
479      7-14-1987   90.28,
                     90.99
480      9-1-1987    72.13
481      9-1-1987    151.01
486      12-2-1987   150.99
486-1    12-2-1987   150.03
489      4-5-1988    31.16,
                     31.32
490      4-5-1988    31.31
491      4-6-1988    36.030
                     51.01 -
492      4-6-1988    51.09,
                     51.99
                     50.01 -
498      5-24-1988   50.04,
                     50.21 -
                     50.38
505      3-12-1989   TSO Table I
508      6-19-1989   TSO Table VII
509      6-19-1989   TSO Table VII
                     110.01 -
514      12-13-1989  110.09,
                     110.99
516      2-6-1990    36.016 -
                     36.018
518      4-3-1990    154.01
520      7-3-1990    150.03
521      7-3-1990    31.31
522      7-3-1990    154.01
523      8-7-1990    31.31,
                     38.01
524      10-29-1990  TSO Table VIII
525      1-8-1991    TSO Table V
527      3-5-1991    TSO Table V
532      10-14-1991  TSO Table III
533      11-6-1991   TSO Table VIII
534      11-6-1991   110.99
539      6-2-1992    TSO Table VI
540      7-21-1992   72.99
541      9-1-1992    113.01 -
                     113.11
544      12-10-1992  31.15
546      3-2-1993    Ch. 76, Sched. I
547      3-2-1993    Ch. 75, Sched. I
548      3-2-1993    Ch. 75, Sched. I
555      9-7-1993    36.019
556      10-5-1993   TSO Table V
557      10-28-1993  TSO Table III
559      10-28-1993  TSO Table V
560      11-9-1993   Ch. 76, Sched. I
561      12-13-1993  TSO Table I
563      6-7-1994    TSO Table I
567      8-2-1994    32.16
568      8-2-1994    TSO Table VII
569      8-2-1994    TSO Table I
570      11-15-1994  TSO Table VII
                     39.001 -
                     39.004,
                     39.015 -
                     39.022,
571      12-6-1994   39.035 -
                     39.040,
                     39.055,
                     39.070 -
                     39.080,
                     39.999
576      1-9-1995    36.030
577      5-2-1995    72.25
579      6-6-1995    TSO Table V
583      10-3-1995   TSO Table VIII
584      10-19-1995  TSO Table I
587      10-30-1995  TSO Table III
588      11-7-1995   TSO Table II
589      1-2-1996    TSO Table IX
                     94.01 -
590      2-6-1996    94.17,
                     94.99
592      8-6-1996    72.14,
                     72.99
                     115.01 -
593      9-3-1996    115.04,
                     115.99
594      10-3-1996   TSO Table VIII
595      1-7-1997    TSO Table IX
596      1-7-1997    71.05
599      9-2-1997    TSO Table IX
600      10-16-1997  TSO Table VIII
601      1-6-1998    TSO Table IX
602      3-6-1998    154.01,
                     TSO Table VII
605      8-4-1998    TSO Table IX
606      9-1-1998    31.32
607      10-6-1998   40.02,
                     TSO Table IX
608      10-12-1998  TSO Table VIII
609      10-13-1998  TSO Table III
610      11-3-1998   TSO Table V
611      1-5-1999    TSO Table IX
612      4-6-1999    TSO Table IX
613      4-6-1999    31.16
614      4-6-1999    32.01
                     40.01,
617      6-1-1999    40.03 -
                     40.05
619      10-5-1999   50.20
621      10-12-1999  TSO Table VIII
622      10-12-1999  37.13
624      2-1-2000    TSO Table VIII
627      10-27-2000  TSO Table VIII
632      9-6-2001    TSO Table VII
633      11-6-2001   TSO Table VIII
                     52.001 -
                     52.003,
                     52.015 -
                     52.019,
                     52.030,
                     52.031,
                     52.045,
                     52.046,
                     52.060 -
634      3-5-2002    52.068,
                     52.080 -
                     52.091,
                     52.105,
                     52.106,
                     52.120 -
                     52.123,
                     52.135 -
                     52.138,
                     52.999
635      3-5-2002    TSO Table IX
636      4-2-2002    36.085 -
                     36.090
638      10-11-2002  TSO Table VIII
640      5-8-2003    38.02
642      10-13-2003  TSO Table VIII
645      7-12-2004   TSO Table VII
646      8-10-2004   TSO Table VII
647      9-13-2004   TSO Table VIII
648      11-8-2004   150.01
650      5-3-2005    50.05
651      6-7-2005    150.02
654      8-2-2005    36.030
655      11-1-2005   TSO Table VIII
656      12-6-2005   153.01
657      12-6-2005   150.03
658      12-7-2005   40.06
667      10-16-2006  TSO Table VIII
668      6-11-2007   TSO Table IX
670      10-9-2007   TSO Table VIII
671      10-9-2007   36.033
                     110.20 -
672      5-6-2008    110.31,
                     110.99
673      5-13-2008   TSO Table V
674      6-9-2008    TSO Table VII
676      6-9-2008    TSO Table V
678      10-7-2008   TSO Table VIII
679      10-7-2008   TSO Table I
680      10-14-2008  130.01,
                     130.99
681      5-12-2009   36.105 -
                     36.115
                     91.01 -
                     91.03,
                     91.15 -
                     91.17,
682      5-12-2009   91.30 -
                     91.34,
                     91.50 -
                     91.55,
                     91.99
683      8-4-2009    91.34
684      9-1-2009    TSO Table III
685      10-2-2009   TSO Table VIII
686      12-1-2009   TSO Table VII
688      10-5-2010   36.030
689      10-14-2010  TSO Table VIII
690      11-18-2010  TSO Table III
691      12-20-2010  TSO Table III
694      6-7-2011    90.26,
                     90.99
696      7-27-2011   TSO Table IX
697      10-4-2011   90.07,
                     90.99
701      10-4-2011   TSO Table VIII
702      11-1-2011   91.34
703      1-3-2012    91.16
704      3-6-2012    110.09
706      3-12-2012   91.18,
                     91.99
708      7-10-2012   154.01
709      7-27-2012   TSO Table VII
710      9-24-2012   32.01
713      9-24-2012   TSO Table VIII
714      12-4-2012   154.01
715      1-8-2013    TSO Table I
716      1-8-2013    TSO Table I
717      1-8-2013    TSO Table I
718      1-8-2013    TSO Table I
719      1-8-2013    TSO Table I
721      5-7-2013    TSO Table I
722      5-7-2013    TSO Table I
723      5-7-2013    TSO Table I
724      5-7-2013    TSO Table I
725      5-7-2013    TSO Table I
729      5-29-2013   TSO Table I
730      5-29-2013   TSO Table I
731      5-29-2013   TSO Table I
732      5-29-2013   TSO Table I
733      5-29-2013   TSO Table I
728      6-4-2013    72.99
735      10-1-2013   TSO Table VIII
734      11-5-2013   116.01,
                     116.99
736      1- -2014    73.15,
                     73.99
738      4-28-2014   31.16
741      9-2-2014    151.02
742      10-14-2014  TSO Table VIII
743      10-14-2014  Ch. 75, Sched. II
744      10-14-2014  TSO Table I
746      12-2-2014   110.09
                     117.01 -
747      3-3-2015    117.05,
                     117.99
                     117.20 -
748      3-3-2015    117.23,
                     117.99
749      6-2-2015    TSO Table II
751      7-7-2015    TSO Table IX
752      10-29-2015  TSO Table VIII
754      11-4-2016   TSO Table VIII
757      10-12-2017  TSO Table VIII
759      10-11-2018  TSO Table VIII
760      1-8-2019    Ch. 75, Sched. I
762      4-2-2019    110.09
763      4-2-2019    32.16
766      10-10-2019  TSO Table VIII
767      11-19-2020  TSO Table VIII
769      10-20-2021  TSO Table VIII
770      1-4-2022    110.22,
                     110.25
771      2-1-2022    32.16
772      5-12-2022   117.06,
                     117.99
774      10-14-2022  TSO Table VIII
775      1-19-2023   153.59,
                     153.99
776      12-15-2022  90.07,
                     90.99
777      1-23-2023   Adopting Ordinance
779      5-11-2023   38.03
780      6-8-2023    TSO Table IX
                     118.01 -
782      8-10-2023   118.14,
                     118.99
                     117.01 -
783      8-17-2023   117.05,
                     117.99
784      8-17-2023   117.06,
                     117.99
785      9-26-2023   TSO Table VIII
787      1-11-2024   150.02,
                     150.03
790      8-8-2024    TSO Table IX
791      - -2024     150.06
792      8-27-2024   TSO Table VIII
793      9-12-2024   119.01,
                     119.02
794      12-12-2024  38.03
795      1-3-2025    117.40,
                     117.41
796      3-13-2025   TSO Table IX
797      3-13-2025   37.60,
                     37.61
798      5-8-2025    117.40,
                     117.41
800      6-19-2025   TSO Table IX
                    
 
