OWINGSVILLE, KENTUCKY
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 6-2022, passed 4-11-2022
State legislation current through KRS Pamphlet 2021
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
OWINGSVILLE, KENTUCKY
COUNCIL
COUNCILMEMBER              ANGIE BUCKLER
COUNCILMEMBER              RHONDA HATTON
COUNCILMEMBER              JACKIE ANDERSON
COUNCILMEMBER              CHRIS CROCKETT
COUNCILMEMBER              STEVE BASHFORD
COUNCILMEMBER              KAREN RATLIFF
                           
CITY OFFICIALS
MAYOR                      GARY HUNT
CLERK/TREASURER            CATHY CONWAY
WATER/SEWER SUPERINTENDENT STEVE FAUDERE
CHIEF OF POLICE            TODD TOUT
CITY ATTORNEY              EARL ROGERS III
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 9—1988
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING, ADOPTING AND ENACTING THE CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF THE
CITY OF OWINGSVILLE, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, the City of Owingsville is authorized by KRS 83A.060(5) to adopt a
codification of local legislation by reference; and
   WHEREAS, the City of Owingsville has created a codification of legislation
covering the following subjects:
      Title I:      General Provisions
      Title III:   Administration
      Title V:   Public Works
      Title VII:   Traffic Code
      Title IX:   General Regulations
      Title XI:   Business Regulations
      Title XIII:   General Offenses
      Title XV:   Land Usage
      TSO:      Tables of Special Ordinances
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY OF OWINGSVILE, KENTUCKY, as follows:
   (1)   That the ordinances of the City of Owingsville, Kentucky, of a general
and permanent nature, as prepared by the American Legal Publishing Co. and
copyrighted 1988 and as attached hereto and made a part of this ordinance as if
fully copied herein, are hereby approved, adopted, and enacted as the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Owingsville, Kentucky.
   (2)   A copy of the Code of Ordinances, as adopted, shall accompany this
ordinance and shall be made a part of the permanent records of the City
pursuant to KRS 83A.060(5).
   (3)   The Codified Ordinances contain all of the provisions of a general and
permanent nature pertaining to the subjects therein enumerated and embraced.
All prior ordinances and parts of ordinances in force on August 8, 1988 which
are incorporated in or pertain to the subject enumerated and embraced in this
Code of Ordinances are hereby repealed prospectively as of August 8, 1988.
   (4)   The repeal of ordinances as provided in section (3) hereof, however,
shall not affect:
      (a)   Any ordinance of a temporary nature, or any ordinance pertaining to
subjects not enumerated and embraced in the Code of Ordinances;
      (b)   Any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before August 8,
1988;
      (c)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money to or by the City, authorizing the issuance of any bonds or notes of
the City, or any other evidence of City indebtedness, or any contract or
obligation assumed by the City;
      (d)   Any right or franchise conferred by any ordinance or resolution to
any person or corporation:
      (e)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes, assessments, or charges;
      (f)   Any prosecution, suit, or other proceeding pending, or any judgment
rendered on or prior to August 8, 1988; or
      (g)   Any ordinance which may be adopted by this City after August 8,
1988.
   (5)   This ordinance shall forthwith be published in accordance with KRS
83A.060(9) and shall become effective as of August 8, 1988.
Passed:
8/1/88  Passed on 1st reading
8/8/88  Passed on 2nd reading
8/8/88  Signed by Mayor
8/11/88  Published in full
8/11/88  Recorded by Clerk
                              Rawleigh M. Havens /s/
                              MAYOR
JoAnn Miller /s/
CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 12-1993
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF OWINGSVILLE, KY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the First Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Owingsville, KY., which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Kentucky Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Owingsville, State of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the First Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Owingsville, Ky., as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 23rd day of November, 1993.
                     SIGNED/s/ Pansy Swartz
                        Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Helen Staton
City Clerk
First reading 11-8-93
Second reading 11-23-93
PUBLISHED 12-2-93
ORDINANCE NO. 1-1998
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF OWINGSVILLE, KY.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems, Florence, Kentucky has completed the
1997 S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the city of Owingsville, KY
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
adoption of the 1994 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Code;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of
Owingsville, Commonwealth of Kentucky:
   SECTION 1. That the 1997 S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Owingsville, Ky., as submitted by Burlington Publishing Systems, and as
attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out
in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
Passed this 13th day of April, 1998.
                     SIGNED    /s/ Rawleigh M. Havens
                           Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Faye Davis
City Clerk
First reading March 9, 1998
Second reading April 13, 1998
PUBLISHED April 16, 1998
ORDINANCE NO. 1-2002
   AN ORDINANCE RE-ENACTING AND RE-ADOPTING BY REFERENCE THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE CITY OF OWINGSVILLE AS REVISED BY THE 2001 S-4 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE
PREPARED BY BURLINGTON PUBLISHING SYSTEMS.
   WHEREAS, Burlington Publishing Systems of Florence, Kentucky, has prepared
the 2001 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Owingsville,
Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature duly enacted by the city since the 2000 S-3 Supplement; and
   WHEREAS, the 2001 S-4 Supplement to the Owingsville Code of Ordinances was
compared for compliance with state and federal law; and
   WHEREAS, the Owingsville City Council acknowledges the necessity of revision
and updating the Code so that all current laws of the city of a general and
permanent nature are set forth therein and so that the Code is in conformance
with the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   NOW, THEREFORE, Be it ordained by the City of Owingsville, Kentucky as
follows:
   1.   That the Owingsville Code of Ordinances, as revised and updated by the
supplement prepared by Burlington Publishing Systems, which is attached hereto,
be adopted by reference as fully set forth in this ordinance.
   2.   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and publication according to law.
Date of First Reading:    3-11-02
Date of Second Reading:    4-9-02
Date of Publication:   4-11-02
ATTEST:    /s/ Faye Davis         /s/ Clarence Rister
      CITY CLERK         Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 5-2007
   AN ORDINANCE RE-ENACTING AND RE-ADOPTING BY REFERENCE THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
OF THE CITY OF OWINGSVILLE AS REVISED BY THE 2007 S-4 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE
PREPARED BY AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing of Cincinnati, Ohio, has prepared the
2007 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Owingsville,
Kentucky, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature duly enacted by the city since 2002 S-3 Supplement; and
   WHEREAS, the 2007 S-4 Supplement to the Owingsville Code of Ordinances was
compared for compliance with state and federal law; and
   WHEREAS, the Owingsville City Council acknowledges the necessity of revision
and updating the Code so that all current laws of the city of a general and
permanent nature are set forth therein and so that the Code is a conformance
with the laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
NOW, THEREFORE, Be it ordained by the City of Owingsville, Kentucky as follows:
   1. That the Owingsville Code of Ordinances, as revised and updated by the
supplement prepared by American Legal Publishing, Which is attached hereto, be
adopted by reference as fully set forth
   2. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and publication according to law.
Date of First Reading:      May 14, 2007
Date of Second Reading:    May 29, 2007
Date of Publication:      July 12, 2007
ATTEST:    /s/ Cathy Conway         /s/ Don Kincaid
      CITY CLERK            Mayor
MR. JAMISON   YEA
MS. PURVIS      YEA
MR. JONES      YEA
MS. JOHNSON   ABSENT
MR. TAYLOR   YEA
MS. BASHFORD   YEA
ORDINANCE NO. 7-2008
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF OWINGSVILLE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing of Cincinnati, Ohio, has prepared the
2008 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Owingsville, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted by
the city since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept the updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Owingsville:
   SECTION 1. That the 2008 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Owingsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be adopted by reference as
it set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage and publication according to law.
First reading of this ordinance was held on the 23rd day of June 2008.
   /s/Cathy Conway
   City Clerk
Second reading of this ordinance was held on 28th day of July and upon roll
call of vote, was adopted by the council of the City of Owingsville, Kentucky.
   /s/ Cathy Conway
   CITY CLERK
I, Don Kincaid, Mayor of the City of Owingsville, Kentucky hereby accept and
approve the ordinance and direct same to be published this the 28th day of
July.
   /s/ Don Kincaid
   MAYOR
Attest: Cathy Conway, City Clerk
Published August 6, 2008, Publication BCNO
CHRIS JAMISON      YEA
NANCY PURVIS      ABSENT
FAITH CORBIN      YEA
LAURA JOHNSON      YEA
CHARLES TAYLOR      YEA
ROBERTA BASHFORD   YEA
ORDINANCE NO. 3-2010
CITY OF OWINGSVILLE, KENTUCKY
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF OWINGSVILLE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing of Cincinnati, Ohio, has prepared the
2010 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Owingsville, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted by
the city since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept the updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Owingsville:
   SECTION 1. That the 2010 S-6 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Owingsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be adopted by reference as
it set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage and publication according to law.
First reading of this ordinance was held on the 12th day of April 2010.
   /s/Cathy Conway
   City Clerk
Second reading of this ordinance was held on 10th day of May and upon roll call
of vote, was adopted by the council of the City of Owingsville, Kentucky.
   /s/ Cathy Conway         
   CITY CLERK            
I, Don Kincaid, Mayor of the City of Owingsville, Kentucky hereby accept and
approve the ordinance and direct same to be published this the 10th day of May.
   /s/ Don Kincaid
   MAYOR
Attest: Cathy Conway, City Clerk
Published May 20, 2010, Publication BCNO
CHRIS JAMISON      YEA
NANCY PURVIS      YEA
FAITH CORBIN      YEA
LAURA JOHNSON      ABSENT
GARY BEALERT      YEA
ROBERTA BASHFORD   YEA
ORDINANCE NO. 7-2012
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF OWINGSVILLE, KENTUCKY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing of Cincinnati, Ohio, has prepared the
2012 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Owingsville, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted by
the city since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statues; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept the updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Owingsville:
   SECTION 1. That the 2012 S-7 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Owingsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be adopted by reference as
it set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage and publication according to law.
First reading of this ordinance was held on the 13th day of August 2012.
   /s/Cathy Conway
   City Clerk
Second reading of this ordinance was held on 10th day of September and upon
roll call of vote, was adopted by the council of the City of Owingsville,
Kentucky.
   /s/ Cathy Conway
   CITY CLERK
I, Don Kincaid, Mayor of the City of Owingsville, Kentucky hereby accept and
approve the ordinance and direct same to be published this the 10th day of
September.
   /s/ Don Kincaid
   MAYOR
Attest: Cathy Conway, City Clerk
Published September 20, 2012, Publication BCNO
JIM DAVIS         YEA
NANCY PURVIS      YEA
FAITH CORBIN      YEA
LAURA JOHNSON      YEA
GARY BEALERT      YEA
ROBERTA BASHFORD   ABSENT
ORDINANCE NO. 2-2015
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF OWINGSVILLE, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2015 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Owingsville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Owingsville:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2015 S-8 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Owingsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as it set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
First reading of this ordinance was held on the 9th day of February 2015.
   /s/Cathy Conway
   City Clerk
Second reading of this ordinance was held on 9th day of March and upon roll
call of vote, was adopted by the council of the City of Owingsville, Kentucky.
   /s/ Cathy Conway
   CITY CLERK
I, Gary Hunt, Mayor of the City of Owingsville, Kentucky hereby accept and
approve the ordinance and direct same to be published this the 9th day of
March.
   /s/ Gary Hunt
   MAYOR
Attest: Cathy Conway, City Clerk
Published March 19, 2015, Publication BCNO
JIM DAVIS         YEA
NANCY PURVIS      YEA
CHARLES ADKINS      YEA
CHRIS CROCKETT      YEA
GARY BEALERT      YEA
RAY TOY         ABSENT
ORDINANCE #7-2020
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE CITY OF OWINGSVILLE, KENTUCKY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2020 S-11 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Owingsville, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
municipality; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make references to sections of the Kentucky Revised Statutes;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the Commonwealth of Kentucky;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City of Owingsville:
   SECTION 1.   That the 2020 S-11 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Owingsville, Kentucky, as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as it set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2.   That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage, approval and publication as required by law.
First reading of this ordinance was held on November 9, 2020.
Second reading and adoption was held on December 14, 2020.
Published in the local newspaper on December 17, 2020.
                               /s/
                              Mayor Gary M. Hunt
ATTEST:  /s/
      Cathy Conway
      City Clerk
 
Ms. Goodpaster      YEA
Mr. McDaniel         YEA
Mr. Anderson      YEA
Mr. Crockett         YEA
Mr. Bashford         YEA
Ms. Barger         ABSENT
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Computation of time
   
10.05   Majority may act for all; authorized agent
   
10.06   Writings and signatures
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Revivor
   
10.09   Rights and liabilities accruing before repeal of ordinance
   
10.10   Construction of section references
   
10.11   Ordinances repealed
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Ordinances saved
   
10.14   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.15   Conflicting provisions
   
10.16   Reference to offices
   
10.17   Errors and omissions
   
10.18   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections shall be known and designated as the
Owingsville Code, for which designation “codified ordinances” or “code” may be
substituted. Code, title, chapter, and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
(KRS 446.140)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the traffic code. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation § followed by the number, such as §
10.01. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ACTION." Includes all proceedings in any court of this state.
(KRS 446.010 (1)
   "AND." May be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANIMAL.” Includes every warm-blooded living creature except a human being.
(KRS 446.010(2))
   “AVIS.” The Automated Vehicle Information System established and maintained
by the Transportation Cabinet to collet tilting and registration information on
vehicles and boat and information on holders of motor vehicle operator’s
licenses and personal identification cards. (KRS 446.010(55))
   “CITY,” “MUNICIPAL CORPORATION,” or “MUNICIPALITY.” When used in this code
shall denote the City of Owingsville irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   “COMPANY.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company, person,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(9))
   “CORPORATION.” May extend and be applied to any corporation, company,
partnership, joint stock company, or association.
(KRS 446.010(10))
   “COUNCIL.” The city legislative body. (KRS 83A.010(5))
   “COUNTY.” Bath County, Kentucky.
   “CRUELTY.” As applied to animals, includes every act or omission whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused or permitted. (KRS
446.010(12))
   “DIRECTORS.” When applied to corporations, includes managers or trustees.
(KRS 446.010(13))
   “DOMESTIC.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability, means all those incorporated or formed by authority of this
state. (KRS 446.010(14))
   “DOMESTIC ANIMAL.” Any animal converted to domestic habitat. (KRS 446.010
(15))
   “EXECUTIVE AUTHORITY.” The Mayor. (KRS 83A.010(6))
   “EXECUTIVE ORDER.” An order issued by the mayor which is binding upon the
officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which the
city has jurisdiction. (KRS 83A.010(7))
   “FEDERAL.” Refers to the United States. (KRS 446.010(17))
   “FOREIGN.” When applied to a corporation, partnership, business trust, or
limited liability includes all those incorporated or formed by authority of any
other state. (KRS 446.010(18))
   “KEEPER” or “PROPRIETOR.” Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves
or as a servant, agent, or employee.
   “KRS.” Kentucky Revised Statutes.
   “LAND” or “REAL ESTATE.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments and
all rights thereto and interest therein, other than a chattel interest. (KRS
446.010(23))
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council. (KRS 91A.010(8))
   “LEGISLATIVE BODY MEMBER.” A City Councilman. (KRS 83A.010(8))
   "LIVESTOCK." Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, horses, alpacas, llamas, buffaloes
or any other animals of the bovine, ovine, porcine, caprine, equine or camelid
species. (KRS 446.010(25))
   “MAY.” The act referred to is permissive. (KRS 446.010(26))
(KRS 446.010(26))
   “MISDEMEANOR.” An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(a), or a term of imprisonment not to exceed
the periods set forth in KRS 532.090(1) or both.
(KRS 83A.065)
   “MONTH.” Calendar month.
(KRS 446.010(27))
   “MUNICIPAL ORDER.” An official act of the City Council which is binding upon
the officers and employees of the city and any governmental agency over which
the city has jurisdiction.
(KRS 83A.010(9))
   “MUNICIPALITY.” The City of Owingsville, Kentucky.
   “OATH.” Includes “AFFIRMATION” in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(28))
   “OFFICER.” Any person elected to a position by the voters or any person
appointed to a position which:
      (1)   Is created by the Constitution, the General Assembly, or a city;
      (2)   Possesses a delegation of a portion of the sovereign power of
government;
      (3)   Has powers and duties to be discharged which are conferred directly
or by implication by the city;
      (4)   Has duties performed independently and without control of a
superior power other than the law;
      (5)   Has some permanency;
      (6)   Requires an official oath;
      (7)   Is assigned by a commission or other written authority; and
      (8)   Provides for an official bond if required by proper authority.
(KRS 83A.010(10))
   “ORDINANCE.” An official act of a city legislative body, which is a
regulation of a general and permanent nature and enforceable as a local law or
is an appropriation of money.
(KRS 83A.010(1))
   “PARTNERSHIP.” Includes both general and limited partnerships.
(KRS 446.010(30))
   “PEACE OFFICER.” Includes sheriffs, constables, coroners, jailers,
metropolitan and urban-county government correctional officers, marshals,
policemen, and other persons with similar authority to make arrests.
(KRS 446.010(31))
   “PERSON.” May extend and be applied to bodies-politic and corporate,
societies, communities, the public generally, individuals, partnerships, joint
stock companies, and limited liability companies.
(KRS 446.010(33))
   “PERSONAL PROPERTY.” Includes all property except real.
   “PREMISES.” As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   “PROPERTY.” Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   “PUBLIC AUTHORITY.” Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   “PUBLIC PLACE.” Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   “REAL PROPERTY.” Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   “REGULAR ELECTION.” The election in even numbered years at which members of
Congress are elected and the election in odd numbered years in which state
officers are elected.
(KRS 446.010(37))
   “RESOLUTION.” A resolution is a less formal mechanism for dealing with
matters of a special or temporary character. While an ordinance, and to a large
extent a municipal order, involves a distinctly legislative act, a resolution
is simply an expression of the opinion, will or policy of the legislative body
on some matter of ministerial business which has come before the body.
   “SHALL.” The act referred to is mandatory.
(KRS 446.010(39))
   “SIDEWALK.” That portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   “STATE.” The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   “STREET.” Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the city.
   “SUBCHAPTER.” A division of a chapter, designated in this code by an
underlined heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the
body of the chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject
matter of the heading. Not all chapters have subchapters.
   “SWORN.” Includes “AFFIRMED” in all cases in which affirmation may be
substituted for an oath.
(KRS 446.010(43))
   “TENANT” or “OCCUPANT.” As applied to premises, includes any person holding
a written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   “VACANCY IN OFFICE.” Such as exists when there is an unexpired part of a
term of office without a lawful incumbent therein, or when the person elected
or appointed to an office fails to qualify according to law, or when there has
been no election to fill the office at the time appointed by law; it applies
whether the vacancy is occasioned by death, resignation, removal from the
state, county, or district, or otherwise.
(KRS 446.010(46))
   “VIOLATE.” Includes failure to comply with.
(KRS 446.010(47))
   “VIOLATION.” An offense for which the criminal fine can not exceed the
amount set forth in KRS 534.040(2)(c).
(KRS 83A.065)
   “YEAR.” Calendar year.
(KRS 446.010(49))
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Singular includes plural. A word importing the singular number only
may extend and be applied to several persons or things, as well as to one
person or thing, and a word importing the plural number only may extend and be
applied to one person or thing as well as to several persons or things.
(KRS 446.020(1))
   (B)   Masculine includes feminine. A word importing the masculine gender
only may extend and be applied to females as well as males.
(KRS 446.020(2))
   (C)   Liberal construction. All sections of this code shall be liberally
construed with a view to promote their objects and carry out the intent of
Council.
(KRS 446.080(1))
   (D)   Retroactivity. No ordinance shall be construed to be retroactive,
unless expressly so declared.
(KRS 446.080(3))
   (E)   Technical terms. All words and phrases shall be construed according to
the common and approved usage of language, but technical words and phrases and
such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law,
shall be construed according to such meaning.
(KRS 446.080(4))
§ 10.04 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by order of
court, or by any applicable ordinance or regulation, the day of the act, event,
or default after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be
included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it
is a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday, or a day on which the public office
in which a document is required to be filed is actually and legally closed, in
which event the period runs until the end of the next day which is not one of
the days just mentioned. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less
than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be
excluded in the computation.
   (B)   When an ordinance, regulation, or order of court requires an act to be
done either a certain time before an event or a certain time before the day on
which an event occurs, the day of the event shall be excluded in computing the
time. If the day thereby computed on which or by which the act is required to
be done falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or a day on which the
public office in which the act is required to be completed is actually and
legally closed, the act may be done on the next day which is none of the days
just mentioned.
   (C)   If any proceeding is directed by law to take place, or any act is
directed to be done, on a particular day of a month and that day is Sunday, the
proceeding shall take place, or the act shall be done, on the next day that is
not a legal holiday.
(KRS 446.030)
   (D)   In all cases where the law requires any act to be done in a reasonable
time or reasonable notice to be given, such reasonable time or notice shall
mean the time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of such duty
or compliance with such notice.
§ 10.05 MAJORITY MAY ACT FOR ALL; AUTHORIZED AGENT.
   (A)   Words giving authority to three or more public officers or other
persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
officers or other persons.
(KRS 446.050)
   (B)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be construed to
include such acts when done by an authorized agent.
§ 10.06 WRITINGS AND SIGNATURES.
   (A)   When this code requires any writing to be signed by a party thereto,
it shall not be deemed to be signed unless the signature is subscribed at the
end or close of the writing.
   (B)   Every writing contemplated by this code shall be in the English
language.
(KRS 446.060)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It shall be considered that it is the intent of Council in enacting any
ordinance, that if any part of the ordinance be held unconstitutional the
remaining parts shall remain in force, unless the ordinance provides otherwise,
or unless the remaining parts are so essentially and inseparably connected with
and dependent upon the unconstitutional part that it is apparent that Council
would not have enacted the remaining parts without the unconstitutional part,
or unless the remaining parts, standing alone, are incomplete and incapable of
being executed in accordance with the intent of Council.
(KRS 446.090)
§ 10.08 REVIVOR.
   (A)   A repealed ordinance without a delayed effective date is revived when
the ordinance that repealed it is repealed by another ordinance enacted at the
same meeting of Council.
   (B)   A repealed ordinance with a delayed effective date is revived by the
enactment of a repealer of the ordinance that repealed it at the same or any
subsequent meeting of Council as long as it takes effect prior to the effective
date of the original repealer.
   (C)   An amended ordinance without a delayed effective date remains
unchanged with respect to an amendment which is repealed at the same meeting of
Councilwhich enacted the amendment.
   (D)   An amended ordinance with a delayed effective date remains unchanged
with respect to that amendment if the ordinance making the amendment is
repealed at the same or at a subsequent meeting of Council as long as the
repealing ordinance takes effect prior to the effective date of the original
amendment.
   (E)   No other action of Council repealing a repealer or an amendment shall
have the effect of reviving the original language of the repealer or amendment
as the case may be.
(KRS 446.100)
§ 10.09 RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES ACCRUING BEFORE REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance as to any
offense committed against a former ordinance, nor as to any act done, or
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or done, or any penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, except that the proceedings thereafter had shall conform, so far
as practicable, to the laws in force at the time of such proceedings. If any
penalty, forfeiture, or punishment is mitigated by any provision of the new
ordinance, such provision may, by the consent of the party affected, be applied
to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes effect.
(KRS 446.110)
§ 10.10 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, such reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
shall remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
Council, or a certain city officer or employee, to make additional ordinances
or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving such purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.14 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. Any
chapter, section, or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded
from this code by omission from reprinted pages. Subsequent ordinances as
printed or omitted shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances
until Council shall adopt a new code of ordinances.
   (B)   The method of amendment set forth in §
32.37 should be used by the city to amend, add, or repeal a chapter, section,
or division of this code of ordinances.
§ 10.15 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of the codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be so construed as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.16 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.17 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of such error.
§ 10.18 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a KRS cite is included in the history, this indicates that the text
of the section reads word-for-word the same as the statute. Example:
(KRS 83A.090) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85). If a KRS
cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text of the section,
this indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for further
information. Example:
      § 31.10 MAYOR.
         The executive authority of the city shall be vested in and exercised
by the Mayor.
      (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
                          
      Statutory reference:
         For powers and duties of the Mayor, see KRS 83A.130
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Where an act or omission is prohibited or declared unlawful in this code of
ordinances, and no penalty is otherwise provided, the offense shall be deemed a
violation and the offender shall be fined not more than $250 for each offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   CITY COUNCIL
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
34A.   PUBLIC MEETINGS
      
35.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
36.   VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
37.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
38.   TAXATION
      
39.   DISCRIMINATION BASED ON HANDICAPPED STATUS
      
40.   CODE OF ETHICS
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR-COUNCIL PLAN
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Governing officers
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government provided for this city shall be known as the “Mayor-
Council Plan.”
(KRS 83A.130 (1))
§ 30.02 GOVERNING OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city shall be governed by an elected executive who shall be called
Mayor and by an elected legislative body which shall be called the City
Council, and by such other officers and employees as are provided for by
statute or city ordinance.
(KRS 83A.130 (2))
   (B)   The City Council shall be composed of six members.
(KRS 83A.030 (1))
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01    Oath of office
   
31.02    Bond
   
31.03    Compensation
   
31.04    Removal from office
Elected Officials
   
31.20    Election procedure
   
31.21    Mayor
   
31.22    Councilmembers
Nonelected City Officials
   
31.35    Establishment of nonelected city offices
   
31.36    City Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.37    City Administrative Officer
Other Officials
   
31.45    City Attorney
   
31.46    Legal Counsel to City Council
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Oath. Each officer of the city shall, before entering upon the
discharge of duties of his office, take the following oath: "I do solemnly
swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of this Commonwealth, and be faithful
and true to the Commonwealth of Kentucky so long as I continue a citizen
thereof, and that I will faithfully execute, to the best of my ability, the
office of       according to law; and I do further solemnly swear (or affirm)
that, since the adoption of the present Constitution, I, being a citizen of
this State, have not fought a duel with deadly weapons within this State, nor
out of it, nor have I sent or accepted a challenge to fight a duel with deadly
weapons, nor have I acted as a second in carrying a challenge, nor aided or
assisted any person thus offending, so help me God", as established by Section
228 of the Kentucky Constitution.
   (B)   Certification of oath. Certification of the person administering the
oath of office to an elected official shall certify in writing that the oath
was administered and the date of its administration. Said certification shall
be filed in accordance with KRS 62.020.
§ 31.02 BOND.
   (A)   All officers, officials and employees of cities, counties, urban-
county governments and special districts who handle public funds in the
execution of their duties shall give a good and sufficient bond to the local
governing body for the faithful and honest performance of his or her duties and
as security for all money coming into that person's hands or under that
person's control. The bond amount shall be based upon the maximum amount of
public funds the officer, official or employee handles at any given time during
a fiscal year cycle. The local governing body shall pay the cost of the bond.
   (B)   Elected officials who post bond as required by statute, and employees
of their offices covered by a blanket or umbrella bond, shall be deemed to have
complied with subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS Chapter 65)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION.
   (A)    City Council shall establish the compensation of every elected city
officer not later than the first Monday in May in the year in which the officer
is elected. An elected officer's compensation shall not be changed after his
election or during his term of office.
      (1)   In order to equate the compensation of Mayors and Councilmembers
with the purchasing power of the dollar, the Department for Local Government
computes by the second Friday in February of every year the annual increase or
decrease in the consumer price index of the preceding year by using 1949 as the
base year in accordance with section 246 of the Constitution of Kentucky, which
provides that the Mayor in cities of the first class shall be paid at a rate no
greater than $12,000 per annum and Mayors in cities other than the first class
and Councilmembers shall be paid at a rate no greater than $7,200 per annum.
      (2)   The City Council shall set the compensation of these officers in
accordance with KRS 83A.070 at a rate no greater than that stipulated by the
State Finance and Administration Cabinet.
   (B)    The City Council shall fix the compensation of each appointed city
officer in the ordinance and may change it by ordinance.
   (C)    The City Council shall establish the compensation of city employees
in accordance with the personnel and pay classification plan ordinance of the
city.
   (D)    All fees and commissions authorized by law shall be paid into the
city treasury for the benefit of the city and shall not be retained by any
officer or employee.
Statutory reference:
   Compensation, see KRS 83A.070 and 83A.075
§ 31.04 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   Elected officers. Any elected officer, in case of misconduct,
inability, or willful neglect in the performance of the duties of his office,
may be removed from office by a unanimous vote of the members of the City
Council exclusive of any member to be removed, who shall not vote in the
deliberation of his removal. No elected officer shall be removed without having
been given the right to a full public hearing. The officer, if removed, has the
right to appeal to the circuit court of the county and the appeal shall be on
the record. No officer so removed is eligible to fill the office vacated before
the expiration of the term to which originally elected.
   (B)   Nonelected officers. Nonelected city officers may be removed by the
Mayor at will, unless otherwise provided by state law or ordinance.
Statutory reference:
   Removal of elected officers, see KRS 83A.040(6) Removal of nonelected
officers, see KRS 83A.080(2)
ELECTED OFFICIALS
§ 31.20 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Petitions of nomination for candidates for city offices shall be filed
with the County Clerk not earlier than the first Wednesday after the first
Monday in November of the year preceding the year in which the office will
appear on the ballot and not later than the second Tuesday in August preceding
the day fixed by law for the holding of regular elections for the offices
sought consistent with KRS 118.365 or any amendment thereto.
      (1)   All candidates for elected city offices shall file their nomination
papers with the County Clerk no later than the last Tuesday in August before
the day fixed by KRS Chapter 118 for holding the regular election.
      (2)   All nomination papers shall be filed no later than 4:00 p.m.
prevailing local time when filed on the last day on which such papers are
permitted to be filed.
      (3)   The election of candidates to all elected city offices shall be
governed by the provisions of this section and by applicable provisions of KRS
Chapter 83A and Chapters 116 to 121.
(Ord. 4-1987, passed 1-22-87; Am. Ord. 3-1989, passed 3-6-89)
   (B)    The city may change the manner of election of city officers within
the provisions of division (A) of this section by ordinance, except that no
change shall be made earlier than five years from the last change.
   (C)    The city shall pay the costs of city elections only if city elections
are held at a time other than prescribed by law for elections generally.
   (D)    Each appointed and elected city office existing on July 15, 1980,
shall continue until abolished by ordinance, except that the offices of Mayor
and City Councilmembers may not be abolished.
   (E)    No abolition of any elected office shall take effect until expiration
of the term of the current holder of the office.
   (F)    No ordinance abolishing any elected office shall be enacted later
than 240 days preceding the regular election for that office, except in the
event of a vacancy in the office.
   (G)    The city may not create any elected office. Existing elected offices
may be continued under provision of divisions (D), (E), and (F) above, but no
existing elected office may be changed.
(Am. Ord. 8-2010, passed 10-11-10)
Statutory reference:
   Election of city officers, see KRS 83A.050
   Creation, abolishment of city offices, see KRS 83A.080 (3),(4) Election to
fill unexpired term of city office, see KRS 83A.165
§ 31.21 MAYOR.
   (A)    Election; term of office. The Mayor of this city shall be elected by
the voters of the city at a regular election. His term of office begins on the
first day of January following his election and shall be for four years and
until his successor qualifies.
   (B)    Qualifications. The Mayor shall be at least 25 years of age, shall be
a qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
   (C)    Vacancy.
      (1)   When the absence or disability of the Mayor shall prevent his
serving in the office and performing the duties and responsibilities of Mayor
these duties shall be administered temporarily by a person designated by the
Mayor as set forth in KRS 83A.130 and he shall have the powers specified in KRS
Chapter 83A and 39.409.
      (2)   In the event of the absence or disability of the person designated
by the Mayor to act in the Mayor's absence or disability, the City Council
shall select, as outlined in KRS 83A.130(2), and interim Mayor Pro-Tem to serve
with the same authority and restrictions as the Mayor's designee until the
Mayor's designee or the Mayor can resume their duties.
(Ord 3-1992, passed 5-11-92)
      (3)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation in the office of
Mayor shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies the resignation
date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be effective at the
next regular meeting of the city legislative body.
(KRS 83A,040(7))
   (D)    Powers and duties.
      (1)   The executive authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall
be exercised by the Mayor. The Mayor shall enforce the Mayor-Council Plan, city
ordinances and orders, and all applicable statutes. He shall supervise all
departments of the city government and the conduct of all city officers and
employees under his jurisdiction and require each department to make reports to
him as required by ordinance or as he deems desirable.
      (2)   The Mayor shall maintain liaison with related units of local
government respecting interlocal contracting and joint activities.
      (3)   The Mayor shall report to the Council and to the public on the
condition and needs of city government as he finds appropriate or as required
by ordinance, but not less than annually. He shall make any recommendations for
actions by the Council he finds in the public interest.
(KRS 83A.130(3))
      (4)    Subject to disapproval of the Council, the Mayor shall promulgate
procedures to insure orderly administration of the functions of city government
and compliance with statutes or ordinances. Upon promulgation or upon revision
or rescission of the procedures, copies shall be filed with the person
responsible for maintaining city records.
(KRS 83A.130(4))
      (5)   Any delegation of the Mayor's power, duties, or responsibilities to
subordinate officers and employees and any expression of his official authority
to fulfill executive functions shall be made by executive order. Executive
orders shall be sequentially numbered by years and kept in a permanent file.
(KRS 83A.130(7))
      (6)   All bonds, notes, contracts, and written obligations of the city
shall be made and executed by the Mayor or his agent designated by executive
order.
(KRS 83A.130(8))
      (7)   The Mayor shall be the appointing authority with power to appoint
and remove all city employees, including police officers, except as tenure and
terms of employment are protected by statute, ordinance, or contract and except
for employees of the Council. (KRS 83A.130(9))
      (8)   The Mayor shall provide for the orderly continuation of the
functions of city government at any time he is unable to attend to the duties
of his office by delegating responsibility for any function to be performed, in
accordance with division (D) (5) above. However, the Mayor may not delegate the
responsibility of presiding at meetings of the Council, and the authority to
approve ordinances or promulgate administrative procedures may only be
delegated to an elected officer. With approval of the Council, the Mayor may
rescind any action taken in his absence under this section within 30 days of
such action. If for any reason the disability of the Mayor to attend to his
duties persists for 60 consecutive days, the office of Mayor may be declared
vacant by a majority vote of the Council and the provisions of §
31.21(C) shall apply.
(KRS 83A.130(10))
§ 31.22 COUNCILMEMBERS.
   For provisions concerning City Council, see
Chapter 32.
NONELECTED CITY OFFICIALS
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT OF NONELECTED CITY OFFICES.
   (A)    All nonelected city offices shall be created by ordinance which shall
specify:
      (1)   Title of office;
      (2)   Powers and duties of office;
      (3)   Oath of office;
      (4)   Bond, if required; and
      (5)   Compensation, which may be specifically established or set by
reference to another ordinance in which the compensation is specifically
established.
   (B)   With the exception of the Police Chief and all city police officers,
all nonelected city officers shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of
the City Council. The Police Chief and all city police officers shall be
appointed by the Mayor at will and such appointments need not be approved by
City Council.
   (C)   All nonelected officers may be removed by the Mayor at will unless
otherwise provided by statute or ordinance.
   (D)    The following are nonelected city offices:
      (1)    City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)    City Administrative Officer.
Statutory reference:
   Non-elected city offices, see KRS 83A.080(1),(2)
§ 31.36 CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created the office of City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (B)   Duties and powers. The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk shall
include, but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the city;
      (2)   Performance of the duties required of the "official custodian" or
"custodian" pursuant to KRS 61.870 through 61.882 and
Chapter 35 of this code.
      (3)   Serve as Custodian of the seal of the City's.
      (4)    Act as tax collector.
      (5)   No later than January 31 of each year, mail to the Department for
Local Government, a list containing current city information including, but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)    The correct name of the mayor, legislative body members, and
the following appointed officials who are serving as of January 1 of each year:
            1.   City Clerk;
            2.   City Treasurer;
            3.   City Manager;
            4.   City Attorney;
            5.   Finance Director;
            6.   Police Chief;
            7.   Fire Chief; and
            8.   Public Works Director.
         (b)   The correct name of the city, mailing address for City Hall, and
telephone number of City Hall; and
         (c)   The name and telephone number of either an elected or appointed
official to serve as a contact person that may be reached during normal
business hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
      (6)    Performance of any other duties and responsibilities required of
the City Clerk and City Treasurer by statute or ordinance.
      (7)    The Governor's Office for Local Development shall immediately
forward one copy of the information received from each City Clerk to the
Legislative Research Commission.
(KRS 83A.085(3)(d))
   (C)   Compensation. Compensation for the City Clerk/Treasurer shall be as
set from time to time by the City Council by ordinance in accordance with the
personnel classification and pay plan.
   (D)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the City Clerk/
Treasurer unless such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided a bond in the sum
of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) with corporate surety authorized to
transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the performance of the
duties specified herein.
   (E)   The employment policies and procedures of the city shall apply to this
office.
(Ord. 210.2, passed 3-3-86)
§ 31.37 CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   (A)    Establishment. There is hereby created the office of City
Administrative Officer.
   (B)    Powers and duties. The powers and duties of this office are
established as follows:
      (1)   Advise the Mayor in policy formulation on overall problems of the
city;
      (2)   Have major responsibility for preparation and administration of
operating and capital improvement budgets under direction of the Mayor;
      (3)   Advise the Mayor in the appointment of subordinate administrative
personnel if not delegated appointment authority by appropriate order;
      (4)   Have continuing direct relationships with operating department
heads on implementation and administration of programs; and
      (5)   Perform related duties as required by statute or ordinances.
   (C)    Compensation. Compensation for the City Administrative Officer shall
be as set from time to time by the City Council by ordinance in accordance with
the personnel classification and pay plan.
   (D)    Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as the City
Administrative Officer unless such person has taken the oath required by
Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has
provided a bond in the sum of $100,000 with corporate surety authorized to
transact business in Kentucky and conditioned upon the performance of the
duties specified herein.
   (E)    The employment policies and procedures of the city shall apply to
this office.
(Ord. 210.1, passed 3-3-86)
OTHER OFFICIALS
§ 31.45 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the position of City
Attorney.
   (B)   Appointment and qualifications. The Mayor shall appoint a City
Attorney who shall be the general law officer and legal counsel of the city.
The Mayor may remove the City Attorney at will. He shall be an attorney
licensed to practice in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. He shall be chosen solely
on the basis of his legal qualifications, with special emphasis on actual
experience in or knowledge of Kentucky municipal and administrative law. The
City Attorney may also engage in the private practice of law and may hold other
public or private employment.
   (C)   Duties and powers. The City Attorney shall have and exercise all
powers and duties assigned to him by statute, this chapter, and such other
municipal responsibilities delegated from time to time. He shall attend all
meetings of the City Council except those meetings at which his presence is not
specifically requested, shall advise the Mayor, the City Council, and all other
city officers and employees in all legal matters pertaining to their municipal
duties or affecting the interests of the city, shall appear for and defend the
city in all legal actions and administrative proceedings in which the city is a
party or is interested, shall institute legal action for and in behalf of the
city wherever necessary for protection or enforcement of rights or interests of
the city, shall prepare and examine ordinances, resolutions, orders, and legal
instruments as the Council may direct, and generally shall attend to all legal
business of the city.
   (D)   Compensation. The City Attorney shall be compensated pursuant to the
terms of a contract authorized by the City Council or as other wise established
by City Council by ordinance.
   (E)   Oath and bond. No person shall be appointed or act as City Attorney
unless such person has taken the oath required by Section 228 of the
Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and has provided a bond, if so
required by City Council, in the sum as established by City Council, with
corporate surety authorized to transact business in Kentucky and conditioned
upon the performance of the duties specified herein.
§ 31.46 LEGAL COUNSEL TO CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council of the City of Owingsville shall have the right to legal
representation, the position of legal representative is hereby created, and the
cost of same shall be paid by the City of Owingsville.
   All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed so far as they are in conflict. The invalidity of any section, clause,
sentence or provisions of this ordinance shall not affect the validity of any
other part of this ordinance without such invalid part or parts.
(Ord. 10-1996, passed 8-14-96)
CHAPTER 32: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Members; election, qualifications, compensation
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Powers and duties
Rules and Procedures
   
32.20   Mayor as Presiding Officer
   
32.21   Meetings
   
32.22   Quorum
Ordinances
   
32.35   One subject; title
   
32.36   Introduction; enacting clause
   
32.37   Form of amendment
   
32.38   Reading requirement; exception for emergency
   
32.39   Approval, disapproval by Mayor
   
32.40   Adoption of standard codes by reference
   
32.41   Official city records
   
32.42   Indexing and maintenance requirements
   
32.43   Publication requirements
   
32.44   Additional requirements for adoption may be established by city
   
32.45   Periodic review required
   
32.46   Municipal orders
   
32.47   Proved by Clerk/Treasurer; received in evidence
   
32.48   Legislative immunity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 MEMBERS; ELECTION, QUALIFICATIONS, COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Election; term of office. Each Councilmember shall be elected at-large
by the voters of the city at a regular election. A candidate for Councilmember
shall be a resident of the city for not less than one year prior to his or her
election. Terms of office begin on the first day of January following the
election and shall be for two years.
   (B)   Qualifications. A member shall be at least 18 years of age, shall be a
qualified voter in the city, and shall reside in the city throughout his term
of office.
(KRS 83A.040 (3)(4))
   (C)   Compensation. Effective January 1, 1997 the compensation of each
Councilmember shall be $600.00 per annum, payable in December of each year
during the elected term of each Councilmember, per KRS 83A.070.
(Ord. 6-1987, passed 5-4-87; Am. Ord. 2-1989, passed 3-15-89; Am. Ord. 2-1993,
passed 4-12-93; Am. Ord. 4-1996, passed 4-23-96)
§ 32.02 VACANCIES.
   (A)   Vacancies. If one or more vacancies on Council occur in a way that one
or more members remain seated, the remaining members shall within 30 days fill
the vacancies one at a time, giving each new appointee reasonable notice of his
selection as will enable him to meet and act with the remaining members in
making further appointments until all vacancies are filled. If vacancies occur
in a way that all seats become vacant, the Governor shall appoint qualified
persons to fill the vacancies sufficient to constitute a quorum. Remaining
vacancies are filled as provided in this section.
(KRS 83A.040(5))
      (1)   No vacancy by reason of a voluntary resignation of a member of the
City Council shall occur unless a written resignation which specifies a
resignation date is tendered to the City Council. The resignation shall be
effective at the next regular or special meeting of the City Council occurring
after the date specified in the written letter of resignation.
(KRS 83A.040(7))
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the City Council which is required by law to
be filled temporarily by appointment, the City Council shall immediately notify
in writing both the County Clerk and the Secretary of State of the vacancy.
(KRS 83A.040(8))
   (B)   Failure to fill vacancies. If for any reason, any vacancy on Council
is not filled within 30 days after it occurs, the Governor shall promptly fill
the vacancy by appointment of a qualified person who shall serve for the same
period as if otherwise appointed.
(KRS 83A.040(6))
                    
Statutory reference:
   Filling of vacancies for nonpartisan city office, see KRS 83A.175
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The legislative authority of the city is hereby vested in and shall be
exercised by the elected Council of the city. The Council may not perform any
executive functions except those functions assigned to it by statute.
(KRS 83A.130(11))
   (B)   The Council shall establish all appointive offices and the duties and
responsibilities of those offices and codes, rules, and regulations for the
public health, safety and welfare.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (C)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for sufficient revenue to
operate city government and shall appropriate the funds of the city in a budget
which provides for the orderly management of city resources.
(KRS 83A.130(12))
   (D)   The Council may investigate all activities of city government. The
Council may require any city officer or employee to prepare and submit to it
sworn statements regarding the performance of his official duties. Any
statement required by the Council to be submitted or any investigation
undertaken by the Council, if any office, department, or agency under the
jurisdiction of the Mayor is involved, shall not be submitted or undertaken
unless and until written notice of the Council's action is given to the Mayor.
The Mayor may review any statement before submission to the Council and to
appear personally or through his designee on behalf of any department, office,
or agency in the course of any investigation.
(KRS 83A.130 (13))
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 32.20 MAYOR AS PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council. The Council has
the authority to establish, by ordinance, the manner in which one of its number
may be selected to preside at meetings of the Council in the absence of the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor may participate in Council proceedings, but shall not have a
vote, except that he may cast the deciding vote in case of a tie.
(KRS 83A.130 (5))
                
Cross-reference:
   Council's responsibility to select one of its own members to preside when
there is a vacancy in the office of Mayor, see § 31.21
§ 32.21 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall meet on the second Monday of each month, with
the exception that if a holiday falls on that day, the meeting date will be
decided by the Mayor.
(Ord., passed 1-6-75; Am. Ord. 2- 1992, passed 2-12-92)
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or upon
written request of a majority of the Council. In the call, the Mayor or Council
shall designate the purpose, time, and place of the special meeting with
sufficient notice for the attendance of Council members and for compliance with
KRS Chapter 61.
   (C)   At a special meeting no business may be considered other than that set
forth in the designation of purpose.
   (D)   The minutes of every meeting shall be signed by the person responsible
for maintaining city records as provided under § 31.36 and by the officer
presiding at the meeting.
(KRS 83A.130 (11))
§ 32.22 QUORUM.
   Unless otherwise provided by statute, a majority of the Council constitutes
a quorum and a vote of a majority of a quorum is sufficient to take action.
(KRS 83A.060 (6))
ORDINANCES
§ 32.35 ONE SUBJECT; TITLE.
   Each ordinance shall embrace only one subject and shall have a title that
clearly states the subject.
(KRS 83A.060 (1))
§ 32.36 INTRODUCTION; ENACTING CLAUSE.
   Each ordinance shall be introduced in writing and shall have an enacting
clause styled “Be it ordained by the City of Owingsville.”
(KRS 83A.060 (2))
§ 32.37 FORM OF AMENDMENT.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to its title only, and ordinances
to amend shall set out in full the amended ordinance or section indicating any
text being added by a single solid line drawn underneath it. Text that is
intended to be removed shall be marked at the beginning with an opening bracket
and at the end with a closing bracket. The text between the brackets shall be
stricken through with a single solid line.
(KRS 83A.060 (3))
§ 32.38 READING REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no ordinance shall
be enacted until it has been read on two separate days. The reading of an
ordinance may be satisfied by stating the title and reading a summary rather
than the full text.
   (B)   In an emergency, upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the
membership, the Council may suspend the requirements of second reading and
publication in order for an ordinance to become effective by naming and
describing the emergency in the ordinance. Publication requirements of §
32.43 shall be complied with within ten days of the enactment of the emergency
ordinance.
(KRS 83A.060 (4),(7))
§ 32.39 APPROVAL, DISAPPROVAL BY MAYOR.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted by the Council shall be submitted to the Mayor
who, within ten days after submission, shall either approve the ordinance by
affixing his signature or disapprove it by returning it to the Council together
with a statement of his objections.
   (B)   No ordinance shall take effect without the Mayor's approval unless he
fails to return it to the legislative body within ten days after receiving it
or unless the Council votes to override the Mayor's veto, upon reconsideration
of the ordinance not later than the second regular meeting following its
return, by the affirmative vote of one more than a majority of the membership.
(KRS 83A.130 (6))
§ 32.40 ADOPTION OF STANDARD CODES BY REFERENCE.
   The Council may adopt the provisions of any local, statewide, or nationally
recognized standard code and codifications of entire bodies of local
legislation by an ordinance that identifies the subject matter by title,
source, and date and incorporates the adopted provisions by reference without
setting them out in full, if a copy accompanies the adopting ordinance and is
made a part of the permanent records of the city.
(KRS 83A.060 (5))
§ 32.41 OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Every action of the Council is hereby made a part of the permanent
records of the city and on passage of an ordinance the vote of each member of
the Council shall be entered on the official record of the meeting.
   (B)   The Council has provided, under the provisions of §§ 31.36(C) and
32.42, for the maintenance and safekeeping of the permanent records of the
city. The City Clerk/Treasurer and the presiding officer shall sign the
official record of each meeting.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.42 INDEXING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   At the end of each month, all ordinances adopted in the city shall be
indexed and maintained by the City Clerk/Treasurer in the following manner:
   (A)   The city budget, appropriations of money, and tax levies shall be
maintained and indexed so that each fiscal year is kept separate from other
years.
   (B)   All other city ordinances shall be kept in the minute book or an
ordinance book in the order adopted and maintained in this code of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (8))
§ 32.43 PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
32.38(B), no ordinance shall be enforceable until published pursuant to KRS
Chapter 424.
   (B)   Ordinances may be published in full or in summary as designated by the
City Council. If the City Council elects to publish an ordinance in summary,
the summary shall be prepared and certified by an attorney licensed to practice
law in the Commonwealth of Kentucky and shall include the following:
      (1)   The title of the ordinance;
      (2)   A brief narrative setting forth the main points of the ordinance in
a way reasonably calculated to inform the public in a clear and understandable
manner of the meaning of the ordinance; and
      (3)   The full text of each section that imposes taxes or fees prepared
or certified by an attorney licensed to practice law in the Commonwealth of
Kentucky.
   (C)   Ordinances that include descriptions of real property may include a
sketch, drawing, or map, including common landmarks, such as streets or roads
in lieu of metes and bounds descriptions.
(KRS 83A.060 (9))
§ 32.44 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION MAY BE ESTABLISHED BY CITY.
   The city may, by ordinance, specify additional requirements for adoption of
ordinances in greater detail than contained herein, but the city may not lessen
or reduce the substantial requirements of this chapter or any statute relating
to adoption of ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (10))
§ 32.45 PERIODIC REVIEW REQUIRED.
   Not less than once every five years all ordinances in this code of
ordinances shall be examined for consistency with state law and with one
another and shall be revised to eliminate redundant, obsolete, inconsistent,
and invalid provisions.
(KRS 83A.060 (11))
§ 32.46 MUNICIPAL ORDERS.
   (A)   Council may adopt municipal orders. All municipal orders shall be in
writing and shall be adopted only at an official meeting. Orders may be amended
only by a subsequent municipal order or ordinance. All orders adopted shall be
maintained in an official order book.
   (B)   In lieu of an ordinance, municipal orders may be used for matters
relating to the internal operation and functions of the city and to appoint or
remove or approve appointment or removal of members of boards, commissions, and
other agencies over which the Council has control.
(KRS 83A.060 (12), (13))
§ 32.47 PROVED BY CLERK/TREASURER; RECEIVED IN EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances and orders of the city may be proved by the signature of the
City Clerk/Treasurer; and when the ordinances are placed in this code of
ordinances by authority of the city, the printed copy shall be received in
evidence by any state court without further proof of such ordinances.
(KRS 83A.060 (14))
§ 32.48 LEGISLATIVE IMMUNITY.
   For anything said in debate, Councilmembers shall be entitled to the same
immunities and protections allowed to members of the General Assembly.
(KRS 83A.060 (15))
                    
Statutory reference:
   Privileges of members of General Assembly, see KRS 6.050 and Ky. Const. § 43
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Financial Administration
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Accounting records and financial reports
   
33.03   Fiscal year
   
33.04   Annual budget ordinance
   
33.05   Annual audit of city funds
   
33.06   Official depositories; disbursement of city funds
Improvements
   
33.10   Definitions
   
33.11   Financing of improvements
   
33.12   Apportionment of cost
   
33.13   Comprehensive report required
   
33.14   Public hearing required
   
33.15   Adoption of ordinance; notice to affected owners
   
33.16   Affected owner may contest
   
33.17   When city may proceed; assessment constitutes lien
   
33.18   Effect of additional property or change in financing
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 33.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   “BUDGET.” A proposed plan for raising and spending money for specified
programs, functions, activities, or objectives during a fiscal year.
(KRS 91A.010)
   “BUDGET YEAR.” The fiscal year for which a budget is made.
   “CURRENT YEAR.” The fiscal year in which a budget is prepared and adopted;
the fiscal year next preceding the budget year.
(Ord., passed 5-4-82)
   “DEBT SERVICE.” The sum of money required to pay installments of principal
and interest on bonds, notes, and other evidences of debt accruing within a
fiscal year and to maintain sinking funds.
   “ENCUMBRANCES.” Obligations in the form of purchase orders or contracts that
are chargeable to an appropriation. An obligation ceases to be an encumbrance
when paid or when the actual liability is recorded.
   “FISCAL YEAR.” The accounting period for the administration of fiscal
operations.
   “GENERALLY ACCEPTED GOVERNMENTAL AUDITING STANDARDS.” Those standards for
audit of governmental organizations, programs, activities, and functions issued
by the Comptroller General of the United States.
(KRS 91A.010(6))
   “GENERALLY ACCEPTED PRINCIPLES OF GOVERNMENTAL ACCOUNTING.” Those standards
and procedures promulgated and recognized by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board.
(KRS 91A.010(7))
   “PREVIOUS YEAR.” The last complete fiscal year before the current year.
(Ord., passed 5-4-82)
§ 33.02 ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The city shall keep its accounting records and render financial
reports in such a way as to:
      (1)   Determine compliance with statutory provisions; and
      (2)   Determine fairly and with full disclosure the financial operations
of constituent funds and account groups of the city in conformity with
generally accepted governmental accounting principles.
   (B)   The municipal accounting system shall be organized and operated on a
fund basis.
(KRS 91A.020)
§ 33.03 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year shall begin on July 1 of each year.
(Ord., passed 5-4-82)
                    
Statutory reference:
   Fiscal year, see KRS 91A.030
§ 33.04 ANNUAL BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to adopt rules governing the
City Council in its proceedings for administering the financial affairs of the
city, and to establish a standard procedure for the making and administration
of budgets, to place responsibility for the tasks related to budget
preparation, and administration, the determination of the amount of taxes and
other revenue in such manner that budgets may be balanced on the basis of
actual cash receipts within the budget period, the establishment of
appropriations, the payment of debt, and the control of other expenditures. Its
provisions are intended to enable the city to make financial plans for both
current and capital expenditures, to ensure that executive staffs administer
their respective functions in accordance with these plans, and to permit
taxpayers and investors to form intelligent opinions based on sufficient
information as to the financial policies and administration of the city. For
the accomplishment of this purpose, the provisions of this section shall be
broadly construed, and shall be in effect until repealed or amended. This
section may be repealed or amended by a majority vote of the City Council in
the same manner as required by state law for the adoption of an ordinance
except that in no case may a vote be taken on amendment or repeal of this
section at the meeting at which it is first proposed. Within the provisions and
for the purpose of this section, officers and employees shall have the power
and be subject to the duties experessly stated or necessarily implied.
   (B)   The Mayor, at least 30 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal
year, shall submit to the City Council a budget and an explanatory budget
message in the form and with the contents provided by this section. For such
purpose, not less than 60 days prior to the beginning of the fiscal year, he or
an officer designated by him shall obtain from the head of each office,
department, or agency estimates of revenue and expenditure of that office,
department, or agency, detailed by organization units within the department or
agency, object of expenditure (personal services, contractual services,
materials and supplies, capital outlay, and debt service), and such other
supporting data as he may request; together with a list of all new programs and
capital projects pending or which the department head believes should be
undertaken within the budget year and within the five next succeeding years. In
preparing the budget, the Mayor shall review the estimates, hold conferences
with department heads thereon, and may revise the estimates as he may deem
advisable. He also shall obtain from the responsible officer or officers
estimates of anticipated state and federal grants and required matching funds
where applicable.
   (C)   Budget message. The budget message submitted by the Mayor to the City
Council shall be explanatory of the budget; shall contain an outline of the
proposed financial policies for the fiscal year; and shall describe in
connection therewith the important features of the budget plan. It shall set
forth the reasons for salient changes from the current year in appropriation
and revenue items and shall explain any major changes in financial policy.
      (1)   As a part of the budget message, with relation to the propsed
expenditures for the budget year for capital projects, stated in the proposed
budget, the Mayor shall include a statement of pending capital projects and
proposed new capital projects, relating the respective amounts proposed to be
raised during the budget year therefor by appropriations from estimated
revenues for the budget year, the issuance of bonds, state or federal grants,
and loans or other sources.
      (2)   The Mayor shall also include in the message, or attach thereto, a
capital progam of proposed capital projects for each of the five fiscal years
next succeeding the budget year, together with his comments thereon and any
estimates of costs prepared by the Department of Public Works or other office,
department, or agency.
      (3)   Attached to the budget message shall be such supporting schedules,
exhibits, and other explanatory material, in respect to both current operations
and capital improvements, as the Mayor shall believe useful to the City
Council.
   (D)   Budget.
      (1)   The budget shall provide a complete program and financial plan for
all funds for the budget year. It shall contain in tabular form for each fund:
         (a)   A general summary;
         (b)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated revenues applicable to
proposed expenditures;
         (c)   All proposed expenditures.
   The total of such anticipated revenues shall equal the total of such
proposed expenditures.
      (2)   Budget summary. At the head of the budget there shall appear a
summary of the budget, which need not be itemized further than by principal
sources of anticipated revenue, stating separately the amount to be raised by
property tax, and by departments and kinds of expenditures, in a manner as to
present to taxpayers a simple and clear summary of the detailed estimates of
the budget.
      (3)   Anticipated revenues. Anticipated revenues shall include revenue
from all sources, including grants and loans, and shall be classified in
accordance with the systems recommended in the Kentucky Municipal Accounting
Manual. In parallel columns opposite the several items of anticipated revenue
there shall be placed:
         (a)   The amount of each such item actually received during the next
preceding fiscal year;
         (b)   The total of the amount of each item actually received to the
time of preparing the budget, plus anticipated receipts for the remainder of
the current fiscal year estimated as accurately as may be; and
         (c)   The amount of each item anticipated to be received during the
budget year estimated as accurately as may be.
      (4)   The fund balance available for appropriation shall be limited to
the amount by which cash is estimated to exceed liabilities at the beginning of
the budget year. This estimate shall be reviewed by the Mayor as soon as
practical after the end of the current fiscal year when the actual “fund
balance” is determined. At this time the estimates of revenue and authorized
appropriations shall be revised if necessary.
      (5)   Anticipated surplus from municipal utility or other public service
enterprise. The anticipated revenue and proposed expenditures of each utility
or other public service enterprise owned or operated by the city shall be
stated in a separate section of the budget (each bearing the name of the
utility); and as to each such utility, an anticipated surplus, if legally
available for general purposes and to the extent such surplus is to be used to
support budget operations, shall be stated as an item of revenue in the budget.
      (6)   Proposed expenditures. The proposed expenditures shall be itemized
as set out in this division and each item numbered in accordance with the
classification system recommended in the Kentucky Municipal Accounting Manual.
Separate provision shall be included in the budget for at least:
         (a)   Interest, amortization, and redemption charges on bonds
outstanding;
         (b)   Other statutory expenditures;
         (c)   Any cash deficit of current year (cash deficits are prohibited
by Section 157 of the Kentucky Constitution; however, if a casual deficit does
actually exist, the section should apply);
         (d)   Administration, operation, and maintenance of each office,
department, or agency of the city;
         (e)   Contingent expense in an amount not more than 3% of the total
amount stated pursuant to division (d) above;
         (f)   Expenditures proposed for capital projects.
   In parallel columns, opposite the several items of proposed expenditures,
there shall be placed the amount of each such item actually expended during the
next preceding fiscal year; the total of the amount actually expended to the
time of preparing the budget plus the expenditures for the remainder of the
current fiscal year estimated as accurately as may be; and the amount of each
item to be appropriated for the budget year.
   (E)   The proposed budget and budget message and all supporting schedules
shall be a public record in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer, open to
public inspection by anyone. The Mayor shall cause the proposed budget to be
printed or otherwise reproduced and sufficient copies thereof made available
for the use of all offices, departments, and agencies and for the use of
interested persons and civic organizations.
   (F)   Publication of notice of public hearing. At the meeting of the City
Council at which the budget and budget message are submitted, the City Council
shall determine the place and time of the public hearing on the budget, and
shall cause to be published a notice of the place and time, not less than seven
days nor more than 21 days before the public hearing.
   (G)   Public hearing on budget. At the time and place so advertised, or at
any time and place to which such public hearing shall from time to time be
adjourned, the City Council shall hold a public hearing on the budget as
submitted, at which all interested persons shall be given an opportunity to be
heard, for or against the revenue estimates or any proposed appropriation
therein.
   (H)   Further consideration of budget. After the conclusion of the public
hearing, the City Council may insert new items or may increase or decrease the
items of the budget, except items in proposed expenditures fixed by law or
prescribed by divisions (D)(5)(a), (b), and (c), but where it shall increase
the total proposed expenditures, it shall also increase the total anticipated
revenue at least to equal such total proposed expenditures.
   (I)   Adoption of budget. The budget shall be adopted by the favorable votes
of at least a majority of all the members of the City Council. The budget shall
be finally adopted not later than the fourth day prior to the beginning of the
fiscal year. Should the City Council take no final action on or prior to such
day, no expenditure may be made for any purpose except salaries until the
budget has been finally adopted by the City Council.
   (J)   Effective date of budget; certification; copies. Upon final adoption,
the budget shall be in effect for the budget year. A copy of the budget, as
finally adopted, shall be certified by the Mayor and the City Clerk/Treasurer
and filed in the office of the Mayor. The budget, so certified, shall be
printed or otherwise reproduced, and sufficient copies thereof shall be made
available for the use of all offices, departments, and agencies and for the use
of interested persons and civic organizations. A summary shall be published in
accordance with KRS 424.240. From the effective date of the budget, the several
amounts stated therein as proposed expenditures shall be and become
appropriated to the several objects and purposes therein named.
   (K)   Mayor to administer budget.
      (1)   Approval of expenditures. The Mayor shall have charge of the
administration of the financial affairs of the city and to that end shall
supervise and be responsible for the disbursement of all moneys and have
financial budgetary control over each office, department, and agency and shall
cause separate accounts to be kept for the items of appropriation contained in
the budget, each of which accounts shall show the amount of the appropriation,
the amounts paid therefrom, the unpaid obligations against it and the
unencumbered balance. The same classification and numbering system used in the
budget and required in division (D) shall be used. Unless he shall certify that
there is a sufficient unencumbered balance available, no appropriation shall be
encumbered and no expenditure shall be made.
      (2)   Work programs; allotments. Before the beginning of the budget year,
the head of each office, department, or agency shall submit to the Mayor, at
the time required by him, a work program for the year, which program shall show
the requested allotments of the appropriations for that office, department, or
agency, by quarterly periods, for the entire budget year. The Mayor shall
review the requested allotments in the light of the work program of the office,
department, or agency concerned and may revise, alter, or change the allotments
before approving the same. The aggregate of the allotments shall not exceed the
total appropriation available to the office, department, or agency for the
budget year. The Mayor shall certify a copy of the allotments and authorize all
expenditures for the offices, departments, and agencies to be made from the
appropriations on the basis of approved allotments and not otherwise. The
approved allotment may be revised during the budget year in the same manner as
the original allotment was made. If, at any time during the budget year, the
Mayor shall ascertain that the available income, plus balances, for the year
will be less than the total appropriations, he shall reconsider the work
programs and allotments of the several offices, departments, and agencies and
shall revise the allotments so as to forestall the making of expenditures in
excess of income.
      (3)   Transfer of appropriations. The Mayor may at any time transfer any
unencumbered appropriation balance or portion thereof between general
classifications of expenditures within an office, department, or agency. At the
request of the Mayor and within the last three months of the budget year, the
City Council may by amending the budget ordinance transfer any unencumbered
appropriation balance or portion thereof from one office, department, or agency
to another. No transfer shall be made from the appropriations required by
divisions (D)(5)(a), (b), and (c) of this section.
   (L)   Expenditures exceeding appropriations prohibited. No office,
department, or agency shall, during any budget year, expend or contract to
expend any money or incur any liability, or enter into any contract which by
its terms involves the expenditure of money for any purpose in excess of the
amounts appropriated for that general classification of expenditure pursuant to
the budget ordinance. Any contract, verbal or written, made in violation of
this section shall be null and void.
   (M)   Lapse of appropriations. All appropriations shall lapse at the end of
the budget year to the extent that they shall not have been expended or
lawfully encumbered.
   (N)   Emergency appropriations. At any time in any budget year, the City
Council may, pursuant to this section, make emergency appropriations to meet a
pressing need for public expenditure, for other than a regular or recurring
requirement, to protect the public health, safety, or welfare. Such
appropriation shall be by amendment to the budget ordinance adopted by the
favorable votes of at least a majority of the members of the City Council and
shall be made only upon recommendation of the Mayor. The total amount of all
emergency appropriations made in any budget year shall not exceed the amount of
unanticipated actual revenue in excess of the budget estimates, plus transfers
from other appropriations.
   (O)   Borrowing in anticipation of taxes. In any budget year in anticipation
of the collection of the revenue for the budget year, but not in excess of 50%
of such revenue then uncollected, the City Council may borrow money and issue
negotiable notes of the city.
   (P)   Reports. The Mayor shall, within 15 days after the end of each quarter
report to the City Council on the status of the various programs authorized.
The report shall include a tabular statement comparing the receipts to date by
source with the revenue estimate and a tabular statement indicating for each
appropriation the amount originally appropriated, the amount expended or
encumbered to date and the available balance. Within 45 days of the end of the
fiscal year, sufficient copies of the final report shall be made available for
the use of all offices, departments, and agencies and for the use of interested
persons and civic organizations.
(Ord., passed 5-4-82)
                    
Statutory reference:
   Annual budget, see KRS 91A.030
§ 33.05 ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall, after the close of each fiscal year, cause each fund
of the city to be audited by the auditor of public accounts or a certified
public accountant. The audits shall be completed by February l immediately
following the fiscal year being audited. The city shall forward an electronic
copy of the audit report to the Department of Local Government for information
purposes no later than March 1 immediately following the fiscal year being
audited.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a written contract with the selected
auditor. The contract shall set forth all terms and conditions of the agreement
which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements that:
      (1)   The auditor shall be employed to examine the basic financial
statements which shall include the government-wide and fund financial
statements;
      (2)   The auditor shall include in the annual city audit report an
examination of local government economic assistance funds granted to the city
under KRS 42.450 to 42.495. The auditor shall include a certification with the
annual audit report that the funds were expended for the purpose intended.
      (3)   All audit information be prepared in accordance with generally
accepted governmental auditing standards which includes such tests of the
accounting records and such auditing procedures as considered necessary under
the circumstances. Where the audit is to cover the use of state or federal
funds, appropriate state or federal guidelines shall be utilized;
      (4)   The auditor prepare a typewritten or printed report embodying:
         (a)   The basic financial statements and accompanying supplemental and
required supplemental information;
         (b)   The auditor's opinion on the basic financial statements or
reasons why an opinion cannot be expressed; and
         (c)   Findings required to be reported as a result of the audit.
      (5)   The completed audit and all accompanying documentation shall be
presented to Council at a regular or special meeting.
      (6)   Any contract with a certified public accountant for an audit shall
require the accountant to forward a copy of the audit report and management
letters to the Auditor of Public Accounts upon request of the city or the
Auditor of Public Accounts, and the Auditor of Public Accounts shall have the
right to review the certified public accountant's workpapers upon request.
   (C)   A copy of an audit report which meets the requirements of this section
shall be considered satisfactory and final in meeting any official request to
the city for financial data, except for statutory or judicial requirements, or
requirements of the Legislative Research Commission necessary to carry out the
purposes of KRS 6.955 to 6.975.
   (D)   Each city shall, within 30 days after the presentation of an audit to
the city legislative body, publish an advertisement, in accordance with KRS
Chapter 424, containing:
      (1)   The auditor's opinion letter;
      (2)   The “Budgetary Comparison Schedules-Major Funds,” which shall
include the general fund and all major funds;
      (3)   A statement that a copy of the complete audit report, including
financial statements and supplemental information, is on file at city hall and
is available for public inspection during normal business hours;
      (4)   A statement that any citizen may obtain from city hall a copy of
the complete audit report, including financial statements and supplemental
information, for his personal use;
      (5)   A statement which notifies citizens requesting a personal copy of
the city audit report that they will be charged for duplication costs at a rate
that shall not exceed twenty five cents ($0.25) per page; and
      (6)   A statement that copies of the financial statement prepared in
accordance with KRS 424.220 are available to the public at no cost at the
business address of the officer responsible for preparation of the statement.
   (E)   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition, any officer who fails to
comply with any of the provisions of this section shall, for each failure, be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00), in the discretion of the court, which may be
recovered only once, in a civil action brought by any resident of the city. The
costs of all proceedings, including a reasonable fee for the attorney of the
resident bringing the action, shall be assessed against the unsuccessful party.
   (F)   In lieu of the auditing requirements set forth in KRS 91A.040, if the
city for the fiscal year in question receives and expends, from all sources,
and for all purposes, less than seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000.00), and
has no long term debt, whether general obligation or revenue debt, the city may
comply fully with the provision of KRS 424.220 in lieu of the requirements
listed in divisions (A) through (H) above.
(KRS 91A.040)
   (G)   If the city determines that the cost of newspaper publication exceeds
the cost of postage, supplies, and reproduction, the city may substitute
delivery of a copy of the advertisement by first class mail to each residence
within the publication area, in lieu of the newspaper publication required by
this section.
(KRS 424.190(2))
                    
Statutory reference:
   Department for Local Government to provide assistance, see KRS 91A.050.
§ 33.06 OFFICIAL DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall designate as the city's official depositories one or
more banks, federally insured savings and loan companies, or trust companies
within the Commonwealth. The amount of funds on deposit in an official
depository shall be fully insured by deposit insurance or collateralized in
accordance with 12 U.S.C. sec. 1823, to the extent uninsured, by any
obligations, including surety bonds permitted by KRS 41.240(4).
   (B)   All receipts from any source of city money or money for which the city
is responsible, which has not been otherwise invested or deposited in a manner
authorized by law, shall be deposited in official depositories. All city funds
shall be disbursed by written authorization approved by the Mayor which states
the name of the person to whom funds are payable, the purpose of the payment,
and the fund out of which the funds are payable. Each authorization shall be
numbered and recorded.
(KRS 91A.060)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 33.10 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions shall apply:
   “ASSESSED VALUE BASIS.” The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to the ratio the assessed value of individual parcels of property
bears to the total assessed value of all such properties.
   “BENEFITS RECEIVED BASIS.” The apportionment of cost of an improvement
according to equitable determination by Council of the special benefit received
by property from the improvement, including assessed value basis, front foot
basis, and square foot basis, or any combination thereof, and may include
consideration of assessed value of land only, graduation for different classes
of property based on nature and extent of special benefits received, and other
factors affecting benefits received.
   “COST.” All costs related to an improvement, including planning, design,
property or easement acquisition and construction costs, fiscal and legal fees,
financing costs, and publication expenses.
   “FAIR BASIS.” Assessed value basis, front foot basis, square foot basis, or
benefits received basis.
   “FRONT FOOT BASIS.” The apportionment of cost of an improvement according to
the ratio the front footage on the improvement of individual parcels of
property bears to such front footage of all such properties.
   “IMPROVEMENT.” Construction of any facility for public use or services or
any addition thereto, which is of special benefit to specific properties in the
area served by such facility.
   “PROPERTY.” Any real property benefited by an improvement.
   “SPECIAL ASSESSMENT” or “ASSESSMENT.” A special charge fixed on property to
finance an improvement in whole or in part.
   “SQUARE FOOT BASIS.” The apportionment of cost of an improvement according
to the ratio the square footage of individual parcels of property bears to the
square footage of all such property.
(KRS 91A.210)
§ 33.11 FINANCING OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may not finance any improvement in whole or in part through
special assessments except as provided in this subchapter and in any applicable
statutes.
(KRS 91A.200)
   (B)   Cost of an improvement shall be apportioned equitably on a fair basis.
   (C)   The city may provide for lump sum or installment payment of
assessments or for bond or other long-term financing, and for any improvement
may afford property owners the option as to method of payment or financing.
(KRS 91A.220)
§ 33.12 APPORTIONMENT OF COST.
   The cost of any improvement shall be apportioned on a benefits received
basis with respect to any property owned by the state, a local unit of
government, or any educational, religious, or charitable organization. Council
may assess such property in the same manner as for privately owned property or
it may pay the costs so apportioned out of general revenues.
(KRS 91A.230)
§ 33.13 COMPREHENSIVE REPORT REQUIRED.
   Before undertaking any improvements pursuant to this subchapter, the city
shall prepare a comprehensive report setting out:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   The scope and the extent of the improvement, including the boundaries
or other description of the area to be assessed;
   (C)   The preliminary estimated cost of the improvement;
   (D)   The fair basis of assessment proposed;
   (E)   If financing of assessments is provided, the proposed method,
including the proposed years to maturity of any bonds to be issued in
connection with the improvement; and
   (F)   Such other information as may further explain material aspects of the
improvement, assessments, or financing.
(KRS 91A.240)
§ 33.14 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   After preparation of the report required by §
33.13, the city shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed
improvement at which all interested persons shall be heard. Notice of the
hearing shall be published pursuant to KRS Chapter 424, and mailed to each
affected property owner by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
include:
   (A)   The nature of the improvement;
   (B)   Description of area of the improvement;
   (C)   Statement that the city proposes to finance the improvement in whole
or in part by special assessment of property and the method to be used;
   (D)   Time and place the report may be examined; and
   (E)   Time and place of the hearing.
(KRS 91A.250)
§ 33.15 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE; NOTICE TO AFFECTED OWNERS.
   Within 90 days of conclusion of the hearing, the city shall determine
whether to proceed with the improvement by special assessments, and if it
determines to proceed shall adopt an ordinance so stating and containing all
necessary terms, including the items referred to in §
33.13 and a description of all properties. Promptly upon passage the city shall
publish such ordinance pursuant to KRS Chapter 424 and shall mail by certified
mail to each affected property owner a notice of determination to proceed with
the project, the fair basis of assessment to be utilized, the estimated cost to
the property owner, and the ratio the cost to each property owner bears to the
total cost of the entire project.
(KRS 91A.260)
§ 33.16 AFFECTED OWNER MAY CONTEST.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the mailing of the notice provided for in §
33.15, any affected property owner may file an action in the circuit court of
the county, contesting the undertaking of the project by special assessment,
the inclusion of his property in the improvement, or the amount of his
assessment. If the action contests the undertaking of the improvement by the
special assessment method of the inclusion of the property of that property
owner, no further action on the improvement insofar as it relates to any
property owner who is a plaintiff shall be taken until the final judgment has
been entered.
   (B)   The city may proceed with the improvement with respect to any
properties whose owners have not filed or joined in an action as provided in
this section or who have contested only the amounts of their assessments, and
the provisions of the resolution are final and binding with respect to such
property owners except as to contested amounts of assessments. After the lapse
of time as herein provided, all actions by owners of properties are forever
barred.
(KRS 91A.270)
§ 33.17 WHEN CITY MAY PROCEED; ASSESSMENT CONSTITUTES LIEN.
   (A)   After the passage of time for the action provided for in §
33.16, or after favorable final judgment in any such action, whichever comes
later, the city may proceed with the improvement or part thereof stayed by the
action, including notice requiring payment of special assessment or installment
thereon and bonds or other method proposed to finance the improvement. The
first installment may be apportioned so that other payments will coincide with
payment of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   The amount of any outstanding assessment or installments thereof on
any property, and accrued interest and other charges, constitutes a lien on the
property to secure payment to the bondholders or any other source of financing
of the improvement. The lien takes precedence over all other liens, whether
created prior to or subsequent to the publication of the ordinance, except a
lien for state and county taxes, general municipal taxes, and prior improvement
taxes, and is not defeated or postponed by any private or judicial sale, by any
mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the description of the property or in
the names of the owners. No error in the proceedings of the Council shall
exempt any benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or
from payment thereof, or from the penalties or interest thereon, as herein
provided.
(KRS 91A.280)
§ 33.18 EFFECT OF ADDITIONAL PROPERTY OR CHANGE IN FINANCING.
   The city may undertake any further proceedings to carry out the improvement
or any extension or refinancing thereof, except that §§
33.13 through
33.17 applies if additional property is included in the improvement or if
change is made in the method or period of financing; but additional property
may be included in the improvement with the consent of the owner thereof
without compliance with other sections if it does not increase the cost
apportioned to any other property, or any other change may be made without such
compliance if all property owners of the improvement consent.
(KRS 91A.290)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
General
   
34.01   Definitions
Procedures for Requesting Public Records
   
34.05   Initial request with immediate inspection
   
34.06   Referral to proper custodian
   
34.07   Public records not immediately available
   
34.08   Refusal of unreasonable requests
   
34.09   Time limitation; denial of inspection
   
34.10   Concealing or destroying records prohibited
   
34.11   Access to records relating to particular individual
   
34.12   Public records protected from disclosure
   
34.13   Notification of the Attorney General
GENERAL
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “CITY.” The city government of this city.
   “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE.” The direct or indirect use of any public record or
records, in any form, for sale, resale, solicitation, rent, or lease of a
service, or any use by which the user expects a profit either through
commission, salary, or fee. “COMMERCIAL PURPOSE” shall not include publication
or related use of a public record by a newspaper or periodical; use of a public
record by a radio or television station in its news or other informational
programs; or use of a public record in the preparation for prosecution or
defense of litigation, or claims settlement by the parties to such action, or
the attorneys representing the parties.
   “CUSTODIAN.” The official custodian or any authorized person having personal
custody and control of public records. The “CUSTODIAN” having personal custody
of most of the public records of this city is the City Clerk-Treasurer.
   “MECHANICAL PROCESSING.” Any operation or other procedure which is
transacted on a machine, and which may include, but is not limited to a copier,
computer, recorder or tape processor, or other automated device.
   “MEDIA.” The physical material in or on which records may be stored or
represented, and which may include, but is not limited to paper, microform,
disks, diskettes, optical disks, magnetic tapes, and cards.
   “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN.” The chief administrative officer or any other officer
or employee of a public agency who is responsible for the maintenance, care,
and keeping of public records, regardless of whether the records are in his
actual personal custody and control. The “OFFICIAL CUSTODIAN” of this city
shall be the Mayor.
   “PERSON.” A human being who makes a request for inspection of public
records.
   “PRESCRIBED FEE OR FEE.” The fair payment required by the city for making
copies of public records and for mailing public records which shall not exceed
the actual cost thereof and shall not include the cost of required staff time.
   “PUBLIC AGENCY.” Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statute, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a “public
agency”, as defined by this section; a member or employee of a “public agency”,
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualifications of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a “public agency” as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each “public agency” is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.870)
   “PUBLIC RECORDS.” All books, papers, maps, photographs, cards, tapes, discs,
diskettes, recordings, or other documentary materials regardless of physical
form or characteristics, which are prepared, owned, used, in the possession of,
or retained by a public agency. “PUBLIC RECORDS” shall not include any records
owned or maintained by or for the public agency that are not related to
functions, activities, programs, or operations funded by the public agency nor
any records that may be excluded by §
34.12.
   “REASONABLE FEE” or “FEE.” The fair payment required by a public agency for
making copies of non exempt public records requested for noncommercial purposes
which shall not exceed the actual cost of reproduction, including the costs of
the media and any mechanical processing cost incurred by the public agency, but
not including the cost of staff. If a public agency is asked to produce a
record in a nonstandardized format, or to tailor the format to meet the request
of an individual or a group, the public agency may at its discretion provide
the requested format and recover staff costs as well as any actual costs
incurred.
   “REQUEST.” An oral or written application by any person to inspect public
records of the city.
   “RESIDENT OF THE COMMONWEALTH.”
      (1)   An individual residing in the Commonwealth;
      (2)   A domestic business entity with a location in the Commonwealth;
      (3)   A foreign business entity registered with the Secretary of State;
      (4)   An individual that is employed and works at a location or locations
within the Commonwealth;
      (5)   An individual or business entity that owns real property within the
Commonwealth;
      (6)   Any individual or business entity that has been authorized to act
on behalf of an individual or business entity defined in paragraphs (1) to (5)
of this subsection; or
      (7) A news-gathering organization as defined in KRS 189.635(8)(b)1.a. to
e..
   “SOFTWARE.” The program code which makes a computer system function, but
does not include that portion of the program code which contains public records
exempted from inspection as provided by KRS 61.878 or specific addresses of
files, passwords, access codes, user identifications, or any other mechanism
for controlling the security or restricting access to public records in the
public agency's computer system. “SOFTWARE” consists of the operating system,
application programs, procedures, routines, and subroutines such as translators
and utility programs, but does not include that material which is prohibited
from disclosure or copying by a license agreement between a public agency and
an outside entity which supplied the material to the agency.
(KRS 61.870)
PROCEDURES FOR REQUESTING PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 34.05 INITIAL REQUEST WITH IMMEDIATE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any resident of the Commonwealth shall have the right to inspect
public records. The official custodian may require a written application,
signed by the applicant and with his name printed legibly on the application,
describing the records to be inspected. The official custodian may require the
applicant to provide a statement in the written application of the manner in
which the applicant is a resident of the Commonwealth under KRS 61.870(10)(a)
to (f).
      (1)   The written application shall be:
         (a)   Hand delivered;
         (b)   Mailed;
         (c)   Sent via facsimile; or
         (d)   Sent via e-mail to the public agency's official custodian of
public records or his or her designee at the e-mail address designated in the
public agency's rules and regulations adopted pursuant to KRS 61.876.
      (2)   A public agency shall not require the use of any particular form
for the submission of an open records request, but shall accept for any request
the standardized form developed under KRS 61.876(4).
(KRS 61.872 (2))
   (B)   If the custodian determines that a person’s request is in compliance
with the open records law and the requested records are immediately available,
the custodian shall deliver the records for inspection. Suitable facilities
shall be made available in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer for the
inspection. No resident of the Commonwealth shall remove original copies of
public records from the offices of any public agency without the written
permission of the official custodian of the record. (KRS 61.872(1).
   (C)   A resident of the Commonwealth may inspect the public records:
      (1)   During the regular office hours of the public agency; or
      (2)   By receiving copies of the public records from the public agency
through the mail. The public agency shall mail copies of the public records to
a person whose residence or principal place of business is outside the county
in which the public records are located after he or she precisely describes the
public records which are readily available within the public agency. If the
resident of the Commonwealth requesting the public records requests that copies
of the records be mailed, the official custodian shall mail the copies upon
receipt of all fees and the cost of mailing.
(KRS 61.872(3))
   (D)   The applicant shall have the right to make abstracts of the public
records and to obtain copies of all public records not exempted by this
chapter. When copies are requested, the custodian may require a written request
and advance payment of the prescribed fee as defined in §
34.01.
(KRS 61.874(1))
   (E)   Nonexempt public records used for noncommercial purposes shall be
available for copying in either standard electronic or standard hard copy
format, as designated by the party requesting the records, where the agency
currently maintains the records in electronic format. Nonexempt public records
used for noncommercial purposes shall be copied in standard hard copy format
where agencies currently maintain records in hard copy format. Agencies are not
required to convert hard copy format records to electronic formats.
   (F)   The minimum standard format in paper form shall be defined as not less
than 8 inches 11 inches in at least one (1) color on white paper, or for
electronic format, in a flat file electronic American Standard Code for
Information Interchange (ASCII) format. If the public agency maintains
electronic public records in a format other than ASCII, and this format
conforms to the requestor's requirements, the public records may be provided in
this alternate electronic format for standard fees as specified by the public
agency. Any request for a public record in a form other than the forms
described in this section shall be considered a nonstandardized request.
(KRS 61.874(2)(b))
   (G)   Unless an enactment of the General Assembly prohibits the disclosure
of public records to persons who intend to use them for commercial purposes, if
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for commercial purposes, the
public agency may establish a reasonable fee. The public agency from which
copies of nonexempt public records are requested for a commercial purpose may
require a certified statement from the requestor stating the commercial purpose
for which they shall be used, and may require the requestor to enter into a
contract with the agency. The contract shall permit use of the public records
for the stated commercial purpose for a specified fee. The fee may be based on
the cost to the public agency of media, mechanical processing and staff
required to produce a copy of the public record or records or the cost to the
public agency of the creation purchase, or the acquisition of the public
records.
(KRS 61.874 (4))
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for a person to obtain a copy of any part of a
public record for a:
      (1)   Commercial purpose, without stating the commercial purpose, if a
certified statement from the requestor was required by the public agency
pursuant to subsection (G) of this section: or
      (2)   Commercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the use
of the public record for a different commercial purpose; or
      (3)   Noncommercial purpose, if the person uses or knowingly allows the
use of the public record for a commercial purpose. A newspaper, periodical,
radio or television station shall not be held to have used or knowingly allowed
the use of the public record for a commercial purpose merely because of its
publication or broadcast, unless it has also given its express permission for
that commercial use.
(KRS 61.874 (5))
   (I)   Online access to public records in electronic form, as provided under
this section, may be provided and made available at the discretion of the
public agency. If a party wishes to access public records by electronic means
and the public agency agrees to provide online access, a public agency may
require that the party enter into a contract, license, or other agreement with
the agency, and may charge fees for these agreements. Fees shall not exceed:
      (1)   The cost of physical connection to the system and reasonable cost
of computer time access charges;
      (2)   If the records are requested for a commercial purpose, a reasonable
fee based on the factors set forth in subsection (G).
(KRS 61.874(6))
§ 34.06 REFERRAL TO PROPER CUSTODIAN.
   If the City Clerk-Treasurer does not have custody or control of the public
record or records requested, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall so notify the
applicant and shall furnish the name and location of the custodian of the
public record.
(KRS 61.872(4))
§ 34.07 PUBLIC RECORDS NOT IMMEDIATELY AVAILABLE.
   If the public record is in active use, in storage, or not otherwise
available, the official custodian shall immediately so notify the applicant and
shall designate a place, time, and date for inspection of the public records,
not to exceed three days (excepting Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays)
from receipt of the application, unless a detailed explanation of the cause is
given for further delay and the place, time, and earliest date on which the
public record will be available for inspection or duplication.
(KRS 61.872(5))
§ 34.08 REFUSAL OF UNREASONABLE REQUESTS.
   If the application places an unreasonable burden in producing public
records, or if the custodian has reason to believe that repeated requests are
intended to disrupt other essential functions of the public agency, the
official custodian may refuse to permit inspection of the public records or
mail copies of public records. However, refusal under this section must be
sustained by clear and convincing evidence.
(KRS 61.872(6))
§ 34.09 TIME LIMITATION; DENIAL OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   The official custodian, upon any request for records made under this
chapter, shall determine within five (5) days, excepting Saturdays, Sundays,
and legal holidays, after the receipt of any request whether to comply with the
request and shall notify in writing the person making the request within the
five-day period of its decision. An agency response denying, in whole or in
part, inspection of any record shall include a statement of the specific
exception authorizing the withholding of the record and a brief explanation of
how the exception applies to the record withheld. The response shall be issued
by the official custodian or under the official custodian’s authority and shall
constitute final agency action.
(KRS 61.880)
   (B)   If the requesting party wants the Attorney General to review the
denial of a request for inspection of a public record, he shall proceed under
the provisions of KRS 61.880 and 61.882. Upon the Attorney General's request,
the agency will provide additional documentation.
   (C)   If upon request by the person seeking inspection, the Attorney General
reviews the denial and issues a written opinion upholding, in whole or in part,
the request for inspection, the requesting party may institute appeal
proceedings within thirty (30) days for injunctive or declaratory relief in the
circuit court. In addition, if the Attorney General disallows the request, or
if the city continues to withhold the record notwithstanding the Attorney
General's opinion, and the person seeking disclosure institutes proceedings in
circuit court, the city shall notify the Attorney General of such action.
(KRS 61.880, 61.882)
§ 34.10 CONCEALING OR DESTROYING RECORDS PROHIBITED.
   No official or employee of the city shall willfully conceal or destroy any
record with the intent to violate the provisions of this chapter or these rules
and regulations.
§ 34.11 ACCESS TO RECORDS RELATING TO PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL.
   Any person shall have access to any public record relating to him or in
which he is mentioned by name, upon presentation of appropriate identification,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(KRS 61.884)
§ 34.12 PUBLIC RECORDS PROTECTED FROM DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   The following public records are excluded from the application of this
chapter and these rules and regulations, and shall be subject to inspection
only upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction, except that no court
shall authorize the inspection by any party of any materials pertaining to
civil litigation beyond that which is provided by the Rules of Civil Procedure
governing pretrial discovery:
      (1)   Public records containing information of a personal nature where
the public disclosure thereof would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion
of personal privacy.
      (2)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency and compiled and
maintained for scientific research. This exemption shall not, however, apply to
records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by other statute.
      (3)   (a) Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which if opened would permit an unfair commercial advantage to
competitors of the entity that disclosed the records;
         (b)   Records confidentially disclosed to an agency or required by an
agency to be disclosed to it, generally recognized as confidential or
proprietary, which are complied and maintained:
            1. In conjunction with an application for or the administration of
a loan or grant;
            2.   In conjunction with the regulation of commercial enterprise,
including mineral exploration records, unpatented, secret commercially valuable
plans, appliances, formulae, or processes, which are used for the making,
preparing, compounding, treating, or processing of articles or materials which
are trade commodities obtained from a person; or
            3.   For the grant or review of a license to do business.
         (b)   The exemptions provided for in division (a) above, shall not
apply to records the disclosure or publication of which is directed by statute.
      (4)   Public records pertaining to a prospective location of a business
or industry where no previous public disclosure has been made of the business'
or industry's interest in locating in, relocating within, or expanding within
the Commonwealth. This exemption shall not include those records pertaining to
applications to agencies for permits or licenses necessary to do business or to
expand business operations within the state, except as provided in division (A)
(2) above.
      (5)   Public records which are developed by an agency in conjunction with
the regulation or supervision of financial institutions, including but not
limited to, banks, savings and loan associations, and credit unions, which
disclose the agency's internal examining or audit criteria and related
analytical methods.
      (6)   The contents of real estate appraisals or engineering or
feasibility estimates and evaluations made by or for a public agency relative
to the acquisition of property, until such time as all of the property has been
acquired. The law of eminent domain shall not be affected by this provision.
      (7)   Test questions, scoring keys, and other examination data used to
administer a licensing examination, examination for employment, or academic
examination before the exam is given or if it is to be given again.
      (8)   Records of law enforcement agencies or agencies involved in
administrative adjudication that were compiled in the process of detecting and
investigating statutory or regulatory violations, if the disclosure of the
information would harm the agency by revealing the identity of informants not
otherwise known or by premature release of information to be used in a
prospective law enforcement action or administrative adjudication. Unless
exempted by other provisions of this chapter, public records exempted under
this provision shall be open after enforcement action is completed or a
decision is made to take no action. The exemptions provided by this subdivision
shall not be used by the custodian of the records to delay or impede the
exercise of rights granted by this chapter.
      (9)   Preliminary drafts, notes, or correspondence with private
individuals, other than correspondence which is intended to give notice of
final action of a public agency.
      (10)   Preliminary recommendations and preliminary memoranda in which
opinions are expressed or policies formulated or recommended.
      (11)   All public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited by federal law or regulation or state law.
      (12)   Public records or information the disclosure of which is
prohibited or restricted or otherwise made confidential by enactment of the
General Assembly, including any information acquired by the Department of
Revenue in tax administration that is prohibited from divulgence or disclosure
under state law.
      (13)   (a)   Public records the disclosure of which would have a
reasonable likelihood of threatening the public safety by exposing a
vulnerability in preventing, protecting against, mitigating, or responding to a
terrorist act and limited to:
            1.   Criticality lists resulting from consequence assessments;
            2.   Vulnerability assessments;
            3.   Antiterrorism protective measures and plans;
            4.   Security and response needs assessments;
            5.   Infrastructure records that expose a vulnerability referred to
in this division through the disclosure of the location, configuration, or
security of critical systems, including public utility critical systems. These
critical systems shall include but not be limited to information technology,
communication, electrical, fire suppression, ventilation, water, wastewater,
sewage and gas systems.
            6.   The following records when their disclosure will expose a
vulnerability referred to in this division: detailed drawings, schematics,
maps, or specifications of structural elements, floor plans, and operating,
utility or security systems of any building or facility owned, occupied, leased
or maintained by a public agency; and
            7.   Records when their disclosure will expose a vulnerability
referred to in this division and that describe the exact physical location of
hazardous chemical, radiological, or biological materials.
         (b)   As used in this division, “TERRORIST ACT” means a criminal act
intended to:
            1.   Intimidate or coerce a public agency or all or part of the
civilian population;
            2.   Disrupt a system identified in division (a)5.; or
            3.   Cause massive destruction to a building or facility owned,
occupied, leased, or maintained by a public agency.
         (c)   On the same day that a public agency denies a request to inspect
a public record for a reason identified in this division, that public agency
shall forward a copy of the written denial of the request, referred to in KRS
61.880(1), to the executive director of the Kentucky Office of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General;
         (d)   Nothing in this division shall affect the obligations of a
public agency with respect to disclosure and availability of public records
under state environmental, health, and safety programs;
         (e)   The exemption established in this division shall not apply when
a member of the Kentucky General Assembly seeks to inspect a public record
identified in this division under the Open Records Law.
      (14)   Public or private records, including books, papers, maps,
photographs, cards, tapes, discs, diskettes, recordings, software, or other
documentation regardless of physical form or characteristics, having historic,
literary, artistic, or commemorative value accepted by the archivist of a
public university, museum, or government depository from a donor or depositor
other than a public agency. This exemption shall apply to the extent that
nondisclosure is requested in writing by the donor or depositor of such
records, but shall not apply to records the disclosure or publication of which
is mandated by another statute or by federal law.
      (15)   Records of a procurement process under KRS Chapters 45A or 56.
This exemption shall not apply after:
         (a)   A contract is awarded; or
         (b)   The procurement process is canceled without award of a contract
and there is a determination that the contract will not be re-solicited.
      (16)   Client and case files maintained by the Department of Public
Advocacy or any person or entity contracting with the Department of Public
Advocacy for the provision of legal representation under KRS Chapter 31;
      (17)   Except as provided in KRS 61.168, photographs or videos that
depict the death, killing, rape, or sexual assault of a person. However, such
photographs or videos shall be made available by the public agency to the
requesting party for viewing on the premises of the public agency, or a
mutually agreed upon location, at the request of;
         (a)   1.   Any victim depicted in the photographs or videos, his or
her immediate family, or legal representative;
            2.   Any involved insurance company or its representative; or
            3.   The legal representative of any involved party;
         (b)   Any state agency or political subdivision investigating official
misconduct; or
         (c)   A legal representative for a person under investigation for,
charged with, pled guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the
underlying incident. The person under investigation for, charged with, pled
guilty to, or found guilty of a crime related to the underlying incident or
their immediate family shall not be permitted to have access to the photographs
or videos; and
      (18)   Communications of a purely personal nature unrelated to any
governmental function.
   (B)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to prohibit
disclosure of statistical information not descriptive of any readily
identifiable person. In addition, if any public record contains material which
is not excepted under this section, the city shall separate the excepted and
make the nonexcepted material available for examination, subject to the
possible applicability of §
34.08.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall in no way prohibit or limit the
exchange of public records or the sharing of information between public
agencies when the exchange is serving a legitimate governmental need or is
necessary in the performance of a legitimate government function.
   (D)   No exemption under this section shall be construed to deny, abridge,
or impede the right of a municipal employee, an applicant for employment, or an
eligible person on an employment register to inspect and copy any record,
including preliminary and other supporting documentation, that relates to that
person. Such records shall include, but not be limited to work plans, job
performance, demotions, evaluations, promotions, compensation, classification,
reallocation, transfers, layoffs, disciplinary actions, examination scores, and
preliminary and other supporting documentation. A municipal employee,
applicant, or eligible person on an employment register shall not have the
right to inspect or copy any examination or any documents relating to ongoing
criminal or administrative investigations by an agency.
   (E)   When material is made available pursuant to a request under division
(A)(17) of this section, the public agency shall not be required to make a copy
of the recording except as provided in KRS 61.169, and the requesting parties
shall not be limited in the number of times they may view the material.
(KRS 61.878)
§ 34.13 NOTIFICATION OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
   The official custodian shall notify the Attorney General of any actions
filed against the city in circuit court regarding the enforcement of the open
records law, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
CHAPTER 34A: PUBLIC MEETINGS
Section
General
   
34A.01   Definitions
Public Meeting Requirements
   
34A.05   Meetings Open to the Public
   
34A.06   Requirements for Closed Sessions
   
34A.07   Public Meeting Schedules
   
34A.08   Special Meetings
   
34A.09   Video Teleconferences
   
34A.10   Enforcement
GENERAL
§ 34A.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   “ACTION TAKEN.” A collective decision, a commitment or promise to make a
positive or negative decision, or an actual vote by a majority of the members
of the governmental body.
(KRS 61.805 (3))
   “MEETING.” All gatherings of every kind, regardless of where the meeting is
held, and whether regular or special and informational or casual gatherings
held in anticipation of or in conjunction with a regular or special meeting.
(KRS 61.805 (4))
   “MEMBER.” A member of the governing body of a public agency. “Member” does
not include employees or licensees of the agency.
(KRS 61.805(4))
   “PUBLIC AGENCY.” Every city government board, commission, and authority;
every city council and council board, commission and committee; every school
district board, special district board, and municipal corporation; every city
government agency, including the policy-making board of an institution of
education created by or pursuant to state or local statute, executive order,
ordinance, resolution, or other legislative act; any body created by or
pursuant to state or local statue, executive order, ordinance, resolution, or
other legislative act in the legislative or executive branch of government; any
entity when the majority of its governing body is appointed by a “public
agency” as defined by this section; a member or employee of a “public agency”;
a state or local officer, or any combination thereof; any board, commission,
committee, subcommittee, ad hoc committee, advisory committee, council or
agency, except for a committee of a hospital medical staff or a committee
formed for the purpose of evaluating the qualification of public agency
employees, established, created, or controlled by a “public agency” as defined
in this section; an interagency body of two (2) or more public agencies where
each “public agency” is defined in this section.
(KRS 61.805 (2))
   “VIDEO TELECONFERENCE.” One (1) meeting, occurring in two (2) or more
locations, where individuals can see and hear each other by means of video and
audio equipment.
(KRS 61.805(5))
PUBLIC MEETING REQUIREMENTS
§ 34A.05 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   All meetings of a quorum of the members of any public agency at which
any public business is discussed or at which any action is taken by the agency,
shall be public meetings, open to the public at all times, except for the
following:
      (1)   Deliberations on the future acquisition or sale of real property by
a public agency, but only when publicity would be likely to affect the value of
a specific piece of property to be acquired for public use or sold by a public
agency;
      (2)   Discussions of proposed or pending litigation against or on behalf
of the public agency;
      (3)   Collective bargaining negotiations between public employers and
their employees or their representatives;
      (4)   Discussions or hearings which might lead to the appointment,
discipline, or dismissal of an individual employee, member, or student without
restricting that employee's, member's or student's right to a public hearing if
requested. This exception shall not be interpreted to permit discussion of
general personnel matters in secret;
      (5)   Discussions between a public agency and a representative of a
business entity and discussions concerning a specific proposal, if open
discussions would jeopardize the siting, retention, expansion, or upgrading of
the business;
      (6)   Local cabinet meetings and executive cabinet meetings;
      (7)   Deliberations of quasi-judicial bodies regarding individual
adjudications or appointments, at which neither the person involved, his
representatives, nor any other individual not a member of the agency's
governing body or staff is present, but not including any meetings of planning
commissions, zoning commissions, or boards of adjustment;
      (8)   That portion of a meeting devoted to a discussion of a specific
public record exempted from disclosure under KRS 61.878(1)(i). However, that
portion of any public agency meeting shall not be closed to a member of the
Kentucky General Assembly;
      (9)   Meetings which federal or state law specifically require to be
conducted in privacy;
      (10)   Meetings which the Constitution provides shall be held in secret;
and
      (11)   Meetings of any selection committee, evaluation committee, or
other similar group established under KRS Chapters 45A or 56 to select a
successful bidder for award of a state contract.
   (B)   Any series of less than quorum meetings, where the members attending
one or more of the meetings collectively constitute at least a quorum of the
members of the public agency and where the meetings are held for the purpose of
avoiding the requirements of subsection (A) of this section, shall be subject
to the requirements of subsection (A) of this section. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to prohibit discussion between individual members
where the purpose of the discussions is to educate the members on specific
issues.
(KRS 61.810)
§ 34A.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements shall be met as a condition for conducting
closed sessions by those public agencies authorized by §
34A.05 (A) (1) and (4) except as (4) relates to students:
      (1)   Notice shall be given in regular open meeting of the general nature
of the business to be discussed in closed session, the reason for the closed
session, and the specific provision of §
34A.05 authorizing the closed session;
      (2)   Closed sessions may be held only after a motion is made and carried
by a majority vote in open, public session;
      (3)   No final action may be taken in closed session; and
      (4)   No matters may be discussed at a closed session other than those
publicly announced prior to convening the closed session.
      (5)   Public agencies and activities identified in §
34A.05 (A) paragraphs (2), (3), (4) but only so far as (4) relates to students,
(5), (6), (7), (8), (9) and (10) are excluded from the requirements of
subsection (A) of this section.
(KRS 61.815)
§ 34A.07 PUBLIC MEETING SCHEDULES.
   (A)   All meetings of a public agency shall be held at specified times and
places which are convenient to the public. In considering locations for public
meetings, the agency shall evaluate space requirements, seating capacity, and
acoustics.
   (B)   All public agencies shall provide for a schedule of regular meetings
by ordinance, order, resolution, by laws or by whatever other means may be
required for the conduct of business of the public agency. The schedule of
regular meetings shall be made available to the public.
(KRS 61.820)
§ 34A.08 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided by subsection (F) of this section, special meetings
shall be held in accordance with the provisions of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
of this section.
   (B)   The presiding officer or a majority of the members of the public
agency may call a special meeting;
   (C)   The public agency shall provide written notice of the special meeting
containing the date, time, place of the special meeting and the agenda.
Discussions and action at the meeting shall be limited to items listed on the
agenda in the notice.
   (D)   (1)   As soon as possible, written notice shall be delivered
personally, transmitted by facsimile, or mailed to every member of the public
agency as well as each media organization which has filed a written request,
including a mailing address, to receive notice of special meetings. The notice
shall be received at least twenty-four (24) hours before the special meeting.
The public agency may periodically, but no more often than once in a calendar
year, informmedia organizations that they will have to submit a new written
request or no longer receive written notice of special meetings until a new
written request is filed.
      (2)   A public agency may satisfy the requirements of division (1) of
this section by transmitting the written notice by electronic mail to public
agency members and media organizations that have filed a written request with
the public agency indicating their preference to receive electronic mail
notification in lieu of notice by personal delivery, facsimile machine, or
mail. The written request shall include the electronic mail address or
addresses of the agency member or media organization.
   (E)   As soon as possible, written notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place in the building where the special meeting will take place and
in a conspicuous place in the building which houses the headquarters of the
agency. The notice shall be posted at least twenty-four (24) hours before the
special meeting.
   (F)   In the case of an emergency which prevents compliance with the notice
requirements in this section, this subsection shall govern a public agency's
conduct of a special meeting. The special meeting shall be called pursuant to
subsection (B) of this section. The public agency shall make a reasonable
effort, under emergency circumstances, to notify the members of the agency,
media organizations which have filed a written request pursuant to this
section, and the public of the emergency meeting. At the beginning of the
emergency meeting, the person chairing the meeting shall briefly describe for
the record the emergency circumstances preventing compliance with the notice
requirements of this section. These comments shall appear in the minutes.
Discussion and action at the emergency meeting shall be limited to the
emergency for which the meeting is called.
(KRS 61.823)
§ 34A.09 VIDEO TELECONFERENCES.  
   (A)   A public agency may conduct any meeting through video teleconferences.
   (B)   Notice of a video teleconference shall comply with the requirements of
KRS 61.820 or 61.823 as appropriate; in addition the notice of a video
teleconference shall:
      (1)   Clearly state that the meeting will be a video teleconference; and
      (2)   Precisely identify a primary location of the video teleconference
where all members can be seen and heard and the public may attend in accordance
with KRS 61.840.
   (C)   The same procedure with regard to participation, distribution of
materials, and other matters shall apply in all video teleconference locations.
   (D)   Any interruption in the video or audio broadcast of a video
teleconference at any location shall result in the suspension of the video
teleconference until the broadcast is restored.
(KRS 61.826)
§ 34A.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to KRS 61.846 and
61.848 for enforcing KRS 61.805 to 61.850.
CHAPTER 35: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
35.01   Establishment
Housing Commission
   
35.10   Housing projects; Housing Commission created
   
35.11   Members; appointment, qualifications, and terms
   
35.12   Corporate powers; officers
   
35.13   Compensation of members and officers
   
35.14   Member or employee not to be interested in project
   
35.15   Removal of member
Planning Commission
   
35.25   Establishment
Police Department
   
35.35   Establishment
   
35.36   Police Chief
   
35.37   Police Officer
   
35.38   Kentucky Law Enforcement Foundation Program Fund
Volunteer Fire Department
   
35.50   Establishment
Department of Public Works
   
35.60   Establishment
   
35.61   Superintendent of the Public Works Department
   
35.62   Duties of the Department
Recreational, Tourist and Convention Commission
   
35.70   Creation of Commission
   
35.71   Compensation; number of members
   
35.72   Vacancies
   
35.73   Length of terms
   
35.74   Recommendations made each year
   
35.75   Election of officers
   
35.76   Meetings to be held
   
35.77   Annual request for funds
   
35.78   Transient room tax
   
35.79   Restaurant gross retail tax
   
35.80   Quarterly payment of taxes
   
35.81   Definition of restaurant
   
35.82   Interest on unpaid tax
   
35.83   Exceptions
   
35.84   Examination of books, papers, records authorized
BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Board of Zoning Adjustment, see § 153.016.
HOUSING COMMISSION
§ 35.10 HOUSING PROJECTS; HOUSING COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   The city may acquire, establish, and operate, within the city limits,
low-cost housing, under the provisions of this subchapter, for the purpose of
providing adequate and sanitary living quarters for individuals or families.
The city and the Housing Commission hereby created shall have all powers
necessary and appropriate to engage in low-cost housing and slum clearance
projects.
   (B)   The Housing Commission, created pursuant to division (A) of this
section, may engage in the maintenance and enhancement of adequate housing
stock for low-income and moderate-income persons as set forth in this
subchapter.
(KRS 80.020)
§ 35.11 MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS, AND TERMS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, the Housing
Commission shall consist of the Mayor, ex officio, and four (4) persons
appointed by him with the approval of the City Council.
      (2)   If the Housing Commission has agreed to accept a transfer or full
transfer of ownership and operation of another city's public housing program
pursuant to the United States Housing Act of 1937, the Housing Commission shall
consist of the Mayor, ex officio, or the Mayor's designee; four (4) persons
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of City Council; and one (1)
additional person appointed by each Mayor of a city divesting itself of its
authority, with the approval of that city's legislative body. (KRS 80.030)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Each person appointed to the Housing Commission shall be
at least twenty-five (25) years of age and a bona fide resident of the city for
at least one (1) year preceding the appointment. No officer or employee of the
city, whether holding a paid or unpaid office, is eligible to hold an
appointment on the Housing Commission. Appointees to the Housing Commission
shall be originally appointed for terms of four (4) years. Upon the expiration
of the term of the first appointees, their successors shall be appointed for
terms of one, two, three, and four years, respectively, and upon the expiration
of the term of each of the second group of appointees his successor shall be
appointed for a term of four (4) years. Vacancies shall be filled for unexpired
terms in the same manner as the original appointment.
         (b)   If the Housing Commission has agreed to accept a transfer or
full transfer of ownership and operation of another city's public housing
program pursuant to the United States Housing Act of 1937, a Housing Commission
member appointed by the Mayor of the divesting city, as set out in division (A)
above, shall be a resident of the city divesting itself of authority.
      (2)   (a)   If the Housing Commission has not agreed to accept a transfer
or full transfer of ownership and operation of another city's public housing
program pursuant to the United States Housing Act of 1937, then no more than
two (2) appointees on the Housing Commission shall be affiliated with the same
political party.
         (b)   If the Housing Commission has agreed to accept a transfer or
full transfer of ownership and operation of another city's public housing
program pursuant to the United States Housing Act of 1937, and:
            1.   Has an even number of members, then no more than one-half of
the appointees on the Housing Commission shall be affiliated with the same
political party; or
            2.   Has an odd number of members, then no more than one-half of
the appointees plus one (1) member of the Housing Commission shall be
affiliated with the same political party. (KRS 80.040)
§ 35.12 CORPORATE POWERS; OFFICERS.
   (A)   The persons appointed as provided in §
35.11 shall constitute a body corporate in the name of the Housing Commission
of the city, with power to contract and be contracted with, to sue or be sued,
and to adopt a seal and alter it at will.
   (B)   The Housing Commission may establish bylaws, rules, and regulations
for its own government.
(KRS 80.050)
   (C)   In addition to the powers, duties, and responsibilities specifically
enumerated in this subchapter, the Housing Commission shall have all the
powers, duties, and responsibilities and shall be subject to all the
limitations set forth in KRS 80.020 through 80.257, inclusive.
   (D)   The Housing Commission shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-
Chairperson from its members and a Secretary and Treasurer who need not be a
member of the Housing Commission. The duties of the offices of Secretary and
Treasurer may be performed by the same person.
(KRS 80.050)
§ 35.13 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS AND OFFICERS.
   (A)   Each member of the Housing Commission, except an ex officio member,
may receive compensation either as a salary or as payment for meetings
attended. The compensation of members of the Housing Commission shall be fixed
by the City Council. The Housing Commission shall fix the compensation of the
Secretary and Treasurer, but the City Council may fix or limit the salary.
   (B)   If the Housing Commission has agreed to accept a transfer or full
transfer of ownership and operation of another city's public housing program
pursuant to the United States Housing Act of 1937, the city may enter into an
interlocal agreement pursuant to KRS 65.210 to 65.300 with the city that is
divesting itself of the authority, agreeing to pay all or a portion of the
compensation of the member representing that divesting city. (KRS 80.060)
§ 35.14 MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE NOT TO BE INTERESTED IN PROJECT.
   No member, or employee of the Housing Commission shall acquire any interest,
direct or indirect, in any project or in any property including or planned to
be included in any project, nor shall he have any interest, direct or indirect,
in any contract or proposed contract for materials or services to be furnished
or used in connection with any project. If any member or employee of the
Housing Commission owns or controls an interest, direct or indirect, in any
property included in any project, which interest was acquired prior to his
appointment or employment, he shall disclose the same in writing to the Housing
Commission at the time of his appointment and the disclosure shall be entered
upon the minutes of the Housing Commission.
(KRS 80.080)
§ 35.15 REMOVAL OF MEMBER.
   Whenever it appears to the appointing officer that a member of the Housing
Commission appointed by him is incompetent or guilty of neglect of duty or
malfeasance, the appointing officer shall require the member to appear before
him to show cause why he should not be removed from office. At least fifteen
(15) days' written notice of the hearing shall be given to the member whose
conduct is in question and to all other members of the Housing Commission. At
the hearing the member may be represented by counsel and may appear personally
and present such pertinent evidence as he wishes or as the appointing officer
requests. If after the hearing the appointing officer determines that a member
has been incompetent or has been guilty of neglect of duty or malfeasance, he
shall remove the member from the Commission within seven (7) days, and there
shall be a vacancy of the office.
(KRS 80.090)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 35.25 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Planning Commission, see § 152.10 through
152.17.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the Police Department for the city.
(Ord. 1-1999, passed 2-8-99)
§ 35.36 POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   There is hereby reaffirmed the office of the Chief of Police of the
city.
   (B)   The powers and duties of this office are hereby established as
follows:
      (1)   Plans, organizes, directs, coordinates and evaluates the activities
and programs of the Police Department.
      (2)   Formulates departmental policies, procedures, rules and
regulations, following consultation with higher authority and subordinate
officers.
      (3)   Develops organizational structure of the department in accordance
with professional standards and the policies of City Council.
      (4)   Prepares and authorizes work schedules.
      (5)   Furnishes technical advice on police problems.
      (6)   Maintains constant surveillance of criminal and traffic reports in
addition to activity reports.
      (7)   Initiates corrective action when and where necessary.
      (8)   Supervises and evaluates the use of police equipment.
      (9)   Instructs, disciplines and evaluates department personnel.
      (10)   Reviews and recommends acceptable standards and procedures for the
recruitment, selection, promotion and training of departmental personnel.
      (11)   Authorizes purchase requisitions and supplies and equipment for
the department.
      (12)   Confers with representative of federal, state and local agencies
on various police problems.
      (13)   Prepares memoranda and reports on activities of the department,
orally and in writing, and supervises others in the preparation of reports.
      (14)   Attends all Council meetings.
      (15)   Receives complaints from the general public.
      (16)   Studies and reviews all laws, official opinions and guidelines.
      (17)   Maintains a proper record system pertaining to citations, arrests
and investigations, and makes same available to the members of the City Council
upon request.
      (18)   Participates in approved law enforcement courses and schedules
subordinates for such training.
      (19)   Represents the department as needed.
      (20)   Develops and conducts an effective public relations program.
   (C)   Compensation for this office shall be paid at the weekly/biweekly/
monthly/annual rate as established by ordinance of the City Council.
   (D)   The employment plan of the city shall apply to this office.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall execute a bond to the city in the amount of
five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (F)   The Chief of Police shall report to the City Council, on a regular
basis, which may be changed from time to time by the Council.
(Ord. 1-1999, passed 2-8-99)
§ 35.37 POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   The office of city police officer is hereby established.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the office of city police officer shall be as
stated in the adopted position description for said position as contained in
the classification plan for city employees, or as otherwise provided by the
City Council.
   (C)   The individual holding the position of city police officer shall take
the following oath upon assuming office:
I, (state your name), do solemnly swear to faithfully execute the duties and
fulfill the responsibilities of the office of city police officer to the very
best of my abilities and with honesty, dependability and integrity, I do
solemnly swear to uphold, in the conduct of my office, all ordinances of the
city of Owingsville and all laws of the Commonwealth of Kentucky and of the
government of the United States. I do further solemnly swear to conduct myself
at all times with a dignity of purpose and manner which will bring to the
citizens of the city of Owingsville.
   (D)   The city police officer shall, before entering the duties of office,
execute a bond to the city in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00),
conditioned for the faithful performance of duties, including duties of all
offices of which he is ex officio incumbent. The bond shall be approved by the
City Council.
   (E)   The individual holding the position of city police officer shall be
compensated for his efforts in accordance with the adopted pay plan, or as
otherwise provided by the City Council.
(Ord. 1-1999, passed 2-8-99)
§ 35.38 KENTUCKY LAW ENFORCEMENT FOUNDATION PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   The city will make application for participation in the Kentucky Law
Enforcement Foundation Program Fund Training Incentive Program.
   (B)   If accepted for participation in the fund, the city shall comply with
KRS 15.410 through 15.510, the general conditions contained in the application,
and such further rules, regulations and policies as may be reasonably
prescribed by the Kentucky Department of Justice.
(Ord. 1-1999, passed 2-8-99)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   For provisions concerning the Volunteer Fire Department, see
Chapter 36.
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 35.60 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Department of Public Works in the city.
§ 35.61 SUPERINTENDENT OF THE PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   The Public Works Department will be headed by the Superintendent of the
Public Works Department who shall be appointed by the Mayor and who shall serve
at his pleasure. For provisions concerning the Superintendent of the Public
Works Department, see employment policy
Chapter 37.
§ 35.62 DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT.
   The Public Works Department, under the supervision of the Superintendent,
shall supervise the operation, repair, and maintenance of the water and
wastewater treatment plants, lift stations, distribution lines, swimming pool,
and other city property; plus insure proper maintenance of city streets, storm
sewers, culverts, drainage ditches and road signs.
RECREATIONAL, TOURIST AND CONVENTION COMMISSION
§ 35.70 CREATION OF COMMISSION. 
   There is created, pursuant to KRS 91A.350 and 91A.360, the Recreational,
Tourist, and Convention Commission, which Commission is established for the
purpose of promoting recreational, tourist, and convention activity in the
city.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 35.71 COMPENSATION; NUMBER OF MEMBERS. 
   The Commission shall be composed of seven members who shall serve without
compensation and who shall be citizens, residents, and voters of the city, and
who shall be appointed by the Mayor as follows:
   (A)   Two Commissioners from a list of not less than three names submitted
by the local city hotel and motel association.
   (B)   One Commissioner from a list of not less than three names submitted by
the local county hotel and motel association.
   (C)   One Commissioner from a list of not less than three names submitted by
the local restaurant association or associations.
   (D)   One Commissioner from a list of not less than three names submitted by
the city Chamber of Commerce.
   (E)   Two Commissioners to be appointed by the Mayor of the City.
   (F)   In the absence of any of the above-named associations, or in the event
that any association fails to submit the list, the Mayor of the city shall make
the necessary appointment(s) so that the Commission shall at all times be
composed of seven members.
   (G)   In the event that the city should ever organize a joint city-county
Recreational, Tourist, and Convention Commission, then the appointments shall
be made in conformity with KRS Chapter 91A.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 35.72 VACANCIES. 
   Vacancies in the Commission shall be filled by requesting a list from the
organization originally recommending and by selection from the list by the
Mayor.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 35.73 LENGTH OF TERMS. 
   The Commissioners shall be appointed for terms of three years, provided that
in making the initial appointments the Mayor shall appoint two Commissioners
for a term of three years, two Commissioners for a term of two years, and three
Commissioners for a term of one year.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 35.74 RECOMMENDATIONS MADE EACH YEAR. 
   Each year, beginning with the year 2003, the City Clerk shall request each
of the above-listed organizations, if in existence, to submit to the City Clerk
its list of recommendations for the Commissioners; the lists to be submitted
not later than November 30 of each year. In the event that the organizations or
associations fail to submit the lists to the City Clerk by November 30 of each
year, after having received written request at least 30 days prior to November
30 to submit the lists; the Mayor of the city may appoint to the Commission any
citizen, resident, and voter of the city. The appointments shall be made by the
mayor to the Commission not later than December 10 of each year, beginning with
the year 2003.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 35.75 ELECTION OF OFFICERS. 
   The Commission shall annually elect from its membership a chairman, a
secretary, and a treasurer, and may employ such personnel and make such
contracts as are necessary to effectively carry out the purpose of KRS 91A.350
and 91A.360. The contracts may include, but shall not be limited to, the
procurement of promotional services, advertising services, and other services
and materials relating to the promotion of recreational, tourist, and
convention business; provided contracts of the type enumerated shall be made
only with persons, organizations, and firms with experience and qualifications
for providing promotional services and materials such as advertising firms,
chambers of commerce, publishers, and printers.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 35.76 MEETINGS TO BE HELD. 
   The Commission shall meet at such regular sessions as shall be established
by the Commission, and may hold any other meetings as are necessary to transact
the business. Special meetings may be called by the chairman or by written call
of any two Commissioners. A majority of the membership of the Commission shall
constitute a quorum for transacting business, but a majority vote, in person,
of the entire membership of the Commission shall be required to take any
official action or to approve any contract.
§ 35.77 ANNUAL REQUEST FOR FUNDS. 
   The Commission shall annually submit to the city, not later than May 1 of
each year, a request for funds for the operation of the Commission and a
proposed budget for the ensuing fiscal year beginning on the first day of July.
The proposed budget shall be approved, disapproved, or modified by the City
Council as the City Council may determine. Thereafter, the city shall include
the Commission in the annual budget of the city.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 35.78 TRANSIENT ROOM TAX. 
   For the purpose of the operation of the Recreational, Tourist, and
Convention Commission herein established and to finance the cost of
acquisition, construction, operation, and maintenance of facilities useful in
the attraction and promotion of recreational, tourist, and convention business,
there is imposed and levied a transient room tax of 3% of the rent for every
occupancy of a suite, room, or rooms charged by all persons, companies,
corporations, and other like or similar persons, groups, or organizations doing
business as motor courts, motels, hotels, inns, or like or similar
accommodation businesses in the city.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 35.79 RESTAURANT GROSS RETAIL TAX. 
   For the purpose of the operation of the Recreational, Tourist, and
Convention Commission herein established and to finance the cost of
acquisition, construction, operation, and maintenance of facilities useful in
the attraction and promotion of recreational, tourist, and convention business,
there is imposed and levied a special tax of 2.0% of the gross sales of
restaurants doing business in the city.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03; Am. Ord. 5-2010, passed 6-28-10)
§ 35.80 QUARTERLY PAYMENT OF TAXES. 
   (A)   On or after July 1, 2003, every person, company, corporation, or other
like or similar person, group, or organization doing business as a motor court,
motel, hotel, inn, or other like or similar accommodation business in the city
shall pay quarterly into the city treasury for periods ending December 31,
March 31, June 30, and September 30, of each year, a transient room tax of 3 %
of the gross rent for every occupancy of a suite, room, or rooms charged and
collected by such business during the quarterly periods. The tax shall be due
and payable on or before the last day of the month next following the last day
of each such quarterly period, together with a return on a form furnished by or
obtained from the City Clerk setting forth an aggregate amount of gross rentals
charged and collected during the preceding quarter for every room to which the
transient room tax applies, together with such other pertinent information as
the City Clerk may require.
   (B)   On or after July 1, 2003, every person, company, corporation, or other
like, or similar persons, groups, or organization doing business as restaurants
located in the city shall pay quarterly into the city treasurer for periods
ending December 31, March 31, June 30, and September 30, of each year, 1 % of
the gross retail sales of the restaurant of prepared food, elected by such
business during the quarter. Gross sales is defined herein as excluding state
sales tax. This tax shall be due and payable on or before the last day of the
month next following the last day of each quarterly period, together with a
return on a form furnished by or obtained from the City Clerk, setting forth
the aggregate amount of gross sales charged and collected during the preceding
quarter to which the tax applies, together with such other pertinent
information as the city may require.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 35.81 DEFINITION OF RESTAURANT. 
   As used in this chapter, restaurant means any fixed or mobile commercial
establishment that engages in the preparation and serving of ready to eat foods
in portions to the consumer, including but not limited to: restaurants, coffee
shops, cafeterias, short order cafes, luncheonettes, grills, tearooms, sandwich
shops, soda fountains, roadside stands, street vendors, catering kitchens,
delicatessens, or similar places in which food is prepared for sale or
consumption on the premises or elsewhere. It does not include school cafeterias
which are operated by the school system and not an independent corporation,
food vending machines, or temporary vendors, charitable or non-profit
organizations.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 35.82 INTEREST ON UNPAID TAX. 
   Any tax imposed by §§
35.70 through
35.80 which shall remain unpaid after it becomes due, as set forth herein,
shall have added to it a penalty of $100, together with interest at the rate of
1% for each month of delinquency, or fraction thereof, until paid. In addition
any person, business, corporation, firm, or other entity subject to the
transient room tax and/or restaurant tax who fails or refuses to file the
required return and/or pay the tax due shall be subject to the following
enforcement remedies:
   (A)   Any person or entity becoming 30 days or more delinquent in filing the
return and/or paying the tax shall after written notice mailed regular or
certified mail have its occupation license revoked;
   (B)   Any person or entity becoming 90 days or more delinquent in filing the
return and/or paying the tax may after written notice mailed regular or
certified mail have its city provided water service terminated without any
other additional notice. Service will be reconnected after the return is filed
and tax due thereunder is paid in full;
   (C)   Further, a lien is granted unto the city upon all property, real or
personal, of any person, business, corporation, firm, or other entity subject
to the transient room tax and/or restaurant tax to secure the unpaid tax
receipts due from said entity. The lien shall be perfected by filing a notice
of tax due and statement of lien in the Office of the County Court Clerk,
describing the property on which the lien is asserted.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03; Am. Ord. 12-2007, passed 1-14-08; Am. Ord. 1-
2011, passed 3-14-11)
§ 35.83 EXCEPTIONS. 
   (A)   The tax imposed by §§
35.70 through
35.80 shall not apply to rentals paid on occupancies in excess of seven
consecutive days.
   (B)   The tax imposed by §§
35.70 through
35.80 shall be in addition to other general taxes, ad valorem taxes, and any
other occupational or business license tax imposed by the city.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
§ 35.84 EXAMINATION OF BOOKS, PAPERS, RECORDS AUTHORIZED. 
   (A)   The Director of Finance or any agent or employee designated in writing
by him or the Mayor is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers, and
records of any person, company, corporation, or other like or similar person,
group or organization doing business in the city as a motor court, motel,
hotel, inn, or other like or similar accommodation business, to determine the
accuracy of any return made, and if no return was made, to ascertain the amount
of transient room tax imposed by the terms of this chapter. Each business
operator or owner is hereby directed and required to give to the Director of
Finance or any agent or employee authorized by him or the Mayor, the means,
facilities, and opportunity for the examination and investigation as authorized
by this section.
   (B)   The Director of Finance or any agent or employee designated in writing
by him or the Mayor is hereby authorized to examine any person under oath
concerning occupancy of suites or rooms. For this purpose he may compel the
production of books, papers, records, and the attendance of all persons before
him, whether as parties or witnesses, whom he believes to have knowledge
concerning the occupancy of suites or rooms, to the extent that any officer
empowered to administer oaths in this Commonwealth is permitted to so order.
(Ord. 03-2003, passed 4-14-03)
CHAPTER 36: VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Title; purpose
   
36.02   Membership
   
36.03   Companies
   
36.04   Business meetings
   
36.05   Elections
   
36.06   Scope and effect of regulations
   
36.07   Amendments to regulations
Boards, Committees, and Officers
   
36.15   Procedures Board
   
36.16   Committees
   
36.17   Selection and removal of officers
   
36.18   Duties of Fire Chief
   
36.19   Duties of Assistant Fire Chief
   
36.20   Duties of the Captains
   
36.21   Duties of the Secretary
   
36.22   Duties of the Treasurer
Firefighters
   
36.30   Qualifications; probationary period
   
36.31   Candidacy for membership
   
36.32   General duties of firefighters
Department Regulations
   
36.40   Required complement of firefighters
   
36.41   Uniforms
   
36.42   Use of breathing equipment
   
36.43   Prerequisites for operation of fire equipment
   
36.44   Safe operation of vehicles
   
36.45   Allowing nonmembers to ride equipment
   
36.46   Following fire truck prohibited
   
36.47   Duty roster
   
36.48   Front line pumper
   
36.49   Absence from meetings; mandatory training
   
36.50   Department spokespersons
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This organization shall be known as the Owingsville Volunteer Fire
Department.
   (B)   Its purpose shall be the prevention of fires, the preservation and the
protection of life and property from and during fires, or other life
endangering situations as they may occur within or adjacent to the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   The total membership of the Volunteer Fire Department shall not exceed 25
certified individuals. This number (total) may be changed temporarily when it
is determined by the Procedures Board that such change would be in the best
interest of the Department. The total complement of members shall return to 25
certified firefighters and remain as such or until changed, as aforementioned
with the next resignation or expulsion of a member from the Department.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.03 COMPANIES.
   (A)   For training purposes, the Volunteer Fire Department shall consist of
two engine companies numbered one and two. The composition of these companies
shall remain intact until changed at the discretion of the Fire Chief,
Assistant Fire Chief, and training officer. These officers shall also appoint
the members of these companies.
   (B)   Each company shall consist of one Captain and an even distribution of
firefighters as appropriate and available. Each company shall be assigned a
specific truck by the Fire Chief for each drill and shall be responsible for
the maintenance of the apparatus until further notice.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.04 BUSINESS MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular business meeting of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be
held every second and fourth Tuesday of each month at 7:00 p.m. On other
Tuesdays a training drill may be conducted if the training officer sets up the
schedule in advance.
   (B)   All questions regarding procedure in meetings shall be decided
according to the rules set forth in Roberts' Rules of Order, as revised.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.05 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   All regular elections shall be held during the first business meeting
in November. The term of office shall be for one year for all elected officers.
The one-year term is from January l to December 31.
   (B)   In any situation in which a vote of members must be taken, the vote
will be by show of hands unless a secret ballot vote is called for by any one
of the complement of members.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.06 SCOPE AND EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations set forth herein supersede all previous verbal and
written controls or regulations. No firefighter shall take it upon himself to
direct or give any order to a fellow firefighter in regard to his equipment,
conduct, or turning in of equipment, and the like. This will be done by the
Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief after a discussion has been held and voted
on by the members. A firefighter may be appointed by the Fire Chief or
Assistant Fire Chief to relay messages to the party or parties involved. No
firefighter is to provide information to any insurance company, newspaper, or
individual property owner as to the cause of fire unless established on the run
sheet.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.07 AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS.
   Any amendment to this chapter shall be made by ordinance and enacted by the
City Council.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
BOARDS, COMMITTEES, AND OFFICERS
§ 36.15 PROCEDURES BOARD.
   The purpose of the Procedures Board shall be to act on all violations of the
regulations contained herein and to set forth written procedures for the
operation of the Volunteer Fire Department.
   (A)   The Procedures Board shall have the responsibility to suspend members,
and recommend expulsion of a member for violation of these bylaws. Expulsion of
any member requires a two-thirds vote of the membership.
   (B)   This Board shall be composed of six members of the Volunteer Fire
Department who are full members (not on probation or apprenticeship). Election
shall be for one year and shall take place at the same time other officers are
elected. The Secretary shall attend the meetings of the Procedures Board to
keep a permanent record, but shall not vote in any matter brought before the
Procedures Board.
   (C)   The Procedures Board shall meet at the second business meeting of each
month one-half hour before the meeting time of the general meeting.
   (D)   The disposition of all action taken by the Procedures Board shall be
posted in a conspicious place on the Volunteer Fire Department bulletin board.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.16 COMMITTEES.
   Such other committees may be appointed as deemed necessary to discharge
Department functions by the Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief with the
consent of the general membership present by a two-thirds majority vote of the
same.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.17 SELECTION AND REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   A Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief shall be appointed annually by
the Mayor with the approval of the City Council as a nonelected city office
pursuant to § 31.35. The Fire Chief and officers will concern themselves with
the fighting and the prevention of fires. The Fire Chief and his subordinate
officers or other designated qualified firefighters will occupy the passenger's
seat of either pumper. They will be in charge of the fire scene until relieved
by a higher ranking officer. When the fire is out, the commanding officer will
secure the scene and see to the rearming of the pumper for the next run. The
Fire Chief, Assistant Fire Chief, and all subordinate officers shall have a
minimum of 150 certified hours and three years actual firefighting experience.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief may be removed by the Mayor
pursuant to § 31.35(C).
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 7-2007, passed 8-13-07)
§ 36.18 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to preside at all regular and
special meetings, preserve order, and to decide all points of order that may
arise. Also the Fire Chief shall see that a copy of all records needed to keep
fire insurance rating, and safety of firefighters, and fire runs be turned into
the City Clerk/Treasurer for a permanent filing of records after each activity
as soon as possible thereafter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to take charge of all fire
apparatus and equipment and to see that each subordinate officer fulfills his
duty. The Fire Chief shall have the power to call those special meetings as he
deems necessary. He shall also issue a call for a special meeting upon request
of six or more members; 24 hours notice of a special meeting must be given to
all members.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.19 DUTIES OF ASSISTANT FIRE CHIEF.
   It shall be the duty of the Assistant Fire Chief to perform the duties of
the Fire Chief in the case of the absence of the Fire Chief and to aid him in
every way possible at all times. The Assistant Fire Chief shall be required to
have the full requirements of the Fire Chief that he might perform the duties
of the Fire Chief in his absence.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.20 DUTIES OF THE CAPTAINS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Captains to command their respective
companies, and their orders shall be explicitly followed. The Captain shall be
subject to orders from the Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief and must give
ready and prompt obedience to those orders. It shall be the duty of each
Captain to oversee the general maintenance of their assigned fire apparatus and
equipment and to report any needed repairs or maintenance to the Fire Chief.
The assignment of their equipment may be for one or more months as shall be
determined by the total membership.
   (B)   The Captain of any apparatus or the officer in charge of that
apparatus at a fire shall be responsible to see that the fire run information
sheet is completely filled out and turned in to the officer in charge at the
fire house. Also, he must see that all hoses are washed and hung to dry and new
hose is replaced on that truck for the next run. He must also verify that the
truck is filled with water and gas.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.21 DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY.
   The Secretary of the Department shall maintain the minutes of each business
meeting, regular and called, and record of attendance at these meetings. He
shall also maintain a record of all fire calls. The record will include the
following: the date, time of call, time out, time in, place, and possible cause
of fire, and members reporting. This information shall be presented to the City
Council or County Fiscal Court upon request.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.22 DUTIES OF THE TREASURER.
   The Treasurer of the Department shall receive all money due the Volunteer
Fire Department and shall make distribution of those funds as may be necessary.
All debts of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be paid by the Treasurer after
approval of the members present at a regular business meeting. Other
expenditures must be approved by the Fire Chief or Assistant Fire Chief. This
position shall require that the individual be bonded in the amount of $10,000
prior to taking office.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
FIREFIGHTERS
§ 36.30 QUALIFICATIONS; PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   Any person of good moral character and standing and at least 18 years
of age shall be eligible for membership in the Volunteer Fire Department upon
acceptance by a vote of at least two-thirds of the members with a minimum of 12
members present.
   (B)   Any accepted applicant shall serve as an apprentice for a period of
six months and shall be issued a uniform upon completion of his 50 hours of
training, if a uniform is available.
   (C)   During the apprenticeship period, each applicant shall attend drills
and respond to fire alarms but will not be allowed to actually participate in
any emergency response unless for the purpose of watching and learning only,
until it has been verified that he has accumulated at least 50 hours of
certified training. After this period, this individual may actively participate
in all emergency functions of the Department as appointed. His assistance and
normal duties at the fire station will be utilized at all times.
   (D)   At the end of a probationary period, a member may be removed upon a
majority vote of the members present with a minimum of 12 present.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.31 CANDIDACY FOR MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Any member shall have the privilege of presenting the name or names of
candidates for election to membership in the Volunteer Fire Department.
   (B)   The Department shall accept applications for membership at any time
from eligible individuals. These applications shall be considered by the
Procedures Board at such time as an opening becomes available for membership.
Upon acceptance of the Procedures Board, the application will be presented to
the members present at a regular business meeting for voting purposes.
Acceptance upon two-thirds the majority vote (minimum 12 members present
required) will be required. The application will be submitted at one business
meeting and voted on at the next regular business meeting.
   (C)   The Procedures Board shall review any request for reinstatement of a
firefighter who has been expelled or who has resigned. The members shall then
be presented to the membership as provided for in division (B) above.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.32 GENERAL DUTIES OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   It shall be the first duty of all members of the Volunteer Fire
Department to obey all just and proper commands of their officers while on
duty.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of members to be prompt at all meetings and, when
possible, on every alarm of fire to assemble at the station house without delay
and assist in getting the apparatus to the fire and in operation as soon as
possible.
   (C)   No member shall appear at the meetings of the Department or on duty in
a state of intoxication, or shall be guilty of using insulting, indecent, or
improper language, or be guilty of conduct unbecoming a gentleman, or otherwise
bring disgrace or criticism upon his company of the Department under the
penalty of expulsion from the Department.
   (D)   Each firefighter shall report to the fire station before proceeding to
the location of the fire unless designated differently by the officer in charge
at the station house.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS
§ 36.40 REQUIRED COMPLEMENT OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   On all fire calls within the city, a maximum of five firefighters will
be on the fire truck if available before leaving the station. There will be a
minimum of one dispatcher remaining at the fire house.
   (B)   The second truck responding to a call within the city must have at
least four firefighters before leaving the station. If ten or more firefighters
are at the scene of the fire, then only two are necessary to respond in the
second truck.
   (C)   Only one truck shall respond to a car fire, unless there is danger of
loss of life or other property or the responding truck requests assistance.
   (D)   On all fire calls outside the city limits, at least 13 firefighters
shall report to the fire station or report by other means established by the
Department before the truck leaves. Three firefighters are required on the
truck or escort and ten remaining on standby. The Fire Chief, Assistant Fire
Chief, or Captain shall proceed to the scene of the fire provided an officer
was not on the truck.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.41 UNIFORMS.
   (A)   All members shall wear the same uniform and insignia on their uniform.
The Department shall supply each member with the proper badge, uniform, and
other firefighting equipment. It will be the duty of the firefighter to
maintain all equipment in clean and useable condition at all times. The
equipment is to be used for Fire Department use only.
   (B)   Any firefighter attending a drill or reporting to a fire not in proper
uniform and without a valid excuse will be penalized appropriately by the
Procedures Board.
      (1)   The proper uniform for actual firefighting shall be full bunker
gear, including helmet, bunker coat, gloves, and boots.
      (2)   The proper uniform to be worn at drills and events shall be
established by the Procedures Board.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.42 USE OF BREATHING EQUIPMENT.
   Before any firefighter is to utilize a breathing apparatus, they must obey
the grooming code for safety and be qualified to use a breathing apparatus.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.43 PREREQUISITES FOR OPERATION OF FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   No member shall drive a fire apparatus without a valid Kentucky operator's
license. No member under 21 years of age shall drive a fire apparatus in any
emergency situation. Any member who is under 21 years of age shall not drive a
fire apparatus at drills, unless designated to do so by an officer who directly
supervises this individual. No member shall drive a fire apparatus while
injured or sick to the point that it might hinder his driving ability.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.44 SAFE OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   No member shall exceed a safe reasonable speed en route to the station in
response to a fire call. No traffic-control device shall be violated unless the
firefighter's vehicle is equipped with the proper light and siren and then only
if the right-of-way is clear. In any instance, the firefighter shall use good
judgment with due regard for life and property in proceeding to the station and
in driving a fire apparatus. The Procedures Board may levy a penalty against
any member violating these rules.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
                    
Statutory reference:
   Equipping members' vehicle with flashing lights and siren, see KRS 189.950
(4)
§ 36.45 ALLOWING NONMEMBERS TO RIDE EQUIPMENT.
   No officer or member of the Volunteer Fire Department shall cause or allow
any person to ride on or about the fire apparatus who is not a member of the
Department. A nonmember may be allowed to ride on the apparatus during official
functions of the community when the nonmember is under the direct supervision
of an officer of the Department. No nonmember shall assist or attempt to assist
Fire Department members in any manner in the utilization of Fire Department
equipment under any circumstances.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.46 FOLLOWING FIRE TRUCK PROHIBITED.
   No firefighter or officer shall follow the fire truck responding to a call
outside the city limits unless assistance is requested by the officer in charge
at the fire station. An appropriate penalty may be imposed by the Procedures
Board for this offense.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.47 DUTY ROSTER.
   In order to ensure that every possible consideration has been taken for
proper response to emergency situations and that the best possible judgment in
the use of fire apparatus is taken, a list of all members who will drive and
operate the fire apparatus shall be established and maintained by a two-thirds
vote of the Department. Any member assigned a duty shall continue that duty
until properly relieved; for example, a driver shall man the pump until ordered
to change by a commanding officer.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.48 FRONT LINE PUMPER.
   A front line pumper will remain in the city at all times. Truck Number 3 may
leave the city only by approval of the Mayor or his designee.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 36.49 ABSENCE FROM MEETINGS; MANDATORY TRAINING.
   (A)   Any member absent from three successive meetings without an excuse
approved by the Procedures Board shall be subject to the disciplinary action of
the Procedures Board up to and including a recommendation made to the
membership for expulsion of this member. A member must attend 20 hours of
training a year. Failure to do so shall make this member subject to
disciplinary action of the Procedures Board up to and including a
recommendation made to the membership for expulsion of that member.
   (B)   Attendence shall be recorded at the end of each fire practice and no
firefighter absent at this time without permission of the officer in charge
shall receive credit for the fire drill. In the absence of the Fire Chief and
the Assistant Fire Chief, another officer will be appointed to be in charge.
The training officer or his assistant shall carry out training programs as they
see fit during the year.
§ 36.50 DEPARTMENT SPOKESPERSONS.
   No firefighter shall act as a formal spokesperson for the Volunteer Fire
Department to any group, organization, or individual regarding the Department
or any referenced subject of the Department except as follows. A committee or a
majority of the members present at a business meeting may appoint any member or
members to act as a spokesperson.
(Ord. 9-1986, passed 10-9-86)
CHAPTER 37: HUMAN RESOURCES
Section
   
37.01   Employment policies adopted by reference
§ 37.01 EMPLOYMENT POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The employment policies, employee classification plan, and pay plan adopted
by Ordinance 230.2, passed 3-3-86, shall be the system of employment
administration of the city. These policies are hereby adopted and made a part
of this code as if set out in full herein. A copy of the policies, and any
amendments thereto, shall be available for inspection in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer during normal business hours.
(Ord. 230.2, passed 3-3-86; Am. Ord. 1-1987, passed 2-2-87; Am. Ord. 7-1988,
passed 7-19-88; Am. Ord. 1-1990, passed 2-5-90, Am. Ord. 14-1990, passed 1-7-
91; Am. Ord. 1-1996, passed 3-18-96; Am. Ord. 5-1996, passed 4-23-96; Am. Ord.
7-1996, passed 4-23-96; Am. Ord. 3-1998, passed 6-23-98; Am. Ord. 2-1999,
passed 6-14-99; Am. Ord. 3-2000, passed 7-10-00; Am. Ord. 3-2001, passed 6-11-
01; Am. Ord. 4-2001, passed 6-11-01; Am. Ord. 6-2001, passed 7-9-01; Am. Ord.
4-2009, passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord. 6-2009, passed 6-29-09; Am. Ord. 10-2009,
passed 12-14-09; Am. Ord. 1-2010, passed 4-12-10; Am. Ord. 2-2011, passed 3-14-
11; Am. Ord. 1-2014, passed 4-14-14)
CHAPTER 38: TAXATION
Section
   
38.01   County assessment adopted
   
38.02   Due date; payment
   
38.03   Delinquency
   
38.04   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles
   
38.05   Disposition of funds
§ 38.01 COUNTY ASSESSMENT ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted in KRS 132.285, the city hereby
adopts the annual Bath County assessment for all real and personal property
situated within the city as the basis of all ad valorem tax levies ordered or
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The assessment as finally determined for county tax purposes shall
serve as the basis for all city levies for the fiscal year commencing after the
assessment date.
(Ord., passed 9-17-85)
§ 38.02 DUE DATE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   All taxes, except ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles, shall become due
on December 31.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who pays his city taxes on or before December 31, 2021
shall be entitled to a 2% discount thereon, and the City Clerk/Treasurer shall
allow the discount and give a receipt in full to the taxpayer.
(Ord., passed 9-17-85; Am. Ord. 9-1992, passed 11-10-92; Am. Ord. 13-1993,
passed 11-24-93; Am. Ord. 7-1994, passed 10-10-94; Am. Ord. 5-1995, passed 10-
16-1995; Am. Ord. 12-1996, passed 11-11-96; Am. Ord. 4- 1997, passed 11-10-97;
Am. Ord. 10-1998, passed 10-19-98; Am. Ord. 8-1999, passed 9-27-99; Am. Ord. 7-
2000, passed 11-13-00; Am. Ord. 11-2001, passed 11-12-01; Am. Ord. 9-2002,
passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. 17- 2003, passed 12-1-04; Am. Ord. 5-2004, passed 11-
08-04; Am. Ord. 12-2005, passed 1-12-06; Am. Ord. 6-2006, passed 11-21-06; Am.
Ord. 10-2007, passed 11-19-07; Am. Ord. 10-2008, passed 11-11-08; Am. Ord. 9-
2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 10-2010, passed 10-11-10; Am. Ord. 8-2011,
passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. 8-2012, passed 10-8-12, Am. Ord. 5-2013, passed 10-
14-13; Am. Ord. 5-2014, passed 10-17-14; Am. Ord. 10-2015, passed 10- 16-15;
Am. Ord. 7-2016, passed 10-25-16; Am. Ord. 7-2017, passed 10-20- 17; Am. Ord.
3-2018, passed 11-12-18; Am. Ord. 5-2018, passed 1-14-19; Am. Ord. 8-2019,
passed 10-25-19; Am. Ord. 10-2019, passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord. 4-2020, passed 10-
12-2020; Am. Ord. 4-2021, passed 11-14-21)
§ 38.03 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All tax bills not paid on or before January 31, 2022 will become
delinquent on February 1, 2022.
   (B)   All delinquent bills will bear a penalty of 10% until February 28,
2022. On March 1, 2022 all delinquent bills will bear a 20% penalty until June
30, 2022. Thereafter, a 25% penalty will be added every six- month period the
bill remains delinquent.
   (C)   The city may publish a list of uncollected delinquent taxes levied
under § 181 of the Kentucky Constitution, showing the name of and the amount
due from each delinquent taxpayer, to be advertised by newspaper publication. A
fee of ten dollars ($10) per name per publication shall be added to the amount
of each tax claim published as publication costs.
   (D)   KRS 134.420 gives each city a lien on the property assessed for taxes
due the city for 11 years following the date when the taxes become delinquent.
The lien includes all interest, penalties, fees commissions, charges, costs
reasonable attorney's fees, and other expenses incurred by reason of the
delinquency in payment of the tax bill or in the process of collecting it. The
lien also has priority over all other liabilities of the property.
(Ord. passed 9-17-85; Am. Ord. 9-1992, passed 11-10-92; Am. Ord. 13-1993,
passed 11-24-93; Am. Ord. 7-1994, passed 10-10-94; Am. Ord. 5-1995, passed 10-
16-95; Am. Ord. 12-1996, passed 11-11-96; Am. Ord. 4-1997, passed 11-10-97; Am.
Ord. 10-1998, passed 10-19-98; Am. Ord. 8-1999, passed 9-27-99; Am. Ord. 7-
2000, passed 11-13-00; Am. Ord. 11-2001, passed 11-12-01; Am. Ord. 9-2002,
passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. 17-2003, passed 12-1-04; Am. Ord. 5-2004, passed 11-
08-04; Am. Ord. 12-2005, passed 1-12-06; Am. Ord. 6-2006, passed 11-21-06; Am.
Ord. 10-2007, passed 11-19-07; Am. Ord. 10-2008, passed 11-11-08; Am. Ord. 9-
2009, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 10-2010, passed 10-11-10; Am. Ord. 8-2011,
passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. 8-2012, passed 10-8-12, Am. Ord. 5-2013, passed 10-
14-13; Am. Ord. 5-2014, passed 10-17-14; Am. Ord. 10-2015, passed 10- 16-15;
Am. Ord. 7-2016, passed 10-25-16; Am. Ord. 7-2017, passed 10-20- 17; Am. Ord.
3-2018, passed 11-12-18; Am. Ord. 5-2018, passed 1-14-19; Am. Ord. 8-2019,
passed 10-25-19; Am. Ord. 10-2019, passed 1-13-20; Am. Ord. 4-2020, passed 10-
12-2020; Am. Ord. 4-2021, passed 11-14-21)
§ 38.04 AD VALOREM TAXES ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   All ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall be collected by the Bath
County Clerk in accordance with KRS 134.800.
   (B)   Ad valorem taxes on motor vehicles shall become due and delinquent as
set forth in KRS 134.810 and any such taxes not paid by the date when they
become delinquent shall be subject to the penalty and interest specified in KRS
134.810.
§ 38.05 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies collected from the taxes levied in this chapter shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper
expenditures as determined by the City Council.
CHAPTER 39: DISCRIMINATION BASED ON DISABILITY STATUS
Section
   
39.01   Adoption of procedures
   
39.02   Administration
   
39.03   Amendment
   
39.04   Procedures
§ 39.01 ADOPTION OF PROCEDURES.
   The procedures set forth in §
39.04 shall be the grievance procedures for anyone who believes he has been
discriminated against by the city based on disability status with respect to
federally funded programs.
(Ord., passed 10-1-84)
§ 39.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of these procedures and related federal and state
regulations shall be the responsibility of the Mayor.
(Ord., passed 10-1-84)
§ 39.03 AMENDMENT.
   These procedures may be amended by ordinance to comply with court directives
or additional federal and state regulations.
(Ord., passed 10-1-84)
§ 39.04 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any person (employee or citizen) who believes that he has been
subjected to discrimination as prohibited by the Federal Revenue Sharing
Program regulations and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, may
personally or by a representative, file a complaint with the office of the
Mayor. A person who has not personally been subjected to discrimination may
also file a complaint.
   (B)   When any person, (citizen, applicant, or employee) who believes he has
been adversely effected by an act or decision by the city, and that such act or
decision was based on disability status shall have the right to process a
complaint or grievance in accordance with the following procedure.
      (1)   Step One: Any aggrieved person must submit a written statement to
the Mayor setting forth the nature of the discrimination alleged and facts upon
which the allegation is based.
      (2)   Step Two: The Mayor shall contact the complaint no later than 15
days after receiving the written statement to establish an informal meeting
with the objective of resolving the matter informally. However, in no case
shall the informal meeting be conducted sooner that five days nor more than 45
days after receiving the written statement. There shall be prepared a written
document of the discussions at the informal meeting, which shall be preserved
in the records of the city.
      (3)   Step Three: Within 15 days of the informal meeting, if no decision
has been made by the Mayor or the decision of the Mayor does not satisfy the
complainant, he may request a hearing with the City Council by submitting a
written request to the Mayor.
      (4)   Step Four: In thus discussing the grievance, the complainant may
designate any person of his choice to appear with him and participate in the
discussion. The City Council shall require the Mayor to participate in the
discussion of the grievance, when it is brought before the City Council. The
City Council shall issue a written decision on the matter within 15 days, and
the decision shall be the final procedure for the complainant at the local
level. There shall be prepared a written document of the discussion at the
hearing, which shall be preserved in the records of the city.
(Ord., passed 10-1-84)
CHAPTER 40: CODE OF ETHICS
Section
General Provisions
   
40.01   Purpose and authority
   
40.02   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
40.10   Conflicts of interest in general
   
40.11   Conflicts of interest in contracts
   
40.12   Receipt of gifts
   
40.13   Use of city property, equipment, and personnel
   
40.14   Representation of interests before city governments
   
40.15   Misuse of confidential information
   
40.16   Post-employment restriction
   
40.17   Honoraria
   
40.18   Meeting attendance
Financial Disclosure
   
40.20   Who must file
   
40.21   When to file statements; amended statements
   
40.22   Form of the statement of financial interests
   
40.23   Control and maintenance of the statements of financial interests
   
40.24   Contents of the financial interests statement
   
40.25   Noncompliance with filing requirement
Nepotism
   
40.30   Nepotism prohibited
Enforcement
   
40.40   Board of Ethics created
   
40.41   Alternate members
   
40.42   Facilities and staff
   
40.43   Power and duties of the Board of Ethics
   
40.44   Filing and investigation of complaints
   
40.45   Notice of hearings
   
40.46   Hearing procedure
   
40.47   Appeals
   
40.48   Limitation of actions
   
40.49   Advisory opinions
   
40.50   Reprisals against persons disclosing violations prohibited
   
40.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 40.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a method of assuring that
standards of ethical conduct and financial disclosure requirements for officers
and employees of the city shall be clearly established, uniform in their
application and enforceable, and to provide the officers and employees of the
city with advice and information concerning potential conflicts of interest
which might arise in the conduct of their public duties.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to meet the requirements of
KRS 65.003 as enacted by the 1994 Kentucky General Assembly.
   (C)   This chapter is enacted under the power vested in the city by KRS
82.082 and pursuant to requirements of KRS 65.003.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this ordinance, unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
   “BUSINESS.” Any corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm,
enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual,
holding company, joint stock company, receivership, trust, professional service
corporation, or any legal entity through which business is conducted for
profit.
   “BOARD OF ETHICS” The City of Owingsville Board of Ethics which is created
and vested by this chapter with the responsibility of enforcing the
requirements of the city's code of ethics.
   “CANDIDATE.” Any individual who seeks nomination or election to an office
with the city. An individual is a candidate when the individual files a
notification and declaration for nomination for office with the County Clerk or
Secretary of State, or is nominated for office by a political party, or files a
declaration of intent to be a write-in candidate with the County Clerk or
Secretary of State.
   “CITY.” The City of Owingsville, Kentucky.
   “CITY AGENCY.” Any board, commission, authority, nonstock corporation, or
other entity created, either individually or jointly, by the city.
   “EMPLOYEE.” Any person, whether ful1-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is employed by or provides service to the city. The term “employee”
shall not include any contractor or subcontractor or any of their employees.
     “FAMILY MEMBER.” A parent, child, brother, sister, mother-in-law, father-
in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, grandparent or grandchild.
   “IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER.” An unemancipated child residing in the officer's
or employee's household, or a person claimed by the officer or employee, or the
officer's or employee's spouse, as a dependent for tax purposes.
   “OFFICER.” Any person, whether full-time or part-time, and whether paid or
unpaid, who is one of the following:
      (A)   The Mayor.
      (B)   A city council member.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 1-1995, passed 3-13-95)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 40.10 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN GENERAL.
   Every officer and employee of the city and every city agency shall comply
with the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   No officer or employee, or any immediate family member of any officer
or employee, shall have an interest in a business or engage in any business,
transaction or activity which is in substantial conflict with the proper
discharge of the officer's or employee's public duties.
   (B)   No officer or employee shall intentionally use or attempt to use his
or her official position with the city to secure unwarranted privileges or
advantages for himself or herself or others.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall intentionally take or refrain from taking
any discretionary action or agree to take or refrain from taking any
discretionary action or induce or attempt to induce any other officer or
employee to take or refrain from taking any discretionary action on any matter
before the city in order to obtain a financial benefit for any of the
following:
      (1)    The officer or employee.
      (2)    An outside employer.
      (3)   Any business in which the officer or employee, or any family member
has a financial interest.
      (4)   Any business with which the officer or employee or any family
member is negotiating or seeking prospective employment or other business or
professional relationship.
   (D)   No officer or employee shall be deemed in violation of any provision
in this section if, by reason of the officer's or employee's participation,
vote, decision, action or inaction, no financial benefit accrues to the officer
or employee, a family member, an outside employer, or a business as defined in
subsections (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section, as a member of any business,
occupation, profession, or other group, to any greater extent that any gain
could reasonably be expected to accrue to any other member of the business,
occupation, profession, or other group.
   (E)   Every officer or employee who has a prohibited financial interest
which the officer or employee believes or has reason to believe may be affected
by his or her participation, vote, decision or other action taken within the
scope of his or her public duties shall disclose the precise nature and value
of the interest, in writing, to the governing body of the city or city agency
served by the officer or employee, and the disclosure shall be entered on the
official record of the proceedings of the governing body. The officer or
employee shall refrain from taking any action with respect to the matter that
is the subject of the disclosure.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.11 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly
or through others undertake, execute, hold, or enjoy, in whole or in part, any
contract made, entered into, awarded, or granted by the city or a city agency
except as follows:
      (1)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
to contracts entered into before an elected officer filed as a candidate for
city office, before an appointed officer was appointed to a city or city
agency. However, if any contract entered into by a city or city agency officer
or employee before he or she became a candidate was appointed to office, or was
hired as an employee, is renewable after he or she becomes a candidate, assumes
the appointed office, or is hired as an employee, then the prohibition in
subsection (A) of this section shall apply to the renewal of the contract.
      (2)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
if the contract is awarded after public notice and competitive bidding, unless
the officer or employee is authorized to participate in establishing the
contract specifications, awarding the contract, or managing contract
performance after the contract is awarded. If the officer or employee has any
of the authorities set forth in the preceding sentence, then the officer or
employee shall have no interest in the contract, unless the requirements set
forth in subpart (3) below are satisfied.
      (3)   The prohibition in subsection (A) of this section shall not apply
in any case where the following requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The specific nature of the contract transaction and the nature
of the officer's or employee's interest in the contract are publicly disclosed
at the meeting of the city council of the city or city agency.
         (b)   The disclosure is made a part of the official record of the city
council or city agency before the contract is executed.
         (c)   A finding is made by the city council or city agency that the
contract with the officer or employee is in the best interests of the public
and the city or city agency because of price, limited supply, or other specific
reasons.
         (d)   The finding is made a part of the official record of the city
council or city agency before the contract is executed.
   (B)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a class A misdemeanor,
and upon conviction, the court may void any contract entered into in violation
of this section. Additionally, a violation of this section shall be grounds for
removal from office or employment with the city in accordance with any
applicable provisions of state law and ordinances, rules or regulations of the
city.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.12 RECEIPT OF GIFTS.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall directly, or
indirectly, through any other person or business, solicit or accept any gift
having a fair market value of more than one hundred dollars ($100), whether in
the form of money, service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or
promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which it could reasonably be
inferred that the gift is intended to influence or could reasonably be expected
to influence the officer or employee in the performance of his or her public
duties.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.13 USE OF CITY PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city shall use or permit the use of any
city time, funds, personnel, equipment, or other personal or real property for
the private use of any person, unless:
      (1)   The use is specifically authorized by a stated city policy.
      (2)   The use is available to the general public, and then only to the
extent and upon the terms that such use is available to the general public.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.14 REPRESENTATION OF INTERESTS BEFORE CITY GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall represent
any person or business, other than the city in connection with any cause,
proceeding, application or other matter pending before the city or any city
agency.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an employee from representing
another employee or employees where the representation is within the context of
official labor union or similar representational responsibilities.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any officer or employee from
representing himself or herself in matters concerning his or her own interests.
   (D)   No elected officer shall be prohibited by this section from making any
inquiry for information on behalf of a constituent, if no compensation, reward
or other thing of value is promised to, given to, or accepted by the officer,
whether directly or indirectly, in return for the inquiry.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.15 MISUSE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall intentionally
use or disclose information acquired in the course of his or her official
duties, if the primary purpose of the use or disclosure is to further his or
her personal financial interest or that of another person or business.
Information shall be deemed confidential if it is not subject to disclosure
pursuant to the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.872 to 61.884, at the time of
its use or disclosure.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.16 POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTION.
   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall appear or
practice before the city or any city agency with respect to any matter on which
the officer or employee personally worked while in the service of the city or
city agency for a period of one (1) year after the termination of the officer's
or employee's service with the city or city agency.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.17 HONORARIA.
   (A)   No officer or employee of city or a city agency shall accept any
compensation, honorarium or gift with a fair market value greater than $100 in
consideration of an appearance, speech or article unless the appearance, speech
or article is both related to the officer's or employee's activities outside of
municipal service and is unrelated to the officer's or employee's service with
the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency from receiving and retaining from the city or on behalf
of the city actual and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the
officer or employee in connection with an appearance, speech or article,
provided that the officer or employee can show by clear and convincing evidence
that the expenses were incurred or received on behalf of the city or city
agency and primarily for the benefit of the officer or employee or any other
person.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.18 MEETING ATTENDANCE.
   All elected city officers and members of city boards and commissions are
expected to attend their meetings. It is a violation of this code to miss more
than one-fourth (1/4) of the meetings in a twelve (12) month period, unless
good cause is shown.
(Ord. 3-2021, passed 9-13-2021)
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 40.20 WHO MUST FILE.
   The following classes of officers and employees of the city and city agency
shall file an annual statement of financial interests with the Board of Ethics:
   (A)   Elected city officials.
   (B)   Candidates for elected city office.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94; Am. Ord. 1-1995, passed 3-13-95)
§ 40.21 WHEN TO FILE STATEMENTS; AMENDED STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The initial statement of financial interests required by this section
shall be filed with the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official
designated as the custodian of its records by the Board of Ethics, no later
than 4:00 p.m., January 31, 1995. All statements of financial interest shall be
filed no later than 4:00 p.m. on January 31 of each year, provided that:
      (1)   An officer or employee newly-appointed to fill an office or
position of employment with the city or a city agency shall file his or her
initial statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the
appointment.
      (2)   A candidate for city office shall file his or her initial statement
no later than thirty (30) days after the date on which the person becomes a
candidate for elected city office.
   (B)   The Board of Ethics may grant a reasonable extension of time for
filing a statement of financial interests for good cause shown.
   (C)   In the event there is a material change in any information contained
in a financial statement that has been filed with the board, the officer or
employee shall, no later than thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the
material change, file an amended statement with the Board.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.22 FORM OF THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   The statement of financial interests shall be filed on a form prescribed by
the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated by the Board of
Ethics. The Board, or the designated administrative official, shall deliver a
copy of the form to each officer and employee required to file the statement,
by first class mail or hand delivery, no later than December 1 of each year.
The failure of the Board, or the designated administrative official, to deliver
a copy of the form to any officer or employee shall not relieve the officer or
employee of the obligation to file the statement.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.23 CONTROL AND MAINTENANCE OF THE STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL INTERESTS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics shall be the official custodian of the statements
of financial interests and shall have control over the maintenance of the
statements of financial interests. The statements of financial interest shall
be maintained by the Board of Ethics, or the administrative official designated
by the Board of Ethics as the “custodian,” as public documents, available for
public inspection immediately upon filing.
   (B)   A statement of financial interests shall be retained by the Board, or
the designated administrative official, for a period of five (5) years after
filing provided that:
      (1)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after a person ceases to be
an officer or employee of the city or a city agency, the Board shall cause to
be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of those
statements filed by the person.
      (2)   Upon the expiration of three (3) years after any election at which
a candidate for elected city office was not elected or nominated, the Board
shall cause to be destroyed any statements of financial interests or copies of
those statements filed by the person.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.24 CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS STATEMENT.
   (A)    The statement of financial interests shall include the following
information for the preceding calendar year:
      (1)   The name, current business address, business telephone number, and
home address of the filer.
      (2)   The title of the filer's office, office sought, or position of
employment.
      (3)   The occupation of the filer.
      (4)   Information that identifies each source of income of the filer
exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000) during the preceding calendar year and
the nature of the income (e.g., salary, commission, dividends, retirement fund
distribution, etc.)
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.25 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FILING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    The Board of Ethics or the designated administrative official, shall
notify by certified mail each person required to file a statement of financial
interest who fails to file the statement by the due date, files an incomplete
statement, or files a statement in a form other than that prescribed by the
Board. The notice shall specify the type of failure or delinquency, shall
establish a date by which the failure or delinquency shall be remedied, and
shall advise the person of the penalties for a violation.
   (B)    Any person who fails or refuses to file the statement or who fails or
refuses to remedy a deficiency in the filing identified in the notice under
subsection (A) within the time period established in the notice shall be guilty
of a civil offense and shall be subject to a civil fine imposed by the Board in
an amount not to exceed twenty-five dollars ($25) per day, up to a maximum
total civil fine of five hundred dollars ($500). Any civil fine imposed by the
Board under this section may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the
nature of debt if the offender fails or refuses to pay the penalty within a
prescribed period of time.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally files a statement of financial interests
which he or she knows to contain false information or intentionally omits
required information shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
NEPOTISM
§ 40.30 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall advocate,
recommend or cause the:
      (1)   Employment.
      (2)   Appointment
      (3)   Promotion
      (4)   Transfer; or
      (5)   Advancement of a family member to an office or position of
employment with the city or city agency.
   (B)   No officer or employee of the city or a city agency shall supervise or
manage the work of a family member.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall participate in any action relating to the
employment or discipline of a family member, except that this prohibition shall
not prevent an elected or appointed official from voting on or participating in
the development of a budget which includes compensation for a family member,
provided that the family member is included only as a member of a class of
persons or a group, and the family member benefits to no greater extent than
any other similarly situated member of the class or group.
   (D)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any relationship
or situation that would violate the prohibition, but which existed prior to the
effective date of this ordinance.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 40.40 BOARD OF ETHICS CREATED.
   (A)    There is hereby created a Board of Ethics which shall have the
authorities, duties, and responsibilities as set forth in this chapter to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)    The Board of Ethics shall consist of five (5) members who shall be
appointed by the mayor of the city, subject to the approval of the city
council. The initial members of the Board of Ethics shall be appointed within
sixty (60) days of the effective date of this chapter. No member of the Board
of Ethics shall hold any elected or appointed office, whether paid or unpaid,
or any position of employment with the city or any city agency. The members
shall serve for a term of three (3) years; except that with respect to the
members initially appointed, one (1) member shall be appointed for a term of
one (1) year, two members shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years, and
two (2) members shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. Thereafter,
all appointments shall be for a term of three (3) years. No more than three (3)
of the members shall be of the same political party. Each member of the Board
of Ethics shall have been a resident of the city for at least one (1) year
prior to the date of the appointment and shall reside in the city throughout
the term in office. The members of the Board of Ethics shall be chosen by
virtue of their known and consistent reputation for integrity and their
knowledge of local government affairs. The members may be re-appointed for any
number of consecutive terms.
   (C)   A member of the Board of Ethics may be removed by the mayor subject to
the approval of the city council for misconduct, inability or willful neglect
of duties. Before any member of the Board of Ethics is removed from office
under this section, the member shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing
before mayor and the city council.
   (D)    Vacancies on the Board of Ethics shall be filled within sixty (60)
days by the mayor subject to the approval of the city council. If a vacancy is
not filled by the mayor within sixty (60) days, the remaining members of the
Board of Ethics shall fill the vacancy. All vacancies shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without compensation unless
otherwise approved by the city council, but shall be reimbursed for all
necessary and reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (F)   The Board of Ethics shall, upon the initial appointment of its members
and annually thereafter, elect a chairperson from among the membership. The
chairperson shall be the presiding officer and a full voting member of the
Board.
   (G)   Meetings of the Board of Ethics shall be held, as necessary, upon the
call of the chairperson or at the written request of a majority of the members.
   (H)   The presence of three (3) or more members shall constitute a quorum
and the affirmative vote of three (3) or more members shall be necessary for
any official action to be taken. Any member of the Board of Ethics who has a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter to be considered by the Board
shall disclose the nature of the conflict, shall disqualify himself or herself
from voting on the matter, and shall not be counted for purposes of
establishing a quorum.
   (I)   Minutes shall be kept for all proceedings of the Board of Ethics and
the vote of each member on any issue decided by the Board shall be recorded in
the minutes.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.41 ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The mayor of the city, with the approval of the city council may appoint two
(2) alternate members of the Board of Ethics who may be called upon to serve
when any regular member of the Board is unable to discharge his or her duties.
An alternate member shall be appointed for a term of one (1) year. Alternate
members shall meet all qualifications and be subject to all of the requirements
of this ordinance that apply to regular members.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.42 FACILITIES AND STAFF.
   Within the limits of the funds appropriated by the legislative body in the
annual budget, the city shall provide the Board of Ethics, either directly or
by contract or agreement, with the facilities, materials, supplies and staff
needed for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.43 POWER AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ETHICS.
   The Board of Ethics shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate on its own motion, receive and investigate complaints,
hold hearings, make findings of fact and determinations with regard to alleged
violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To issue orders in connection with its investigations and hearings
requiring persons to submit in writing and under oath reports and answers to
questions that are relevant to the proceedings and to order testimony to be
taken by deposition before any individual designated by the Board who has the
power to administer oaths.
   (C)   To administer oaths and to issue orders requiring the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of documentary evidence relating to
an investigation or hearing being conducted by the Board.
   (D)   To refer any information concerning violations of this chapter to the
executive authority of the city, the city legislative body, the governing body
of any city agency, the county attorney, or other appropriate person or body,
as necessary.
   (E)   To render advisory opinions to city and city agency officers and
employees regarding whether a given set of facts and circumstances would
constitute a violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   To enforce the provisions of this chapter with regard to all officers
and employees of the city and city agencies who are subject to its terms by
issuing appropriate orders and imposing penalties authorized by this chapter.
   (G)   To control and maintain all statements of financial interests that are
required to be filed by this chapter and to insure that the statements are
available for public inspection in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter and the Kentucky Open Records Act.
   (H)   To develop and submit any reports regarding the conduct of its
business that may be required by the executive authority or legislative body of
the city.
   (I)   To adopt rules and regulations and to take other actions, as
necessary, to implement the provisions of this chapter, provided that the
rules, regulations, and actions are not in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter or any state or federal law.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.44 FILING AND INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints alleging any violation of the provisions of this
chapter shall be submitted to the Board of Ethics, or the administrative
official designated by the Board of Ethics. All complaints shall be in writing,
signed by the complainant, and shall meet any other requirements established by
the Board of Ethics. The Board of Ethics shall acknowledge receipt of a
complaint to the complainant within ten (10) working days from the date of
receipt. The Board shall forward within ten (10) working days to each officer
or employee of the city or city agency who is the subject of the complaint a
copy of the complaint and a general statement of the applicable provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)    Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of a proper complaint, the
Board of Ethics shall conduct a preliminary inquiry concerning the allegations
contained in the complaint. The Board shall afford a person who is the subject
of the complaint an opportunity to respond to the allegations in the complaint.
The person shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to appear and be
heard under oath, and to offer evidence in response to the allegations.
   (C)   All proceedings and records relating to a preliminary inquiry being
conducted by the Board of Ethics shall be confidential until a final
determination is made by the Board, except:
      (1)   The Board may turn over to the Commonwealth's Attorney or County
Attorney evidence which may be used in criminal proceedings.
      (2)   If the complainant or alleged violator publicly disclose the
existence of a preliminary inquiry, the Board may publicly confirm the
existence of the inquiry, and, at its discretion, make public any documents
which were issued to either party.
   (D)   The Board shall make a determination based on its preliminary inquiry
whether the complaint is within its jurisdiction and, if so, whether it alleges
a minimal factual basis to constitute a violation of this chapter. If the Board
concludes that the complaint is outside of its jurisdiction, frivolous, or
without factual basis, the Board shall immediately terminate the inquiry,
reduce the conclusion to writing, and transmit a copy of its decision to the
complainant and to all officers or employees against whom the complaint was
filed.
   (E)   If the Board of Ethics concludes, based upon its preliminary inquiry,
that the complaint is within its jurisdiction and contains allegations
sufficient to establish minimal factual basis to constitute a violation, the
Board shall notify the officer or employee who is the subject of the complaint
and may:
      (1)   Due to mitigating circumstances such as, lack of significant
economic advantage or gain by the officer or employee, lack of economic loss to
the city and its taxpayers, or lack of significant impact on public confidence
in city government issue, in writing, a confidential reprimand to the executive
authority and governing body of the city of city agency.
      (2)   Initiate a hearing to determine whether there has been a violation.
   (F)   Any person who knowingly files with the Board a false complaint
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter by an officer or employee
of the city or any city agency shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.45 NOTICE OF HEARINGS.
   If the Board of Ethics determines that a hearing regarding allegations
contained in the complaint is necessary, the Board shall issue an order setting
the matter for a hearing within thirty (30) days of the date the order is
issued, unless the alleged violator petitions for and the Board consents to a
later date. The order setting the matter for hearing, along with a coy of any
pertinent regulations of the Board relating to the hearing shall be sent to the
alleged violator within twenty-four (24) hours of the time the order setting a
hearing is issued.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.46 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Kentucky Rules of Civil Procedure and the Kentucky Rules of
Evidence shall not apply to hearings conducted by the Board of Ethics; however,
the hearings shall be conducted in accordance with this section and in
accordance with any additional rules and regulations adopted by the Board so as
to afford all parties the full range of due process rights required by the
nature of the proceedings.
   (B)   Prior to the commencement of the hearing, the alleged violator, or his
or her representative, shall have a reasonable opportunity to examine all
documents and records obtained or prepared by the Board in connection with the
matter to be heard. The Board shall inform the alleged violator, or his or her
representative, of any exculpatory evidence in its possession.
   (C)   All testimony in a Board hearing shall be taken under oath,
administered by the presiding officer. All parties shall have the right to call
and examine witnesses, to introduce exhibits, to cross-examine witnesses, to
submit evidence, and to be represented by counsel. All witnesses shall have the
right to be represented by counsel.
   (D)   Any person whose name is mentioned during the hearing and who may be
adversely affected thereby may appear personally before the Board, with or
without counsel, to give a statement regarding the adverse mention for
incorporation into the record of the proceeding.
   (E)   All hearings of the Board of Ethics shall be public, unless the
members vote to go into executive session in accordance with KRS 61.810. At the
request of the person being investigated, the board may, by majority vote,
conduct a closed hearing.
   (F)   After the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Ethics shall, as
soon as practicable, begin deliberations in executive session for the purpose
of reviewing the evidence before it and making a determination whether within
thirty (30) days after completion of the hearing, the Board shall issue a
written report of its findings and conclusions.
   (G)   If the Board concludes in its report that no violation of this chapter
has occurred, it shall immediately send written notice of this determination to
the officer or employee who was the subject of the complaint and to the party
who filed the complaint.
   (H)   If the Board concludes in its report that in consideration of the
evidence produced at the hearing there is clear and convincing proof of a
violation of this chapter, the Board may:
      (1)   Issue an order requiring the violator to cease and desist the
violation.
      (2)   In writing, publicly reprimand the violator for the violations and
provide a copy of the reprimand to the mayor and city council or city agency
with which the violator serves.
      (3)   In writing, recommend to the mayor and city council that the
violator be sanctioned as recommended by the Board, which may include a
recommendation for discipline or dismissal, or removal from office.
      (4)   Issue an order requiring the violator to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $1,000.
      (5)   Refer evidence of criminal violations of this chapter or state laws
to the County Attorney or Commonwealth's Attorney of the jurisdiction for
prosecution.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.47 APPEALS.
   Any person who is found guilty of a violation of any provision of this
chapter by the Board of Ethics may appeal the finding to the Circuit Court of
Bath County within thirty (30) days after the date of the final action by the
Board of Ethics by filing a petition with the Court against the Board. The
Board shall transmit to the Clerk of the Court all evidence considered by the
Board at the public hearing.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.48 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   Except when the period of limitations is otherwise established by state law,
an action for a violation of this chapter must be brought within one (1) year
after the violation is discovered.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.49 ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Ethics may render advisory opinions concerning matters
under its jurisdiction, based upon real or hypothetical facts and
circumstances, upon its own initiative, or when requested by any officer or
employee of the city or a city agency who is covered by this chapter.
   (B)   An advisory opinion shall be requested in writing and shall state
relevant facts and ask specific questions. The request for an advisory opinion
shall remain confidential unless confidentiality is waived, in writing, by the
requestor.
   (C)   The Board may adopt regulations, consistent with the Kentucky Open
Records Law, to establish criteria under which it will issue confidential
advisory opinions. All other advisory opinions shall be public documents,
except that before an advisory opinion is made public, it shall be modified so
that the identity of any person associated with the opinion shall not be
revealed.
   (D)   The confidentiality of an advisory opinion may be waived either:
      (1)   In writing by the person who requested the opinions.
      (2)   By majority vote of the members of the Board, if a person makes or
purports to make public the substance or any portion of an advisory opinion
requested by or on behalf of the person. The Board may vote to make public the
advisory opinion request and related materials.
   (E)   A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be binding on the
Board in any subsequent proceeding concerning the facts and circumstances of
the particular case if no intervening facts or circumstances arise which would
change the opinion of the Board if they had existed at the time the opinion of
the Board was rendered. However, if any fact determined by the Board to be
material was omitted or misstated in the request for an opinion, the Board
shall not be bound by the opinion.
   (F)    A written advisory opinion issued by the Board shall be admissible in
the defense of any criminal prosecution or civil proceeding for violations of
this chapter for actions taken in reliance on that opinion.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.50 REPRISALS AGAINST PERSONS DISCLOSING VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No officer or employee of the city or any city agency shall subject to
reprisal or directly or indirectly use, or threaten to use, any official
authority or influence in any manner whatsoever which tends to discourage,
restrain, deter, prevent, interfere with, coerce, or discriminate against any
person who in good faith reports, discloses, divulges, or otherwise brings to
the attention of the Board of Ethics or any other agency or official of County
of Fleming, the City of Flemingsburg or the City of Ewing or the Commonwealth
any facts or information relative to an actual or suspected violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed as:
      (1)   Prohibiting disciplinary or punitive action if an officer or
employee of the city or any city agency discloses information which he or she
knows:
         (a)    To be false or which he or she discloses with reckless
disregard for its truth or falsity.
         (b)    To be exempt from required disclosure under the provisions of
the Kentucky Open Records Act, KRS 61.870 to 61.884.
         (c)    Is confidential under any other provision of law.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
§ 40.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Except when another penalty is specifically set forth in this chapter,
any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by the
Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a civil offense and may be subject to a civil fine imposed by the
Board of Ethics not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000), which may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
fails to pay the penalty within a prescribed period of time.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, any officer or employee of the city or any city agency who is found by
the Board of Ethics to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
forfeit to the city or the city agency an amount equal to the economic benefit
or gain which the officer or employee is determined by the Board to have
realized as a result of the violation. The amount of any forfeiture may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt, if the offender
fails to pay the amount of the forfeiture within a prescribed period of time.
   (C)   In addition to all other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, a finding by the Board of Ethics that an officer or employee of the
city or any city agency is guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
sufficient cause for removal, suspension, demotion, or other disciplinary
action by the executive authority of the city or city agency, or by any other
officer or remove or discipline any officer or employee for a violation of this
chapter shall be taken in accordance with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of the city and with all applicable laws of the Commonwealth.
(Ord. 8-1994, passed 11-21-94)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWERS
      
51.   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER SHORTAGES
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Superintendent's right of entry
   
50.003   Damaging, destroying utility equipment prohibited
   
50.004   State laws incorporated by reference
Building Sewers
   
50.015   Permit required
   
50.016   Excavations
   
50.017   Costs, expense of installation
   
50.018   Separate sewer for each building; exception
   
50.019   Connection of new building to old sewer
   
50.020   Specifications for building sewers
   
50.021   Inspections
Connections
   
50.030   Purpose
   
50.031   Standards of workmanship; abrogation and greater restrictions
   
50.032   Application required
   
50.033   General requirements
   
50.034   Easements, rights-of-way, and permits
   
50.035   Sewer installation regulations
   
50.036   Water installation regulations
   
50.037   Inspection and testing
   
50.038   Two-party hookups
   
50.039   Master metered hookups
   
50.040   Connections to meet city regulations
   
50.041   When connection to public sewer system required
   
50.042   Water and sewer taps, illegal tap-ins
   
50.043   Owner to provide suitable toilet facilities for connection
   
50.044   Connections to be conveniently located with respect to city lines and
mains
   
50.045   Storm water drain connection prohibited
   
50.046   Cost of connection
   
50.047   Sewer connections to comply; failure deemed nuisance
Private Systems
   
50.060   Prohibited when connection to public sewer system available
   
50.061   Specifications for private systems when connection to public system
not available
   
50.062   Privies, vaults and septic tanks
Usage
   
50.070   Right to purchase, use water
   
50.071   Application for service
   
50.072   Water to be used for domestic consumption only; resale prohibited
   
50.073   Customers with boilers or pressure vessels
   
50.074   Use by city; use for public purpose
Meters
   
50.085   Meter deposit
   
50.086   Meters installed, maintained at expense of city
   
50.087   Testing meters; fee
   
50.088   Defective meter; determination of water consumption
   
50.089   Use of water supplied on other than metered basis
   
50.090   Use of water not being discharged into sewer facilities; special
meters
   
50.091   Use of water for building purposes to be metered; deposit
   
50.092   Meter readings
Discharge Regulations
   
50.105   Deposits of garbage, wastes prohibited
   
50.106   Discharges to natural outlets
   
50.107   Discharge of unpolluted waters
   
50.108   Prohibited discharges
   
50.109   Discharges subject to approval
   
50.110   Preliminary treatment
   
50.111   Maintenance of preliminary treatment facilities
   
50.112   Control manholes
   
50.113   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
50.114   Measurements, tests, and analysis
   
50.115   Discharge of industrial wastes
   
50.116   Special agreements
   
50.117   Inflammable substances; substances which might cause obstructions
prohibited
   
50.118   Discharges containing high concentrates of substances which add to
cost of operation; special charges
Rates and Charges
   
50.130   Monthly water rates
   
50.131   Monthly sewer rates
   
50.132   Sewage dumping charge
   
50.133   Payment due date; delinquency
   
50.134   Water meter installation charge
   
50.135   Sewer tap fee
   
50.136   Water service connection fee
   
50.137   Reconnection fee
   
50.138   Charge for checking meter reading
   
50.139   Returned check charge
   
50.140   Security deposit
   
50.141   Adjustments
   
50.142   Special rates and charges for commercial institutions or industries by
reason of unusual use of water
   
50.143   Mailing of bills and notices
Extensions of Service
   
50.155   Contract between customer, city required
   
50.156   Customer to pay costs; refund of advance payments
   
50.157   Manner of installation governed by city
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.170   Easement, right-of-way to be granted by each customer
   
50.171   City owns lines, meters, and the like
   
50.172   Discontinuance of service; reconnection
   
50.173   Interruption of service
   
50.174   Refusal of service
   
50.175   Complaints
   
50.176   Liability
   
50.177   Amendments to regulations
   
50.998   Notice of violation
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BOD." (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand.) The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20° C., expressed in milligrams per liter.
   "BUILDING DRAIN." That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (l.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   "BUILDING SEWER." The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   "CITY." The City of Owingsville, Kentucky, acting by and through its City
Council or by and through such other body as shall be the governing body of
said city under the laws of Kentucky at any given time.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
   "COMBINED SEWER." A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   "CUSTOMER." A property owner or his agent who has agreed to purchase water
or sewer service from the city.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1- 28-88)
   "GARBAGE." Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
   "INDUSTRIAL WASTES." The liquid wastes from industrial or other processes.
   "MANAGER." The manager, superintendent, or other person duly employed and
authorized by the city to supervise the operation of the system.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
   "NATURAL OUTLET." Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   "OWNER." Any individual, contractor, or developer who has made application
to the utility for water or sewer service.
(Ord. 11-1986, passed 10-9-86)
   "PH." The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   "PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE." The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2 inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   "PUBLIC SEWER." A sewer controlled by the city, to which owners of the
abutting properties may have access. In general, the "PUBLIC SEWER" shall
include the main sewer in the street and the service branch to the curb or
property line, or a main sewer upon private property and any sewers which are
connected with the sewage systems of the city to the extend of ownership by
public authority.
   "SANITARY SEWER." A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   "SERVICE CONNECTION." Those lines which exist from the water meter to the
point of usage.
(Ord. 11-1986, passed 10-9-86)
   "SEWAGE." A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   "SEWAGE SYSTEM." All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   "SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT." Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   "SEWAGE WORKS." All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   "SEWER." A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   "SLUG." Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   "STORM DRAIN." A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   "SUPERINTENDENT." The Director of the water and sewer system of the city or
his authorized deputy or representative.
   "SUSPENDED SOLIDS." Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   "SYSTEM." The combined and consolidated water and sewer system of the city,
as now or hereafter constituted.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
   "UTILITY." The city water and sewer system.
   "WATER MAIN." Those lines which exist prior to any individual service's
water meter.
(Ord. 11-1986, passed 10-9-86)
   "WATERCOURSE." A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   "WATER WORKS." All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, storing,
and disbursing water.
(Ord. 11-1986, passed 10-9-86)
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 50.002 SUPERINTENDENT'S RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Superintendent, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
   (B)   The premises receiving a supply of water and all service lines,
meters, and fixtures, including any fixtures within said premises, shall at all
reasonable hours be subject to inspection by the duly authorized employees of
the city.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.003 DAMAGING, DESTROYING UTILITY EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally or wantonly break, damage, destroy,
uncover, cover, back-fill over, deface, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenances, or equipment which is a part of the municipal water or sewage
works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest
under charge of criminal mischief.
   (B)   In addition to any criminal penalty set forth above in division (A),
the city may seek repair and/or correct any of the acts of damage or
destruction of the municipal utility outlined in division (A) above by
providing written notice to the violator and/or property owner if the damage or
destroyed utility structure is located upon an easement. Said written notice
shall specify the act committed and set forth the corrective action required
and the time period for the corrective action to occur. If no corrective action
is taken within the time specified in the written notice, the city may at its
option, take the corrective action and the violator shall be liable for any
costs to the city associated therewith. If the damaged or destroyed utility
municipal equipment is located upon an easement, the city may assess a lien
against the property for the costs of the corrective measure.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 2-2004,
passed 6-14-04)
                    
Statutory reference:
   Criminal mischief, see KRS 512.020 through 512.040
§ 50.004 LAWS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   All applicable state statutes which now or may hereafter exist are
incorporated herein and made a part of this chapter, and the city may use any
powers therein contained, in addition to those herein set out.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
BUILDING SEWERS
§ 50.015 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the utility.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one class for
residential and commercial service, and one class for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information as
required in §
50.016. Permits shall be obtained from the Mayor.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.016 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be
open trench work unless otherwise approved by the utility. Subgrade or trench
supporting pipe shall be firm earth, six-inch pad of crushed rock on solid
rock, or, if unstable earth, stabilized by crushed rock pad to prevent any
settlement after backfill. If any subgrade is excavated more than two inches
below bottom of pipe, it shall be filled to grade with crushed rock. Bell holes
shall be dug to provide ample space for caulking joints. Backfill shall be
carefully tamped in and around pipe to top of pipe for proper support. No
backfill shall be placed until the pipe laying has been inspected. The
Superintendent of the utility shall be notified at least 24 hours in advance of
the date and the time the line is to be covered.
   (B)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard on
streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property satisfactory to the
city.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.017 COSTS, EXPENSE OF INSTALLATION.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.018 SEPARATE SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. However, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.019 CONNECTION OF NEW BUILDING TO OLD SEWER.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found on examination and test by the utility to meet all requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.020 SPECIFICATIONS FOR BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be connected to the public sewer at the curb,
easement line, or property line, only by authorized agents of the utility, if a
service branch is available at a suitable location. Where no properly located
service branch is available, an authorized agent of the utility shall cut a
neat hole into the main line of the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee
saddle shall be installed to receive the building sewer. The invert of the
building sewer at such joint of connection with a wye saddle shall be in the
upper quadrant of the main line of the public sewer. A neat workmanlike
connection not extending past the inner surface of the public sewer shall be
made, and the saddle shall be made secure and watertight by encasement in
concrete or with Epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose.
   (B)   All parts of the building sewer, pipes, joints, and fittings, shall be
constructed of clay, polyvinyl chloride (P.V.C.), acryonitrile-butadiene
styrene (A.B.S.), or ductile-iron pipe unless otherwise approved by the
utility.
   (C)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be large enough to
carry the amount and kind of sewage generated from the building. Four-inch pipe
may be used on single-family units. The minimum slope for four-inch pipe shall
be l.6 feet per 100 feet or 3/16-inch per foot. The minimum slope for six-inch
pipe shall be l.0 foot per 100 feet or 1/8-inch per foot.
   (D)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to within three feet of any
bearing wall which might thereby be weakened. The building sewer shall be laid
at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in
direction shall be made with properly curved pipe and fittings. All sewers
shall be laid to line and grade by use of string and batter boards over the
ditch.
   (E)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by that drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. No
toilets will be permitted unless specialized pumps are installed in duplicate
and approved by the utility. The sump for the washer and showers shall be above
the floor. No groundwater, foundation drains, or water seeping into the
basement shall be permitted to enter or mix with the sanitary sewage.
   (F)   All joints and connections shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's directions.
   (G)   At the discretion of the Superintendent, he will make a smoke test to
determine if there are any leaks or illegal connections. The owner, at his
expense, shall repair all leaks in new and old sewers and shall remove
connections to roof drains, cellar foundations, and all other unpolluted water.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.021 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent or his
agent. Laying building sewer shall begin at the public sewer. The owner shall
notify the Superintendent at least 24 hours in advance of the date and time the
connection is to be made.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
CONNECTIONS
§ 50.030 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to provide landowners, contractors,
and individuals, herein referred to as the owners, with regulations governing
connections to the city water and sewer system (herein referred to the
utility). These regulations shall be followed by any person seeking connection
to this system.
(Ord. 11-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 50.031 STANDARDS OF WORKMANSHIP; ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   The utility shall decide questions which arise with regard to
specifications, worksmanship, methods, and quality of any connection prior to
or following construction. No part of these regulations or specifications
adopted by the utility is intended to conflict with state or federal law. If a
conflict is noted, the more stringent requirement shall apply.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 50.032 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Any owner who wishes to connect to the utility shall make application to the
utility. Application forms may be obtained at City Hall. All information
requested on the application form must be supplied. Submittal of the
application shall be made with payment of fees as set forth in the utility's
rate ordinance. The applicant will be notified in writing of the utility's
determination.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.033 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In order to ensure that any connection made to the utility meets
sanitary engineering design criteria, the owner shall employ a registered
engineer to supply the utility with the following:
      (1)   Detailed construction drawings;
      (2)   Resident inspection during construction;
      (3)   Certification that connection has been made in accordance with
plans and specifications as originally submitted to the utility and according
to requirements as outlined herein;
      (4)   A set of "as-built" drawings.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
   (B)   This requirement may be waived only upon approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 11-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.034 EASEMENTS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY, AND PERMITS.
   The owner shall be required to make application, obtain and make payment for
all necessary easements, rights-of-way, or permits required to make
installation of a water or sewer connection to the utility. Following
installation of the connection, any easement shall transfer and become the
property of the utility. If any installation requires a bore under county or
state maintained highways, the owner shall be responsible for all bores and
assume all liability for same. The utility may allow cutting of city streets
for installation of water or sewer main in accordance with those requirements
of the city.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.035 SEWER INSTALLATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All sewer mains or sewer service connections shall be installed as set
forth by the owner and approved by the utility as originally submitted in the
application for service. Where an existing sewer main abuts the property to
which service is requested, a sewer service connection shall be made by the
utility at this point. The owner shall then install remaining service line as
set forth in specifications as submitted by the owner and approved by the
utility in the original application for service.
   (B)   If a sewer main does not abut the property to which service is
requested, the owner shall be responsible for installing additional sewer main
as set forth in specifications as submitted by the owner and approved by the
utility in the original application for service. After additional main has been
installed to the property line, the utility shall make sewer service connection
at this point. The owner shall then install service connection as set forth in
specifications as submitted by the owner and approved by the utility in the
original application for service.
   (C)   All sewer main installed by the owner shall become the property of the
utility after inspection and acceptance in writing by the utility. The utility
shall have the right to allow other applicants for sewer service to connect to
the lines. The utility, having accepted the aforementioned line as part of its
total system, will not allow the owner originally installing the main to charge
any fee to an applicant for sewer service for connection to the line. Only
those fees imposed by the utility will apply. The utility shall maintain sewer
mains with sewer mains being defined as those lines containing manholes.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.036 WATER INSTALLATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All water mains or service connections shall be installed as set forth
by the owner and approved by the utility as originally submitted in the
application for service. Where an existing water main abuts the property to
which service is requested, a meter will be set at this point by the utility.
The owner will be responsible for installing service line from the meter to the
point of usage as set forth in specifications as approved.
   (B)   If a water main does not abut the property to which service is
requested, the owner shall be responsible for installing additional water main
as set forth in specifications as submitted by the owner and approved by the
utility in the original application for service. After additional main has been
installed to the property line, the utility shall set water meter at this
point. The owner shall then install service connection as set forth in
specifications as submitted by the owner and approved by the utility in the
original application for service.
   (C)   All water mains installed by the owner shall become the property of
the utility after inspection and acceptance in writing by the utility. The
utility shall have the right to allow other applicants for water service to
connect to the lines. The utility, having accepted the aforementioned line as
part of its total system, will not allow the owner originally installing the
line to charge any fee to an applicant for water service for connection to the
line. Only those fees imposed by the utility will apply. The utility shall
maintain water lines to the water meter.
   (D)   Water mains shall be designed to carry peak flows and maintain a
minimum line pressure of 30 pounds per square inch at all points. In no case
shall a water main be smaller than six inches in diameter. Service lines shall
be one inch minimum diameter. A one-inch line from a water main to the water
meter will be allowed only if the owner is given prior approval by the utility.
No connections will be allowed to this one-inch line.
   (E)   All water pipe shall be covered with a minimum of 30 inches backfill
and ground restored to its original status.
   (F)   All water mains shall be constructed of ductile iron or polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) unless otherwise approved by the utility, except any line ten
inches or larger shall be ductile iron.
   (G)   Any installation of a water main which results in a dead-end line
shall be required to have a blowoff valve installed for flushing purposes.
(Ord. 11-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.037 INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   (A)   During and following construction, the utility shall have the right to
inspect the installation to ascertain any deficiencies in the installation and
to determine that the installation is being made in accordance with
specifications as submitted by the owner and approved by the utility in the
owner's application for service. Before a service connection is made, the
Superintendent of the utility shall be present to supervise this connection to
the city maintained line. The Superintendent must be notified at least 24 hours
in advance of the date and time this connection is to be made. Inspection shall
further be made by the Superintendent of the utility prior to covering any
installation with earth. The utility shall be notified at least 24 hours in
advance of the date and time this covering is to be made.
   (B)   Any installation of water main shall be tested by the utility prior to
use of the line. If it is determined that the line has been installed according
to specifications as submitted and approved in the application for service and
meets testing requirements, the utility shall notify the owner in writing of
this determination and water service shall then be supplied by the utility.
   (C)   The utility shall further notify the owner in writing of acceptance of
this installation as part of the utility's system.
(Ord. 11-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.038 TWO-PARTY HOOKUPS.
   Two-party or multi-party water hookups will not be allowed. Each new
customer will be required to have a meter. Any existing two-party or multi-
party hookups will be charged a minimum rate for each meter and surplus charges
in accordance with meter size per §
50.130.
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 8-1987, passed 6-1-87)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.039 MASTER METERED HOOKUPS.
   Any existing service which is master metered and serving a multiple number
of units (dwellings, offices, apartments, and the like) shall be charged a
minimum rate for each meter and surplus charges in accordance with meter size
per §
50.130. The total usage shall be divided by the total number of units served.
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 8-1987, passed 6-1-87)
§ 50.040 CONNECTIONS TO MEET CITY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All sewer connections shall be made under such regulations as the city
may establish. Failure to effect such connection is hereby declared to be
unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   All taps and connections to the water mains and sewers of the city
shall be made by and/or under the direction and supervision of the manager.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-2-88)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.041 WHEN CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   (A)   All owners, tenants, and occupants of dwellings, houses, apartments,
hotels, motels, mobile homes, house trailers, mobile home parks, trailer camps,
manufacturing or commerical establishments, or any other building of any kind
or nature situated on a lot within the city limits, through which any sewage
collection line has been or is hereafter installed, or which abuts upon any
street, alley, or easement within the city limits in which there is hereafter
installed a sewage collection line, or to which property a sewage collection
line is extended, shall within 90 days following the date on which such sewage
collection line is placed in operation, connect therewith all sanitary sewage
drain pipes of such dwellings, houses, apartments, hotels, motels, mobile
homes, house trailers, mobile home parks, trailer camps, manufacturing or
commercial establishments, or other buildings, with said sanitary sewage
collections line, conveying thereby all of the sewage therefrom into said sewer
system, such connections to be made in accordance with such rules and
regulations as the city may from time to time duly establish; and the failure
to make such connection is hereby declared unlawful and to constitute a
nuisance.
   (B)   Each owner, tenant, and occupant of similar property outside the city
limits, who is connected to the city water system and receives water service
from the city, shall, within 90 days following the date on which the city sends
written notice to such party that a city sewage collection line is available to
such property, connect such property to such sewage collection line, in
accordance with such rules and regulations; and the city shall cut off the
water supply to any such owner, tenant, or occupant failing to make such
connection.
   (C)   All architects, contractors, builders, or other persons, before
commencing the erection of any building or other improvement capable of
emitting liquid wastes or sewage, on any lot or parcel of land abutting on a
street, alley, or easement in which there may be hereafter installed and
maintained any such sewage collection line, or on any lot or parcel of land
through which there may be hereafter installed a sewage collection line, or to
which a sewage collection line is made available, shall before erecting or
installing such building or improvement, exhibit to the City Council, or to
such official as the City Council may designate, satisfactory evidence that a
means has been provided or will be provided for connecting the sanitary sewage
drain pipes from such building or other improvement with such sewer collection
line. No storm water or other surface or subsurface water drain shall be
connected with any sanitary sewer line hereafter constructed, nor shall be any
storm water, surface, or subsurface water be otherwise introduced into any such
sanitary sewage collection line.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.042 WATER AND SEWER TAPS, ILLEGAL TAP-INS.
   (A)   Whenever the city shall determine that it is feasible to provide water
service to a customer, the city shall install, maintain, and operate a main
distribution pipeline or lines from the system's source of water supply and
shall further install and maintain, at the city's expense, such portions of the
necessary water service lines as may be needed to bring water from a water main
to the lot or easement line of a customer; however, if the necessary water
service line from the water main to the water meter of a customer exceeds 75
feet, as determined by the manager, within guidelines fixed by the city, the
customer is required to pay 100% of the cost of such service line. The expense
borne by the city in any event shall include the necessary tap, fittings, and
shut-off valve, which items shall belong to the city. Each customer shall
install and maintain, at his expense, that portion of the service line from
said lot or easement line to his premises, including a stop and waste cock at
the end of the house side of his service, which items shall belong to the
customer. The minimum earth cover of the customer's service shall be 30 inches.
The manager shall determine the size and kind to be installed.
   (B)   No sewer taps (breaking or entering into sewer lines of the city)
shall be made by any person, firm, or corporation except the city. The city
will, upon application to the city and payment of any tapping or connection
fee, as may be prescribed by the city, tap the city sewer and run a lateral to
the property line of any applicant where sewers are available, and any and all
installations or attachments thereto shall be made by the applicant under the
directions and supervision of the city, provided that nothing herein shall be
construed as requiring the city to furnish a sewer connection or sewer services
to any premises where a city sewer is not available at the time that the
application is made.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88; Am. Ord. 5-2003, passed 5-12-03)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.043 OWNER TO PROVIDE SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES FOR CONNECTION.
   Each owner of a house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and to
which sewer service is made available by the city, is hereby required at such
owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect
such facilities directly with such available public sewer in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.044 CONNECTIONS TO BE CONVENIENTLY LOCATED WITH RESPECT TO CITY LINES AND
MAINS.
   Piping on the premises of a customer must be so installed that connections
are conveniently located with respect to the city lines and mains. The customer
shall provide a place for metering which is unobstructed and accessible at all
times. The customer shall furnish and maintain a cutoff valve on his side of
the meter, and the city will furnish a like valve on its side of the meter.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.045 STORM WATER DRAIN CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   No storm water drain shall be or remain connected or be connected with any
separate sanitary sewer heretofore or hereafter constructed as, or made a part
of, the sewer system of the city, nor shall any storm water be otherwise
introduced into any such separate sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.046 COST OF CONNECTION.
   (A)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of a
building sewer shall be borne by the owner, who shall indemnify the city from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer. All connections shall be made under the
supervision of the manager of the sewer system or other duly authorized
official of the city.
   (B)   The customer's service lines shall be installed and maintained by the
customer at his own expense in a safe and efficient manner free of breaks,
leaks and/or infiltration of ground water and in accordance with the city's
rules and regulations and with the regulations of the Department of Health.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88; Am. Ord. 1-2003, passed 2-10-03)
§ 50.047 SEWER CONNECTIONS TO COMPLY; FAILURE DEEMED NUISANCE.
   All sewer connections shall be made under such regulations as the city may
establish. Failure to effect such connection is hereby declared to be unlawful
and shall constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
PRIVATE SYSTEMS
§ 50.060 PROHIBITED WHEN CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for disposal of sewage, where sewer service is available.
   (B)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or sewer right-of- way in which there is
located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is required at his own
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect these
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter within 90 days of official notice to do so.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.061 SPECIFICATIONS FOR PRIVATE SYSTEMS WHEN CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SYSTEM
NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
50.060(B), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent after approval by the State and County Health Departments. The
application for a permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city which
the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and other
information as deemed necessary.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
utility, and the State and County Health Departments. They shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any event the applicant
for the permit shall notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The Superintendent
shall be given 24 hours advance notice of the date and time the final
inspection or covering is to take place. The Superintendent shall make the
inspection within 48 hours of receipt of the notice, Saturdays and Sundays
excepted.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all regulations of the State and County
Health Departments. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the
lot is less than 15,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   (E)   At such times as a public sewer becomes available to a property owner
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
50.060(B), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be constructed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State and
County Health Departments.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.062 PRIVIES, VAULTS, AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain or permit
to be constructed or maintained any outdoor toilet, privy, vault, cesspool,
septic tank, or other similar contrivance for the reception of sewage on any
lands owned by such person, or under his control, which abut upon a sewage
collection line in any public street, alley, or other easement or through which
a sewage collection line passes or to which a sewage collection line is
hereafter available; all such outdoor toilets or privies shall be removed; and
all such vaults, cesspools, septic tanks, or other similar contrivances for the
reception of sewage shall be closed or filled or otherwise removed from the
properties described above within 90 days after such sewage collection service
becomes available.
   (B)   All such privies, surface toilets, or other means of casting or
depositing sewage into a container above or below the surface of the ground or
upon or into the soil or into any running or percolating stream of water or
into any cistern or well whereby the soil or any surface or sub-surface waters
is contaminated with such sewage are hereby declared to constitute a public
nuisance and their use or maintenance for a period of more than 90 days
following the availibilty of a sewage collection line to the property is hereby
prohibited.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
Penalty, see § 50.999
USAGE
§ 50.070 RIGHT TO PURCHASE, USE WATER.
   (A)   Each customer shall be entitled to purchase from the city, pursuant to
such agreements as may from time to time be provided and required by the city,
such water as the customer may desire, subject, however, to the provisions of
this chapter and to such further rules and regulations as may be prescribed by
the city. However, should a customer sell or dispose of a portion of his
property or subdivide the same, he, or the new owner of each such new tract,
may not demand water and taps without paying connection fees for each such
tract to be served.
   (B)   In the event that the total water supply shall be insufficient to meet
all of the needs of the cutomers, or in the event that there is a shortage of
water, the city or its manager may prorate the water available among the
various customers, on such basis as is deemed equitable by the city or its
manager, and may also prescribe a schedule of hours covering use of water and
require adherence thereto or prohibit the use of water for specified purposes,
for such appropriate period of time as may be necessary under the
circumstances.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
                
Cross-reference:
   Water shortages, see
Chapter 52
§ 50.071 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Each customer shall make written application for water or sewer service at
the city hall, and said application, including service received thereunder, is
not assignable by the customer.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.072 WATER TO BE USED FOR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION ONLY; RESALE PROHIBITED.
   Water furnished by the city may be used for domestic consumption by the
customer, members of the customer's household, and employees only. The customer
shall not sell or give the water to any other person.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.073 CUSTOMERS WITH BOILERS OR PRESSURE VESSELS.
   Customers having boilers or pressure vessels receiving a supply of water
from the city shall have a check valve on the water supply line and a vacuum
valve on the steam line to prevent collapse in case the water supply from the
city is discontinued or interrupted for any reason, with or without notice.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.074 USE BY CITY; USE FOR PUBLIC PURPOSE.
   Special terms and conditions may be made where water is used by the city or
community for public purposes such as fire extinguishment, public parks, and
the like.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
METERS
§ 50.085 METER DEPOSIT.
   The manager shall have the right to require that a nominal sum, or such
other meter deposit as may be specified or revised from time to time in any
applicable rate ordinance, which shall be placed on deposit with the city by a
customer for the purpose of establishing or maintaining such customer's credit
or as assurance for the payment of water or bills by such customer.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.086 METERS INSTALLED, MAINTAINED AT EXPENSE OF CITY.
   All meters shall be installed, renewed, and maintained at the expense of the
city, and the city reserves the right to determine the size and type of meter
used.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.087 TESTING METERS; FEE.
   Upon written request of any customer, the meter serving that customer shall
be tested by the city. Such test will be made without charge to the customer if
the meter has not been tested within 60 months preceding the requested test;
otherwise, a charge of $25 will be made and then only if the test indicates
meter accuracy within the limits of 2%. If a meter is inaccurate in excess of
2%, adjustments shall be made for the two preceding months prior to test
according to the inaccuracy in excess of 2%.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.088 DEFECTIVE METER; DETERMINATION OF WATER CONSUMPTION.
   Where a meter has ceased to register, or meter reading cannot be obtained,
the quantity of water consumed will be based upon an average of the prior six
months' consumption, considering the conditions of water service prevailing
during the period in which the meter fails to register.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.089 USE OF WATER SUPPLIED ON OTHER THAN METERED BASIS.
   In the event that a building or premises discharging sewage, water, or other
wastes into the municipal sewer facilities, uses water supplied on other than a
metered basis from either a private or public water supply, then in each such
case the owner or occupant may be required to cause a water meter or other
measuring device to be installed, acceptable to the manager.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.090 USE OF WATER NOT BEING DISCHARGED INTO SEWER FACILITIES; SPECIAL
METERS.
   In the event any building or premises uses water in excess of 10,000 gallons
per month as shown by the water meter readings for two consecutive months, and
it can be shown that a substantial portion of the water as so measured does not
and cannot enter the municipal sewer facilities, then the manager may
determine, in such manner as may be found practicable, the amount of water
entering the sewers, in which event the sewer rate or charge shall be based
thereon, or the manager may require or permit the installation of additional
meters or measuring devices in such manner as to detemine the quantity of water
or sewage actually entering the municipal sewer facilities, in which case the
sewer rate or charge shall be based thereon.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.091 USE OF WATER FOR BUILDING PURPOSES TO BE METERED; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Water for building or construction purposes will be furnished by meter
measurement, only after suitable deposit has been made, the minimum deposit
being such amount as may be specified from time to time in any applicable rate
ordinance; and the amount shall be determined by the city based upon the size
of the construction work contemplated; and all water for building or
construction purposes, as set forth in the permit, must pass through one and
the same meter.
   (B)   Water so supplied shall be discharged through a hose or pipe directly
upon the material to be made wet, or into a barrel or other container, and in
no case upon the ground or into or through a ditch or trench; and all use of
water by any party other than applicant, or use of water for any purpose or
upon any premises not so stated or described in the application, must be
prevented by the applicant, or water service may be discontinued to the
applicant without notice.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.092 METER READINGS.
   Meters will be read monthly between the fifteenth and twentieth of each
month.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
§ 50.105 DEPOSITS OF GARBAGE, WASTES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or any area under the jurisdiction of the city or into any sewer which
connects to the sewage system of the city, any human or animal excrement,
garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.106 DISCHARGES TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, any garbage or other objectionable waste, or to discharge to any natural
outlet within the city, any sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided under the supervision
of the Manager or other duly authorized city official.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 2-1988,
passed 1-28-88)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.107 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cellar drainage of groundwater
origin, cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process water to any sanitary
sewer. The Superintendent or his agent shall have the right at any time to
inspect connections to building sewers and require disconnection of any pipes
carrying such water to the building sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
those sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the utility. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
water may be discharged, upon approval by the utility, to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.108 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described water or waste to any public sewer:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 40° C. (105° F.).
   (B)   Any waters or wastes which may contain more than 100 parts per million
by weight of fat, oil, or grease.
   (C)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas, which by reason of their nature or quality may
cause fire or explosion or be in any other way injurious to persons, the sewage
works structures, or the operation of these works.
   (D)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   (E)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, hair, entrails, paunch manure, or any solid or
viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or
other interferences with the proper operation of the sewage works.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   (G)   Any waters and wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or that will pass through the sewage
treatment works to create hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage
treatment plant, or exceed the state or interstate requirements for the
receiving stream.
   (H)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of a character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle these
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
   (I)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance which, either singly or by
interacting with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or preventing entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair.
   (J)   Any waters or wastes containing cyanide in excess of a concentration
determined by multiplying 0.2 parts per million by the ratio of the average
flow in the receiving stream to the design flow of the sewage treatment works.
   (K)   Any toxic radioactive isotopes, without special permit.
   (L)   Any waters or wastes containing fluoride in excess of a concentration
determined by multiplying l.2 parts per million by the ratio of the average
flow in the receiving stream to the design flow of the sewage treatment works.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.109 DISCHARGES SUBJECT TO APPROVAL.
   The admission into the public sewers of any wastes or waters having any of
the following characteristics shall be subject to the review and approval of
the utility.
   (A)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per
million by weight.
   (B)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids or a chlorine demand greater than 50 parts per million.
   (C)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in § 50.063.
   (D)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the city.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.110 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   (A)   Where necessary, in the opinion of the utility, the owner shall
provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to
provide the following results:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million, the
suspended solids to 350 parts per million, and the chlorine demand to 50 parts
per million by weight.
      (2)   Reduce the objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits provided in § 50.063;
      (3)   Control the quantities or rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
   (B)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to
the proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the utility and of the State and County Health Departments. No
construction of preliminary treatment facilities shall be commenced until these
approvals are obtained in writing.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.111 MAINTENEANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his expense.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.112 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   The owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes shall install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. The control
manhole shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the utility. The manhole shall be installed
by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.113 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the utility, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
and other harmful ingredients. However, interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the utility, and shall be located so as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers, which, when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
Covers on sand traps only may be omitted unless opening creates a hazard.
   (C)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.114 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS, AND ANALYSIS.
   All measurements, tests, and analysis of the characteristics of water and
waste to which reference is made in §
50.108 and §
50.109 shall be determined according to the latest edition of "Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Sewage", and shall be determined at the
control manhole provided for in §
50.112, upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that
no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered
to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which
the building is connected.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 50.115 DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   All users of the sewage system who discharge industrial wastes to the public
sewers shall adhere to the provision and regulations set forth in
Chapter 51.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.116 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or agreements or arrangements between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 50.117 INFLAMMABLE SUBSTANCES; SUBSTANCES WHICH MIGHT CAUSE OBSTRUCTIONS
PROHIBITED.
   No substances shall be placed or discharged into the municipal sewer system
which will create a combustible, gaseous, explosive, or inflammable condition
in the system; nor shall any substances or objects be placed or discharged into
the municipal sewer system which will not dissolve and which will thus cause an
obstruction and clogging within the system. No petroleum products shall be
placed or discharged into the municipal sewer system.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.118 DISCHARGES CONTAINING HIGH CONCENTRATES OF SUBSTANCES WHICH ADD TO
COST OF OPERATION; SPECIAL CHARGES.
   In the event the sewage, water, or other liquid wastes being discharged into
the municipal sewer facilities from any building or premises contains unduly
high concentrates of any substances which add to the operating costs of the
municipal sewer facilities, then special rates, rentals, or charges may be
established, charged, and collected as to such building or premises; or the
owner or other interested party may be required to specially treat such sewage,
water, or other liquid wastes before it is discharged into the municipal sewer
facilities.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.130 MONTHLY WATER RATES.
    Monthly water rates shall be charged as follows:
   (A)   City users.
      (1)   3/4-inch meter.
 
                                      Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $12.15
Next 9,000 gallons or less per month  $4.93
All over 10,000 gallons per month     $4.25
The minimum water bill shall be $12.15 per month.
 
      (2)   1-inch meter.
 
                                     Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $16.76
Next 9,000 gallons or less per month  $6.01
All over 10,000 gallons per month     $4.48
The minimum water bill shall be $16.76 per month.
 
      (3)   2-inch meter.
 
                                      Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $19.84
Next 9,000 gallons or less per month  $7.55
All over 10,000 gallons per month     $6.01
The minimum water bill shall be $19.84 per month.
 
      (4)   3-inch meter.
 
                                      Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $20.42
Next 9,000 gallons or less per month  $8.72
All over 10,000 gallons per month     $7.26
The minimum water bill shall be $20.42 per month.
 
      (5)   4-inch meter.
 
                                      Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $21.88
Next 9,000 gallons or less per month  $10.18
All over 10,000 gallons per month     $8.72
The minimum water bill shall be $21.88 per month.
 
   (B)   Out of city users (city rate plus 15% (rounded up)).
      (1)   3/4-inch meter.
 
                                      Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $13.98
Next 9,000 gallons or less per month  $10.18
All over 10,000 gallons per month     $4.89
The minimum water bill shall be $13.98 per month.
 
      (2)   1-inch meter.
 
                                     Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $19.28
Next 9,000 gallons or less per month  $6.92
All over 10,000 gallons per month     $5.16
The minimum water bill shall be $19.28 per month.
 
      (3)   2-inch meter.
 
                                     Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $22.82
Next 9,000 gallons or less per month  $8.69
All over 10,000 gallons per month     $6.92
The minimum water bill shall be $22.82 per month.
 
      (4)   3-inch meter.
 
                                      Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $23.49
Next 9,000 gallons or less per month  $10.03
All over 10,000 gallons per month     $8.35
The minimum water bill shall be $23.49 per month.
 
      (5)   4-inch meter.
 
                                      Rate per 1,000 gallons
First 1,000 gallons or less per month $25.17
Next 9,000 gallons or less per month  $11.71
All over 10,000 gallons per month     $10.03
The minimum water bill shall be $25.17 per month.
 
   (C)   Water rates for all new business and industry for the city are waived
for the first six months. The city shall waive the water bill for all new
business and industry that locates within the city limits of the city for the
first six months of said business or industry’s operation. This waiver shall be
for up to the first $200 of the customer’s water bill, exclusive of sewer, for
each month.
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 3-1987, passed 1-8-87; Am. Ord. 8-1987,
passed 6-1-87; Am. Ord. 7-1992, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 7-2003, passed 5-12-
03; Am. Ord. 16-2003, passed 11-10-03; Am. Ord. 1-2008, passed 2-15-08; Am.
Ord. 3-2011, passed 3-14-11; Am. Ord. 1-2012, passed 2-27-12; Am. Ord. 2-2013,
passed 6-24-13; Am. Ord. 1-2015, passed 1-19- 15; Am. Ord. 4-2016, passed 3-18-
16; Am. Ord. 2-2017, passed 3-13-17; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-11-19; Am. Ord.
1-2021, passed 5-27-21; Am. Ord. 5-2022, passed 4-11-22)
§ 50.131 MONTHLY SEWER RATES.
   The monthly sewer charge or rate shall be 100% of the total water bill.
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 3-1987, passed 1-8-87; Am. Ord. 7-1992,
passed 9-14-92)
§ 50.132 SEWAGE DUMPING CHARGE.
   Any person or firm desiring to dump sewage from holding tanks into a manhole
that is the property of the utility's system shall be required to adhere to the
city's sewer use ordinance and pretreatment regulations and will be charged as
follows:
 
Quantity of Sewage (Gallons) Charge (Per Load)
500 or less                  $35
1,000 or less                $55
Over 10,000                  75
 
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 3-1987, passed 1-8-87)
Penalty, see § 50.999
§ 50.133 PAYMENT DUE DATE; DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   All bills are due and payable on or before the fifteenth of the month.
A late charge of $7.50 will be assessed if the bill is not paid on or before
the fifteenth of the month. However, if the meter is three inches or larger a
late charge of 10% will be assessed. If the fifteenth of the month falls on a
weekend or legal holiday, then the bill is due and payable on the following
business day by 12:00 noon.
   (B)   Any bill not paid by the first day of the following month shall result
in discontinuance of service by cut-off. Disconnection of service will be made
by 12:00 noon on the first day of the following month. If the first day of the
following month falls on a weekend or legal holiday, service will be
disconnected by 12:00 noon on the following business day. To resume service,
the customer shall be required to pay the delinquent bill, a $20 reconnection
fee, and the $7.50 late charge.
   (C) (1)   Bills for water and sewer service are due and payable at the city
hall, or to any designated agent, on their date of issue. Bills will be dated
and mailed on the first day of each month.
      (2)   All bills not paid on or before the past due date shall be deemed
delinquent, and the city shall serve a customer a written final notice of said
delinquency, and of the fact that such customer is entitled, upon written
request, to a hearing on the question of termination of service. If a
delinquent bill is not paid by the first day of the following month after date
of such final notice, and if no hearing is requested, or if a hearing is
requested and timely held, and such customer’s delinquency is thereby
established, the water supply to the customer may be discontinued without
further notice. However, if, prior to discontinuance of service, there is
delivered to the city, or to its employee empowered to discontinue service, a
written certificate signed by a physician, a registered nurse, or a public
health officer that, in the opinion of the certifier, discontinuance of service
will aggravate an existing illness or infirmity on the affected premises,
service shall not be discontinued until the affected resident can make other
living arrangements or until ten days elapse from the time of the city’s
receipt of said certification, whichever occurs first.
      (3)   If a deadline date falls on a weekend or legal holiday, such
deadline shall not expire until the next business day.
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 3-1987, passed 1-8-87; Am. Ord. 17-
1987, passed 10-28-87; Am. Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88; Am. Ord. 7-1992, passed
9-14-92; Am. Ord. 11-2007, passed 1-14-08; Am. Ord. 10-2012, passed 12-12-12)
§ 50.134 WATER METER INSTALLATION CHARGE.
   The following charges shall be made for the installation of water meters:
 
Meter Size (Inches) Charge
3/4                 $750
1                   $1,000
2 or larger         $2,500
 
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 11-2007, passed 1-14-08; Am. Ord. 1-
2021, passed 5-27-21)
§ 50.135 SEWER TAP FEE.
   The following charges shall be made for the installation of a sewer tap:
 
Use                        Charge
Residential (gravity)      $400
Residential (grinder pump) $5,000
Commercial (gravity)       $800
Commercial (grinder pump)  $5,000
 
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 5-2009, passed 5-11-09; Am. Ord. 1-
2021, passed 5-27-21)
§ 50.136 WATER SERVICE CONNECTION FEE.
   A $25 connection fee will be charged each customer at the time water service
is placed in the customer's name. This fee applies to all service connections
made and is not refundable.
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 11-2007, passed 1-14-08)
§ 50.137 RECONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   Voluntary cutoff. If the city is requested by a customer to disconnect
water service on a given date and time and further requested to reconnect water
service on a given date and time, the customer shall be billed $20 on the
following bill for this disconnection and reconnection of service.
   (B)   Cutoff for nonpayment of bill. If water service is disconnected on the
first day of the following month due to nonpayment of bill as stated in §
50.133, the customer will be required to pay the delinquent bill, the $20
reconnection fee, and the $7.50 late charge prior to service being reconnected.
   (C)   The reconnection fee of $20 shall be waived for any emergency
situation which requires the disconnection and reconnection of water service.
Existence of an emergency situation shall be determined by the Mayor or
Council.
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 16-1986, passed 1-5-87; Am. Ord. 10-
2012, passed 12-12-12)
§ 50.138 CHARGE FOR CHECKING METER READING.
   If a customer requests that the meter reading for his service be checked
following receipt of his bill, a $5 charge will be assessed for this service.
If it is found that the meter reading was incorrectly recorded by the Water and
Sewer Department, the $5 charge will be waived.
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 50.139 RETURNED CHECK CHARGE.
   For all returned checks, the customer will be charged a $20 service charge.
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 10-2012, passed 12-12-12)
§ 50.140 SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   In addition to the $25 connection fee, all new customers occupying rental
property or a mobile home shall be required to submit a $150 customer security
deposit prior to water service being connected. This deposit will be fully
refunded after the customer makes payment of his final bill or the security
deposit will be applied to the balance owed and the remainder of the security
deposit refunded on request. If the security deposit is not sufficient to cover
the balance owed, the customer will be required to pay the final bill in full
at which the security deposit will be fully refunded.
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 5-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 4-
2019, passed 5-20-19)
§ 50.141 ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A) If a customer requests that a check be made of his meter reading to
determine if the customer has a leak in his service line, the customer will be
charged $5 for this service as stated in § 50.138. If it is determined that the
customer does have a leak, the customer’s sewer bill for the month that the
leak occurred will be adjusted to match the customer’s average monthly sewer
bill. The water bill for the month that the leak occurred will not be adjusted.
If it is determined that the customer does have a leak, and the customer is not
connected to sewer, the customer may request that an adjustment be made of his
bill by presenting his case to the Mayor or Council.
   (B) If a customer receives billing showing usage in extreme excess of his
normal usage, the customer shall present his case to the Mayor or Council. Each
case shall be considered on an individual basis.
(Ord. 10-1986, passed 10-9-86; Am. Ord. 10-2012, passed 12-12-12)
§ 50.142 SPECIAL RATES AND CHARGES FOR COMMERCIAL INSTITUTIONS OR INDUSTRIES BY
REASON OF UNUSUAL USE OF WATER.
   Whenever it is determined by the manager to be necessary to classify any
commercial institutions or industries by reason of the unusual purpose for
which water is used, or by reason of the character of the sewage, water, or
other liquid wastes discharged therefrom, or whenever the established schedules
of rates and charges for any reason are not applicable, then special rates or
other charges may be established by the governing body of the city. Any person,
firm, or corporation who is dissatisfied with the established schedules of
rates and charges by reason of peculiar or unusual use or occupancy of any
premises, and consequently alleging peculiar or unusual uses of water, may file
application with the City Council or with any other board or body of said city
which may be in charge and control of the municipal waterworks and sewer
systems, for special classification rates and charges.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.143 MAILING OF BILLS AND NOTICES.
   Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the city will
be mailed to the customer at the address listed on the application unless a
change of address has been filed in writing with the city. The city shall not
otherwise be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice nor will the
customer be excused from the payment of any bill or any performance required in
said notice.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
EXTENSIONS OF SERVICE
§ 50.155 CONTRACT BETWEEN CUSTOMER, CITY REQUIRED.
   All line extensions shall be evidenced by a contract signed by the city and
the person advancing funds for said extension, but each contract shall be null
and void unless approved by the Farmers Home Administration and other governing
bodies.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.156 CUSTOMER TO PAY COSTS; REFUND OF ADVANCE PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The city will construct extensions to its water and sewer lines to
points within its service area, but the city is not required to make any such
installation unless the customer pays to the city the entire cost of the
installation.
   (B)   If refund of the advance is to be made, the following method shall
apply: such refund shall be in an amount equal to 20% of the total gross
revenue of water sales per year for each service connected to the new extension
prescribed in the agreement, for a period not to exceed five years, provided
that the aggregate payments do not exceed the total amount deposited. No refund
shall be made from any revenue received from any lines leading up to or beyond
the particular line extension covered by contract.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.157 MANNER OF INSTALLATION GOVERNED BY CITY.
   All decisions in connection with the manner of installation of any extension
and maintenance thereof shall remain in the exclusive control of the city; such
extension shall be the property of the city, and no other person shall have any
right, title, or interest therein.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.170 EASEMENT RIGHT-OF-WAY TO BE GRANTED BY EACH CUSTOMER.
   Each customer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed, to the city, a perpetual easement and right-of-way across any
property owned or controlled by the customer whenever said easement or right-
of-way is necessary for the city water or sewer facilities and lines so as to
enable the city to furnish service to the customer.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.171 CITY OWNS LINES, METERS, AND THE LIKE.
   The city shall own all lines, meters, cut-off valves, and other water and
sewer equipment as shall be paid for by the city.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.172 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; RECONNECTION.
   (A)   Water service may be discontinued by the manager for any violation of
any rule, regulation, or condition of service and especially for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the application or contract as to the property
or fixtures to be supplied, or as to additionl use of water or sewer service,
or as to unusual or extrordinary use of sewer facilities.
      (2)   Failure to report to the city additions to the property or fixtures
to be supplied, or of additional use of water or sewer service.
      (3)   Resale or giving away of water.
      (4)   Waste or misuse of water due to improper or imperfect service pipes
or failure to keep same in suitable state of repair.
      (5)   Tampering with meter, meter seal, service, or valves, or permitting
such tampering by others.
      (6)   Connection, cross-connection, or permitting the same, of any
separate water supply to premises which receive water from the city.
      (7)   Nonpayment of bills.
   (B)   Any customer desiring to discontinue the water or sewer service to his
premises for any reason must give notice of discontinuance in writing at the
city hall; otherwise, a customer shall remain liable for all water used and
water or sewer services rendered to such premises by the city unless said
notice is received by the city.
   (C)   Where water supply to the customer has been discontinued for
nonpayment of delinquent bills, a charge as may be specified in §
50.137(B), will be made for reconnection of water service, but the reconnection
will not be made until after all delinquent bills and other charges, if any,
owed by the customer to the city have been paid.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.173 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The city shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruption of
service, and, when such interruptions occur, will endeavor to reestablish
service with the shortest possible delay. When the service is interrupted, all
consumers affected by such interruption will be notified in advance whenever
possible.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.174 REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The city may refuse service to any person, not presently a customer, when in
the opinion of the city the capacity of the facilities will not permit such
service.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.175 COMPLAINTS.
   Complaints may be made to the manager of the system, whose decision may be
appealed to the City Council within ten days; otherwise, the manager's decision
will be final.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.176 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The city shall in no event be held responsible for any claim made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by
reason of any other interruption of the supply of water caused by the failure
or breakage of machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs. No person shall be
entitled to damages nor for any portion of a payment refunded for any
interruption of service which in the opinion of the city may be deemed
necessary.
   (B)   If any loss or damage to the property of the city or any accident or
other injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the negligence
or wrongful action of the customer, member of his household, his agent or
employee, the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by
the customer to the city, and any liability otherwise resulting shall be that
of the customer.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.177 AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS.
   (A)   These rules may be changed or amended.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be amended without the permission of the
Farmers Home Administration, United States Department of Agriculture (the
FmHA), so long as the FmHA is the owner or insurer of any bonds issured by the
city and payable from the revenues of the system.
(Ord. 2-1988, passed 1-28-88)
§ 50.998 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter except §
50.003, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
50.998, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined in an amount not less than $25 and not exceeding $100 for each
violation. Each day in which a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 610.3, passed 3-5-62; Am. Ord. 12-1986, passed 10-9-86)
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage suffered by the city
by reason of the violation.
(Ord. 11-1986, passed 10-9-86)
CHAPTER 51: INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose and policy
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Abbreviations
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.015   Mandatory sewer connection
   
51.016   Discharges to storm sewers or natural outlets prohibited
   
51.017   Compliance with local, state, and federal laws
   
51.018   Discharge of unpolluted waters into sewer
   
51.019   Prohibited discharges
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
51.030   Public sewer not available
   
51.031   Requirements for installation
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.045   Permits
   
51.046   Prohibited connections
   
51.047   Design and installations
   
51.048   Inspection
Pollutant Discharge Limits
   
51.060   General conditions
   
51.061   Restricted discharges
   
51.062   Dilution of wastewater discharge
   
51.063   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
51.064   Special industrial pretreatment requirements
   
51.065   Protection from accidental and slug discharges
   
51.066   State requirements
   
51.067   City's right of revision
   
51.068   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
Pretreatment Program Administration
   
51.080   Wastewater discharges
   
51.081   Wastewater contribution permits
   
51.082   Permit modifications
   
51.083   Permit conditions
   
51.084   Alternative discharge limits
   
51.085   Permit duration
   
51.086   Permit transfer
   
51.087   Compliance data reporting
   
51.088   Periodic compliance reports
   
51.089   Permit violations
   
51.090   Monitoring
   
51.091   Inspection and sampling
   
51.092   Pretreatment
   
51.093   Annual publication
   
51.094   Significant noncompliance
   
51.095   Confidential information
   
51.096   Signatory requirements
Charges and Fees
   
51.110   Purpose
   
51.111   Charges and fees
   
51.112   Surcharge rates
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.125   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.126   Enforcement provisions generally
   
51.127   Notice of violation
   
51.128   Administrative orders
   
51.129   Show cause hearing
   
51.130   Additional enforcement remedies
   
51.131   Written notice
   
51.132   Revocation of permit
   
51.133   Destruction of POTW
   
51.134   Legal action
   
51.135   Injunctive relief
   
51.136   Remedies nonexlusive
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the city
and enables, the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general Pretreatment
Regulations (40 CFR, Part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system inadequately treated into
receiving waters so as to cause violations of the city's KPDES permit or the
atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
      (5)   Provide for the safety of the treatment plant employees.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contribution to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain nondomestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the City Publicly
Owned Treatment Works (POTW). Except as otherwise provided herein, the
Superintendent shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “ACT or THE ACT.” The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C: 1251, et. seq.
   “APPROVAL AUTHORITY.” The Secretary of the Kentucky Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Cabinet or an authorized representative thereof.
   “AGENCY.” Any governmental or quasi-governmental entity.
   “AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.”
      (1)   An authorized representative of a user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively;or
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if such representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
      (2)   An authorized representative of the city may be any person
designated by the city to act on its behalf.
   “BASELINE MONITORING REPORT (BMR).” A report submitted by categorical
industrial users within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
standard which indicates the compliance status of the user with the applicable
categorical standard (40 CFR 403.12(b)).
   “BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs.” Schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to
implement the prohibitions listed in 40 CFR 403.5. BMPs include, but are not
limited to, treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to
control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
drainage from raw materials storage.
   “BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).” The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 200° C. expressed in terms of weight and concentration in
milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   “BUILDING DRAIN.” That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, water, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   “BUILDING SEWER.” The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal, also called “house connection”.
   “BUILDING SEWER PERMIT.” As set forth in §§
51.045 through
51.048.
   “CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER.” An industrial user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards which have been promulgated by EPA.
   “CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.” National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards or Pretreatment Standard. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with Section 307 (b) and
(c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1347) which applies to a specific category of
industrial users.
   “CITY.” The City of Owingsville, its City Council, the City Engineer, the
Superintendent, or their designee.
   “CITY ENGINEER.” The City Engineer of the city; his authorized deputy, agent
or representative; or such other person empowered by the city to deal with the
matters referred to in this chapter.
   “CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA).” (Also known as the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act) enacted by Public Law 92-500, October 18, 1972; 33 USC 1251 et seq: As
amended by PL 95-217, December 28, 1977; PL 97-117, December 29, 1981; PL 97-
440, January 8, 1983; and PL 100-04, February 4, 1987.
   “COMBINED SEWER.” Any conduit designed to carry both sanitary sewage and
storm water or surface water.
   “COMBINED WASTESTREAM FORMULA (CWF).” Procedure for calculating alternative
discharge limits at industrial facilities where a regulated wastestream is
combined with other nonregulated wastestreams prior to treatment (40 CFR
403.7).
   “COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.” Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids and
fecal coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants identified in the
POTW's NPDES/KPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat such pollutants
and, in fact, does treat such pollutants so as to ensure compliance with the
POTW's NPDES/KPDES permit.
   “CONCENTRATION-BASED LIMIT.” A limit based on the relative strength of a
pollutant in a wastestream, usually expressed in mg/l.
   “CONTROL AUTHORITY.” Refers to the city when there exists an approved
pretreatment program under the provisions of 40 CFR 403.11.
   “COOLING WATER.” The water discharge from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   “DAILY MAXIMUM.” The maximum allowable value for any single observation in a
given day.
   “DILUTE WASTESTREAM.” Boiler blowdown, sanitary wastewater, noncontact
cooling water and certain process wastestreams that have been excluded from
regulation in categorical pretreatment standards because they contain none or
only trace amounts of the regulated pollutant.
   “DIRECT DISCHARGE.” The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   “DISCHARGER.” Any person that discharges or causes a discharge to a public
sewer.
   “DOMESTIC WASTEWATER.” The water-carried wastes produced from noncommercial
or nonindustrial activities and which result from normal human living
processes.
   “EASEMENT.” An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   “EFFLUENT.” The liquid overflow of any facility designed to treat, convey or
retain wastewater.
   “ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA.” The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of that agency.
   “EQUIPMENT.” All movable, nonfixed items necessary to the wastewater
treatment process.
   “FLOW PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE.” Combination of individual samples
proportional to the flow of the wastestream at the time of sampling.
   “FLOW WEIGHTED AVERAGING FORMULA (FWA).” A procedure used to calculate
alternative limits for a categorical pretreatment standard where regulated and
nonregulated wastestreams combine after treatment, but prior to the monitoring
point as defined in 40 CFR 403.
   “GARBAGE.” The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of foods.
   “GRAB SAMPLE.” A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow of the wastestream and without consideration
of time.
   “HOLDING TANK WASTE.” Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum- pump tank trucks.
   “INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.” All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined in this section.
   “INDIRECT DISCHARGE.” The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants from any source regulated under section 307(b) or (c) of the Act,
(33 U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into
the system).
   “INDUSTRIAL USER (IU).” A source of indirect discharge which does not
constitute a “discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to
Section 402 of the Clean Water Act.
   “INDUSTRIAL WASTES.” The wastewater from industrial or commercial processes
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   “INTERCEPTOR.” A device designed and installed so as to separate and retain
deleterious, hazardous or undesirable matter from normal wastes which permits
normal sewage or liquid wastes to discharge into the sewer or drainage system
by gravity. “INTERCEPTOR” as defined herein is commonly referred to as a
grease, oil, or sand trap.
   “INTERFERENCE.” A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in
compliance with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits
issued thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): Section 405
of the Clean Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including Title
II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(RCRA), and including state regulations contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research and
Sanctuaries Act (40 CFR 403.3).
   “MONTHLY AVERAGE.” The maximum allowable value for the average of all
observations obtained during one month.
   “MULTI-UNIT SEWER CUSTOMER.” A location served where there are two or more
residential units or apartments, two or more businesses in the same building or
complex or where there is any combination of business and residence in the same
building or complex.
   “NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD.” Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Clean Water Act which applies to
a specific category of industrial users. This term includes prohibitive
discharge limits established pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5.
   “NATIONAL (OR KENTUCKY) POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES/
KPDES PERMIT.” A permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C.
1332), or a permit issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky under this authority
and referred to as KPDES.
   “NATURAL OUTLET.” Any outlet, including storm sewers, into a watercourse,
pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or groundwater.
   “NEW SOURCE.” Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a Section 307(c) (33 U.S.C.
1317) categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to such
source, if such standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal
in the Federal Register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days
after proposal, a “NEW SOURCE” means any source, the construction of which is
commenced after the date of promulgations of the standard.
   “NINETY (90) DAY COMPLIANCE REPORT.” A report submitted by a categorical
industrial user, within 90 days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical standards that documents and certifies the compliance
status of the user (40 CFR 403.12(d)).
   “ORDINANCE.” This chapter, unless otherwise specified.
   “PASS THROUGH.” A discharge of pollutant which cannot be treated adequately
by the POTW, and therefore exits into waters of the United States in quantities
or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources; is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW's
NPDES/KPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) (40 CFR 403.3).
    “PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORT.” A report on compliance status submitted by
significant industrial users to the control authority at least semiannually (40
CFR 403.12(e)).
   “PERSON.” Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estates, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agent, or
assigns.
   “pH.” The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
   “POLLUTION.” The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   “POLLUTANT.” Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical, wrecked or discharged equipment,
rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste
discharged into water.
   “POTW TREATMENT PLANT.” That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
   “PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT.” The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process changes by other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR Section 403.6
(d).
   “PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.” Any substantive or procedure requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard imposed on a significant user.
   “PROCESS WASTEWATER.” Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production of or use of any
raw material, intermediate product, finished product, byproduct, or waste
product.
   “PRODUCTION-BASED STANDARD.” A discharge limitation expressed in terms of
allowable pollutant mass discharge rate per unit of production and is applied
directly to an industrial user's manufacturing process.
   “PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.” Any regulation developed under the
authority of 307(b) of the Act and 40 CFR, Section 403.(5).
   “PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.” The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2 inch in any direction.
   “PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).” A treatment works as defined by
Section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this instance by the
city. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purpose of this chapter,
“POTW” shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users
of the city's POTW.
   “PUBLIC SEWER.” A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility. In general, the public sewer shall include the main sewer in the
street and the service branch to the curb or property line, or a main sewer on
private property and the service branch to the extent of ownership by public
authority.
   “REGULATED WASTESTREAM.” An industrial process wastestream regulated by a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   “SANITARY SEWER.” A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings industrial plants, and institutions.
   “SEWAGE.” The spent water of a community. Domestic or sanitary waste shall
mean the liquid or water-carried wastes from residences,commercial buildings,
and institutions as distinct from industrial sewage. The terms “SEWAGE” and
“WASTEWATER” are used interchangeably.
   “SEWERAGE.” Any and all facilities used for collecting, conveying, pumping,
treating, and disposing of wastewater.
   “SEWER USER CHARGES.” A system of charges levied on users of a POTW for the
cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement, of such works.
   “SEWER SYSTEM OR WORKS.” All facilities for collecting, transporting,
pumping, treating, and disposing of sewage and sludge, namely the sewerage
system and POTW.
   “SEWER.” A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   “SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU).” Defined by EPA regulations as:
      (1)   All industrial users subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards
under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N; and
      (2)   Any noncategorical industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges 25,000 gallons per day or more of process wastewater
(“process wastewater” excludes sanitary noncontact cooling, and boiler blowdown
wastewaters);
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic (BOD, TSS, and the like)
capacity of the treatment plant; or
         (c)   Has a reasonable potential, in the opinion of the control or
approval authority, to adversely affect the POTW treatment plant (inhibition,
pass through of pollutants, sludge contamination or endangerment of POTW
workers) or violate any requirements of this chapter. The city may determine
that an industrial user subject to categorical pretreatment standards is a non-
significant categorical industrial user rather than a significant industrial
user on a finding that the industrial user never dischargers more than 100
gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-
contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in
the pretreatment standard) and the following conditions are met:
            1.   The industrial user, prior to the city’s finding, has
consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards
and requirements;
            2.   The industrial user annually submits the certification
statement required in 40 CFR 403.12(q) together with any additional information
necessary to support the certification statement; and
            3.   The industrial user never discharges any untreated
concentrated process wastewater.
   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in this section has no
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may at any time,
on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an industrial
user, and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that
such user should not be considered a “SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER”.
   “SLUG DISCHARGE.” Any discharge of a nonroutine episodic nature including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or noncustomary batch discharge or any
discharge of water or wastewater in which the concentration of any given
constituent or quantity of flow exceeds, for any period of duration longer that
15 minutes, more that five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow rate
during normal operation which adversely affects the POTW.
   “SLUG LOAD.” Any pollutant (including Biochemical Oxygen Demand) released in
a discharge at a flow rate or concentration which will cause interference with
the operation of the treatment works or which exceeds limits set forth in the
wastewater contribution permit and which include accidental spills.
   “SPILL PREVENTION AND CONTROL PLAN.” A plan prepared by an industrial user
to minimize the likelihood of a spill and to expedite control and cleanup
activities should a spill occur.
   “SPLIT SAMPLE.” Portion of a collected sample given to the industry or to
another agency to verify or compare laboratory results.
   “STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC).” A classification scheme based on
the type of industry or process at a facility.
   “STANDARD METHOD.” The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the recent editions of “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater,” published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation
and as set forth in the Congressional Record 40 CFR 136.
   “STATE.” The Commonwealth of Kentucky.
   “STORM DRAIN.” (Sometimes termed “STORM SEWER”). A drain or sewer for
conveying water, groundwater, surface water, or unpolluted water from any
source.
   “STORM WATER.” Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   “SUPERINTENDENT.” The person designated by the city to supervise the
operation of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain
duties and responsibilities by this chapter; or his duly authorized
representative.
   “SURCHARGE.” A charge for services in addition to the basic sewer user and
debt service charges, for those users whose contributions contain Biochemical
Oxygen Demand (BOD5), Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD), Total Suspended Solids
(TSS), oil and grease or ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N) in concentrations which
exceed limits specified herein for such pollutants. Where authorized by the
control authority, payment of a surcharge will authorize the discharge of the
referenced pollutants so long as the discharge does not cause pass through or
interference.
   “SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS).” Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in “Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Wastewater”.
   “TIME PROPORTIONAL COMPOSITE SAMPLE.” Combination of individual samples with
fixed volumes taken at specific time intervals.
   “TOXIC ORGANIC MANAGEMENT PLAN.” Written plan submitted by industrial users
as an alternative to TTO monitoring, which specifies the toxic organic
compounds used, the method of disposal used and procedures for assuring that
toxic organics do not routinely spill or leak into wastewater discharged to the
POTW.
   “TOXIC POLLUTANT.” Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of EPA under the
provisions of the Clean Water Act 307(a) or any amendments thereto.
   “UNPOLLUTED WATER.” Water of quality equal to or better than the treatment
works effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   “UNREGULATED WASTESTREAM.” A wastestream that is not regulated by National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   “USER.” Any person who contributes, causes, or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   “WASTEWATER.” The spent water of a community. Sanitary or domestic wastes
shall mean the liquid and water carried wastes from residences, commercial
buildings, and institutions as distinct from industrial waste.
   “WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT (WCP).” A permit issued to industrial users
which authorizes discharges to the public sewers as set forth in §
51.081.
   “WASTEWATER FACILITIES.” The structures, equipment, and processes required
to collect, carry away, treat domestic and industrial wastes, and dispose of
the effluent.
   “WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.” An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with ”WASTE TREATMENT PLANT”, “WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT”, “WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT”, or “SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT”.
   “WATERCOURSE.” A natural or artificial channel for the passage or water
either continuously or intermittently.
   “WATERS OF THE STATE.” All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface, or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11)
§ 51.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meaning:
   ADMI - American Dye Manufacturers Institute.
   ASTM - American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BMP - Best Management Practices.
   BOD - Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
   BPJ - Best Professional Judgment.
   CFR - Code of Federal Regulations.
   CIU - Categorical Industrial User.
   CWA - Clean Water Act (33 USC 1251 et seq.).
   CWF - Combined Wastestream Formula.
   EPA - Environmental Protection Agency.
   FWA - Flow Weighted Average.
   FR - Federal Register.
   GC - Gas Chromatography.
   GC/MS - Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectroscopy.
   gpd - Gallons per day.
   IU - Industrial User.
   l - Liter.
   mg - Milligrams.
   mg/l - Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES- National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   KPDES- Kentucky Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   POTW - Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
   QA - Quality Assurance.
   QC - Quality Control.
   RCRA - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SIC - Standard Industrial Classification.
   SIU - Significant Industrial User.
   SWDA - Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901, et. seq.
   TSS - Total Suspended Solids.
   TTO - Total Toxic Organics.
   USC - United States Code.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.015 MANDATORY SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street; alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is
hereby required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet
(30.5 meters) of the property line.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater where public sanitary sewer service is available, as defined in
division (A) of this section, except as provided for in §§
51.030 and
51.031.
   (C)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public system within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and any
septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private wastewater disposal facilities
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material or salvaged and
removed.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.016 DISCHARGES TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL OUTLETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited any pollutant in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city except in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment or management has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter. No provision
of this chapter shall be construed to relieve the owner of a discharge to any
natural outlet of the responsibility for complying with applicable state and
federal regulations governing such discharge.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.017 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL, STATE, AND FEDERAL LAWS.
   The discharge of any wastewater into the public sewer system by any person
is unlawful except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and any
more stringent state or federal standards promulgated pursuant, to the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, the Clean Water Act of 1977,
and subsequent amendments, and 40 CFR 403.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.018 DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS INTO SEWER.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged, through any
leak, defect, or connection any unpolluted waters such as storm water,
groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage to any sanitary sewer, building
sewer, building drain or building plumbing. The superintendent or his
representative shall have the right, at any time, to inspect the inside or
outside of buildings or smoke test for connections, leaks, or defects to
building sewers and require disconnection or repair of any such pipes carrying
such water to the building sewer. No sanitary drain sump or sump pump discharge
by manual switch-over of discharge connection shall have a dual use for removal
of such water.
   (B)   The owners of any building sewers having such connections, leaks, or
defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.019 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with performance of the POTW
or cause pass through to the receiving stream. These general prohibitions apply
to all such users of a POTW whether or not the user is subject to National
Categorical Pretreatment standards or any other national, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements. A user shall not contribute the
following substances to the POTW:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall the wastewater exhibit a
closed cup flashpoint of less than 140° F. or 60° C. using the test methods
specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 10.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the POTW.
   (C)   Any slug load of pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants
(BOD, and the like), released at a flow rate and/or concentration that will
cause interference with the normal operation of the POTW.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities.
   (E)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW that will
result in a treatment plant influent temperature which exceeds 400° C. (104°
F.).
   (F)   Any pollutant(s) which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
   (G)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or
disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under Section 405 of the
Act; any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the
Toxic Substances Control Act, or State criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
   (H)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/KPDES
permit and/or sludge disposal system permit.
   (I)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants except at discharge points designated
by the POTW.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11)
Penalty, see § 51.999
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.030 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§§
51.015 through
51.019, the building sewer shall be connected, until the public sewer is
available, to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of the Bath County Health Department and all applicable local and
state regulations.
   (B)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (C)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by applicable
local or state regulations.
   (D)   Holders of NPDES/KPDES permits excepted. Industries with current
NPDES/KPDES permits may discharge at permitted discharge points provided they
are in compliance of the issuing authority.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.031 REQUIREMENTS FOR INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all local or state regulations.
   (B)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the local and state
authorities.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.045 PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits required; for
residential and for service to commercial and industrial establishments. In
either case, the owner(s) or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the City. Applicants for service to commercial and industrial
establishments shall be required to furnish information about all waste
producing activities, wastewater characteristics and constituents. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. Details
regarding commercial and industrial permits include, but are not limited to
those required by this chapter. Permit and inspection fees shall be paid to the
city at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   Users shall promptly notify the city in advance of any introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the POTW. The Superintendent
may deny or condition the new introduction or change in discharge based on the
information submitted in the notification or additional information as may be
requested.
   (C)   No person(s) shall uncover, plug, or make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining permission from the Superintendent.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.046 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, basement wall
seepage or floor seepage, exterior foundation, drains, areaway drains, or other
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any such
connections which already exist on the effective date of this chapter shall be
completely and permanently disconnected within 60 days of the effective date of
this chapter. The owner(s) of any building sewers having such connections,
leaks, or defects shall bear all costs incidental to removal of such sources.
Pipes, sumps, and pumps for such sources of ground and surface water shall be
separate from waste water facilities. Removal of such sources of water without
presence of separate facilities shall be evidence of drainage to public
sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Floor, basement, or crawl space drains which are lower than ground
surfaces surrounding the building shall not be connected to the building
sanitary sewer. No sanitary inlet which is lower than six inches above the top
of the lowest of the two adjacent public sanitary sewer manholes shall be
connected by direct drainage to the building sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.047 DESIGN AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway. The sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
single connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirement of this chapter. Permit and inspection fees for new buildings using
existing building sewers shall be the same as for new building sewers. If
additional sewer customers are added to the old building sewers, additional
sewer tap fees shall be charged accordingly even though no new sewer tap is
actually made into the city system.
   (C)   Extension of customer service lines from any point on the customer's
side of the tap for delivery of waste from any location other than that of the
customer in whose name the tap is registered shall not be permitted.
   (D)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74, latest
revision, PVC (polyvinyl-chloride) sewer pipe, ASTM D-3034, latest revision,
unglazed clay sewer pipe, ASTM C-261, latest revision, vitrified clay sewer
pipe, ASTM C-700, latest revision, or ductile iron pipe, AWWA specification C-
151 cement lined, and shall meet requirements of the State Plumbing Code.
Joints shall be as set out hereinafter. Any part of the building sewer that is
located within five feet of a water service pipe shall be constructed with cast
iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe, unless the building sewer is at least one
foot deeper in the ground than the water service line. In the latter case,
vitrified clay pipe may be used. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe may
be required by the city where the building sewer is exposed to damage or
stoppage by tree roots. Cast iron soil pipe or ductile iron pipe shall be used
in filled or unstable ground, in areas where the cover over the building sewer
is less than three feet, or in areas where the sewer is subject to vehicular or
other external loads.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the local and state building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
   (F)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. Fees for connection shall
be as established by the city.
   (G)   The owner shall ensure that all excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city.
   (H)   In all buildings in which any sanitary facility drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain
shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the same building sewer.
Drain pipe and sump for collection of such sanitary drainage shall be above
basement floor or in separately watertight or drained sump or channel.
   (I)   The building sewer shall be connected into the public sewer at the
easement or property line. Where no property located service branch is
available, an authorized agent of the city shall cut a neat hole into the main
line of the public sewer and a suitable wye or tee saddle installed to receive
the building sewer. The invert of the building sewer at such point of
connection with a saddle shall be in the upper quadrant to the main line of the
public sewer. A neat workmanlike connection, not extending past the inner
surface of the public sewer, shall be made and the saddle made secure and
watertight by encasement in epoxy cement specially prepared for this purpose. A
wye and H bend fitting shall be installed at the property line between the
public sewer and the building sewer. This fitting shall serve the purpose of a
cleanout and for applying the smoke test during inspection of the line. After
testing, a cast iron or ductile iron riser will be inserted in this fitting and
brought flush with the ground surface. A stopper or plug, outfitted with a type
joint applicable to the pipe used, shall seal this riser against the intrusion
of ground or surface water.
   (J)   All building sanitary sewer lines will be installed so as to meet or
exceed the most current revision of the State Plumbing Code.
   (K)   All persons working on city sewers with a cleaning rod must use an
approved type rod in cleaning sewer connections to city sewers.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.048 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his representative. The connections shall be made gastight and watertight
and verified by proper testing.
   (B)   All building sewers shall be smoke tested through the wye branch at
the public sewer connection, with public sewer tightly plugged off, after
connections at both ends are made and after all pipe is properly bedded and
backfilled at least to top of pipe and if backfill is completed, within two
weeks after completion of backfill. At time of test, any openings into the
building drain inside the building shall be water trapped or plugged. Any
leakage of smoke from building sewer or building drain and plumbing shall be
located at test and repaired to stand repetition of smoke test without leakage.
When smoke testing is completed, the temporary flow line plug shall be removed
and a permanent water tight plug shall be placed in branch of test wye-branch
and carefully backfilled by hand and tamped to at least six inches above the
top of the branch.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
POLLUTANT DISCHARGE LIMITS
§ 51.060 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The following described substances, materials, waters or wastes shall be
limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentration or quantities which
will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process, or equipment;
will maintain and protect water quality in the receiving stream; and will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set additional limitations or limitations more stringent
than those established in the provisions below if in his opinion more severe
limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his opinion
as to the acceptability of a discharge, the Superintendent shall give
consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to
flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.061 RESTRICTED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil origin.
   (B)   Wastewater containing floatable oils, fat, or grease, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures 32°
- 150° F. (0° - 65° C.).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, motels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, causes the city to violate the terms of its KPDES permit, prevents the
use of acceptable sludge disposal methods, or exceed a limitation set forth in
a Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   (E)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations.
   (F)   Any water or wastes which by interaction with other water or wastes in
the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids which
interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious to
structures and treatment processes.
   (G)   Any wastewater with objectionable color which cannot be removed to an
acceptable level within the operation of the wastewater treatment process
unless otherwise specifically noted in the wastewater contribution permit
(WCP).
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed to the
extent required by the city's NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (I)   Any waste(s) or wastewater(s) classified as a hazardous waste by the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) without a 60-day prior
notification of such discharge to the Superintendent. This notification must
include the name of the hazardous waste, the EPA hazardous waste number, type
of discharge, volume/mass of discharge, and time of occurrence(s). The
Superintendent may prohibit or condition the discharge(s) at any time.
   (J)   (1)   Any water or wastes which have characteristics based on a 24-
hour composite sample, grab or a shorter period composite sample, if more
representative, that exceed the following normal maximum domestic wastewater
parameter concentrations:
 
Parameter              Maximum Allowable Concentration Ceiling Concentration
                       Without Surcharges
BOD                    280 mg/l                        500 mg/l
TSS                    220 mg/l
NH3-N                  20 mg/l
Oil and Grease (total) 100 mg/l
 
      (2)   Any user discharging wastewater exceeding the maximum allowable
concentration as noted above but not exceeding the ceiling concentration, will
be subject to a surcharge fee for each pound loading over and above the
allowable limit. Surcharge rates will be doubled for any user discharging
wastewater exceeding the ceiling concentration. In addition, the city may take
enforcement action in accordance with the Enforcement Response Plan in response
to all discharges above the maximum allowable concentration and/or the ceiling
concentration. Any other amenable constituents requiring the addition of
specific chemicals for proper treatment will also be subject to surcharge as
noted on the wastewater contribution permit. Exceedance of the allowable
effluent limits specified above shall not be deemed to constitute a violation
of a permit condition or this chapter if the appropriated surcharge fee is paid
and the discharge, does not cause interference or pass through of the POTW.
   (K)   (1)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of
any wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system and discharged
to the Owingsville Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) subject to any compliance
schedule as established in the industrial user permit. All significant
industrial users must comply with these limitations where they are more
stringent than applicable state and/or federal regulations.
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Parameter            Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Cadmium              0.07
Chromium,Total       2.50
Chromium, Hexavalent 0.74
Copper            1.41
Cyanide, Amenable    0.40
Lead                 0.40
Nickel               1.95
Zinc                 2.00
Silver               0.25
Arsenic              0.40
Mercury              2000 nanograms/l
Molybdenum           1.47
Selenium             0.71
 
      (2)   The following limitations are established for characteristics of
any wastewaters to be discharged into the municipal sewer system and discharged
to the Bath County Industrial Park Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) subject to
any compliance schedule as established in the industrial user permit. All
significant industrial users must comply with these limitations where they are
more stringent than applicable state and/or federal regulations.
Parameter Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Parameter                    Maximum Daily Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic                      0.28
BOD, 5-day                   1543
Total Suspended Solids (TSS) 629
Ammonia-nitrogen             40
Phosphorus, Total            Report
Total oil and grease         150
Cadmium                      0.013
Chromium, Total              1.71
Chromium, Hexavalent         0.19
Copper                    0.56
Cyanide, Amenable            0.13
Lead                         0.05
Mercury                      0.001
Nickel                       0.26
Selenium                     0.06
Silver                       0.13
Zinc                         1.02
 
   (L)   The city has received authority through the U.S. EPA and state
statutes to enforce the requirements of 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts
405-471, and 40 CFR 403, and 40 CFR Part 35. All users shall comply with the
requirements of those regulations.
   (M)   The pretreatment coordinator and/or his or her designee is authorized
to establish local limits pursuant to 40 CFR 403.5(c). In addition, the
pretreatment coordinator may develop Best Management Practices (BMPs), by
ordinance or in individual wastewater discharge permits, to implement local
limits and the requirements of this chapter. Such BMPs shall be considered
local limits and pretreatment standards.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 10-1992, passed 1-11-93; Am. Ord. 6-
1998, passed 7-20-98; Am. Ord. 5-2006, passed 10-18-06; Am. Ord. 2- 2009,
passed 6-8-09; Am. Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11; Am. Ord. 4-2017, passed 6-12-
17; Am. Ord. 1-2022, passed 1-10-22) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 DILUTION OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in any pollutant specific limitation
developed by the city or state.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.063 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptor shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located as
to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the
maintaining of these interceptors the owner(s) shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and
shall maintain records of the dates, and means of disposal. The city may
require reporting of such information for their review. Any removal and hauling
of the collected materials not performed by owner(s) personnel must be
performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms. Interceptors shall also
comply with applicable regulations of the County Health Department.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.064 SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the requirements imposed on publicly owned wastewater
treatment works by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972
and later amendments, all Pretreatment Standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency for new and existing industrial dischargers to
public sewer systems are hereby made a part of this chapter. Any industrial
waste discharge which violates these EPA Pretreatment Standards shall be in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, the industry shall be solely responsible for
the continued maintenance in satisfactory and effective operation of such
facilities and at their expense. The city may agree to assume these
responsibilities if proper and appropriate arrangements for reimbursement of
costs are made.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who transports septic tank, seepage pit or cesspool
contents, liquid industrial waste or other batch liquid waste and wishes to
discharge such waste to the public sewer system shall first have a valid
trucker's discharge permit. All applicants for a trucker's discharge permit
shall complete the application form, pay the appropriate fee, and receive a
copy of the city's regulations governing discharge to sewers of liquid wastes
from trucks. All persons receiving such permits shall agree, in writing, to
abide by all applicable provisions of this chapter, and any other special
provisions that may be established by the city as necessary or the proper
operation and maintenance of the sewerage system.
      (2)   In addition any person holding a valid permit and wishing to
discharge to the wastewater treatment plant must submit to the chief operator a
sample of each load prior to discharge. A fee and payment schedule shall be
established in the permit to cover cost of the required analysis.
      (3)   It shall be illegal to discharge any batch liquid waste into any
manhole or other part of the public sewer system, or any building sewer or
other facility that discharges to the public sewer system, except at designated
points of discharge specified by the city for such purpose.
      (4)   Any liquid waste hauler illegally discharging to the public sewer
system or discharging wastewater not authorized in the permit shall be subject
to immediate revocation of discharge privileges and further subject to the
penalties and enforcement actions prescribed in §§ 51.51.131 through
51.135 and §
51.999 including fines and imprisonment.
      (5)   Waste haulers who have been granted permission to discharge to the
public sewer system shall pay fees for such discharge in accordance with a fee
schedule established by the Superintendent and approved by the city.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve waste haulers of the
responsibility for compliance with County Health Department, state or federal
regulations.
§ 51.065 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL AND SLUG DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each significant user shall provide protection from accidental
and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by
this chapter which adversely affects the POTW. Facilities to prevent accidental
and/or slug discharges of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained
at the owner or user's own cost and expense. Once every two years, the
Superintendent will determine whether each industrial user needs to develop or
update a plan to control slug discharges. If the Superintendent determines that
a slug control plan or revision is necessary, the plan shall contain the
following:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices.
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals.
         (c)   Procedures for notifying POTW.
         (d)   Prevention procedures for spills.
      (2)   In the case of all possible or actual accidental and/or slug
discharges, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and
notify the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
   (B)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as
a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this subchapter, the
enforcement response plan or other applicable law.
   (C)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.066 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.067 CITY'S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish by chapter more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.068 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards for
a particular industrial subcategory, the Federal Standard, if more stringent
than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory,
shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.080 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to the POTW any wastewater except as
authorized by the city in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any agency, nondomestic user, and/or industry outside the jurisdiction
of the city that desires to contribute wastewater to the POTW must execute
(through an authorized representative) an interjurisdictional agreement,
whereby the agency and/or industry agrees to be regulated by all provisions of
this chapter and state and federal regulations. A wastewater contribution
permit may then be issued by the Superintendent in accordance with §
51.081.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.081 WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users proposing to connect to or to
contribute to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution permit before
connecting to or contributing to the POTW. The pretreatment coordinator may
require users to obtain a wastewater contribution permit as necessary to carry
out the purposes of this chapter. Any violation of the terms and conditions of
a wastewater contribution permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter
and subjects the permittee to the sanctions set out in §§ 151.125 through
151.135.
   (B)   Permit application. Users required to obtain a wastewater contribution
permit shall complete and file with the city, an application in the form
prescribed by the city, and accompanied by a permit fee. New users shall apply
at least 90 days prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW. Existing
permit holder shall apply no later than 60 days prior to expiration of permit.
In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and terms
appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location if different from the address;
      (2)   SIC number(s) according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, United States Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics as determined by an
analytical laboratory acceptable to the city; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to
Section 304 (g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variation if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location,
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by the city, state, or Federal Pretreatment
Standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional pretreatment
is required for the user to meet applicable Pretreatment Standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment will be required to meet the
Pretreatment Standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable Pretreatment
Standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule must be acceptable to the city.
         (b)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and separation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable Pretreatment Standards.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress and the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process, or processes, and
the rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number of employees, and hours of operation of plant and proposed
or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
      (14)   A copy of the industry's written environmental control program,
comparable document, or policy.
   (C)   Issuance. The city shall evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the Superintendent or his designee may issue a wastewater
contribution permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein. The
Superintendent shall provide notice to each significant industrial user of the
issuance of the user’s wastewater contribution permit. Any person, including
the user, may petition the Superintendent to reconsider the terms of a permit
within 15 days of notice of its issuance.
      (1)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the administrative appeal.
      (2)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the permit
provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection and the alternative
condition, if any, it seeks to place in the permit.
      (3)   The effectiveness of the permit shall not be stayed during the
appeal.
      (4)   The Superintendent may forward the appeal to the Mayor. If the
Mayor fails to act within 30 days of receipt of the appeal, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a
permit, not to issue a permit, or not to modify a permit shall be considered
final administrative actions for purposes of judicial review.
      (5)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final
administrative action and/or the permit must do so by filing a complaint with
the Bath County Circuit Court in accordance with the appropriate procedures of
that court and any statute of limitations.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.082 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   The Superintendent may modify a wastewater contribution permit for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (A)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements;
   (B)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
   (C)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
   (D)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat to
the city POTW, personnel, biosolids disposal and/or the receiving stream;
   (E)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the Industrial User Permit;
   (F)   Misrepresentations of failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
   (G)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13; or
   (H)   To correct typographical or other errors in the discharge permit.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.083 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Wastewater contribution permits shall be expressly subject to all provisions
of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges and fees
established by the city. Permits may contain the following:
   (A)   The unit surcharges or schedule of other charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
   (B)   Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, on the average
and/or maximum wastewater constituents and characteristics;
   (C)   Limits on average and/or maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
   (D)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (E)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
location; frequency of sampling; number, type, and standards for tests; and
reporting schedule;
   (F)   Compliance schedules;
   (G)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge reports.
   (H)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining, for a minimum of three
years, all plant records relating to pretreatment and/or wastewater discharge
as specified by the city, and affording city access thereto as required by 40
CFR 403:12(o) (2);
   (I)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system.
   (J)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges.
   (K)   The permit may require the user to reimburse the city for all expenses
related to monitoring, sampling and testing performed at the direction of the
Superintendent and deemed necessary by the city to verify that the user is in
compliance with the permit.
   (L)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   (M)   A statement that indicates the industrial wastewater discharge permit
issuance date, expiration date and effective date;
   (N)   A statement that the industrial wastewater discharge permit is
nontransferable.
   (O)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
pretreatment coordinator, to be necessary.
   (P)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable federal, state or local law.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11)
§ 51.084 ALTERNATIVE DISCHARGE LIMITS.
   (A)   Where an effluent from a categorical industrial process(es) is mixed
prior to treatment with wastewater other than that generated by the regulated
process, fixed alternative discharge limits may be derived for the discharge
permit by the Superintendent. These alternative limits shall be applied to the
mixed effluent and shall be calculated using the Combined Wastestream Formula
and/or Flow-Weighted Average Formula as defined in §
51.002.
   (B)   Where the effluent limits in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard are
expressed only in terms of mass of pollutants per unit of production
(production-based standard), the superintendent may convert the limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day
or of effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent permit
limitations applicable to the permittee. The permittee shall be subject to all
permit limits calculated in this manner under 40 CFR 403.6(c) and must fully
comply with these alternative limits.
   (C)   All categorical users subject to production-based standards must
report production rates annually so that alternative permit limits can be
calculated if necessary. The categorical user must notify the Superintendent 30
days in advance of any major change in production levels that will affect the
limits for the discharge permit.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.085 PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum
of 60 days prior to the expiration of the user's existing permit. The terms and
conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the city during the
term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified in §§
51.060 through
51.068 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in their permit at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.086 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater contribution permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater contribution permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation without a 30 day prior notification to the Superintendent and
provision of a copy of the existing permits to the new owner. The
Superintendent may deny the transfer of the permit if it is deemed necessary.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.087 COMPLIANCE DATA REPORTING.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
Categorical Pretreatment Standards or, in the case of a new user, following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards and Requirements shall submit, to
the Superintendent, a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
Categorical Pretreatment Standards and Requirements and the average and maximum
daily flow for these process units in the user's facility which are limited by
such Categorical Pretreatment Standards or Requirements. The report shall state
whether the applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standards or Requirements are
being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional pretreatment and
time schedule, is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the
applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standards or Requirements. This statement
shall be signed by an authorized representative of the user.
   (B)   When compliance schedules are required, the following conditions shall
apply:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring and engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing
contracts for major components, commencing and completing construction, and
beginning and conducting routine operation);
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11)
§ 51.088 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall submit, to the Superintendent,
every six months (on dates specified in the wastewater contribution permit)
unless required more frequently by the permit, a report indicating, at a
minimum, the nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent which are
limited by such Pretreatment Standards or the discharge permit. The report
shall also include the chain-of-custody (COC) forms, field data and any other
information required by the Superintendent. In addition, this report shall
include a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded
the average daily flow. At the discretion of the Superintendent and in
consideration of such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget
cycles, and the like, the Superintendent may agree to alter the months during
which the above reports are to be submitted. All periodic compliance reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with 40 CFR 403.12 and §
51.094.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge. All analyses shall be performed by a laboratory acceptable to
the city. Analytical procedures shall be in accordance with procedures
established by the U.S. EPA Administrator pursuant to Section 304 (g) of the
Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part 136 and amendments thereto and 40 CFR 261 or
with any other test procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator. Sampling
shall be performed in accordance with the techniques approved by the U.S. EPA
Administrator. Except as indicated in divisions (B)(1) and (2) below, the user
must collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite
sampling techniques, unless time- proportional composite sampling or grab
sampling is authorized by the Superintendent. Where time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the Superintendent, the samples must
be representative of the discharge. Using protocols (including appropriate
preservation) specified in 40 CFR Part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance,
multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows; for cyanide, total phenols and sulfides the samples
may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and
oil and grease, the samples may be composited in the laboratory. Composite
samples for other parameters unaffected by the composting procedures as
documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the
Superintendent, as appropriate. In addition, grab samples may be required to
show compliance with instantaneous limits. (1) Samples for oil and grease,
temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols, sulfides and volatile organic
compounds must be obtained using grab collection techniques; (2) For sampling
required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-day compliance reports
required in 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (d), a minimum of four grab samples must be
used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil dnd grease, sulfide and volatile
organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not
exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the
Superintendent may authorize a lower minimum. For the reports required by 40
CFR 403.12(e) and (h), the Industrial User is required to collect the number of
grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (C)   Where 40 CFR Part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant(s) in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication.
“Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants,” April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the U.S. EPA Administrator.
   (D)   A Baseline Monitoring Report (BMR) must be submitted to the
Superintendent by all categorical industrial users at least 90 days prior to
initiation of discharge to the sanitary sewer. The BMR must contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   Production Data: A process description, SIC code number, raw
materials used, chemicals used, final product, pretreatment industrial category
(if applicable), and a schematic which indicates points of discharge to the
sewer system.
      (2)   Identifying information to include name, address off facility,
owner(s), contact person, and any other permits held by the facility.
      (3)   Wastewater characteristics: Total plant flow, types of discharges,
average and maximum flows from each process.
      (4)   Nature/concentration of pollutants: Analytical results for all
pollutants regulated by this chapter and/or any applicable federal pretreatment
standard and sample type and location. All analyses must conform with 40 CFR
Part 136 and amendments thereto.
      (5)   Information concerning any pretreatment equipment used to treat the
facility's discharge.
      (6)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's
authorized representative as defined in §
51.002 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
Pretreatment Standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or Q&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this section must meet the
requirements set out in §§
51.001 through
51.003.
   (E)   New sources shall give estimates of the information requested in
division (D)(3) and (4) of this section, but at no time shall a new source
commence discharge(s) to the public sewer of substances that do not meet
provisions of this chapter. All new sources must be in compliance with all
provisions of this chapter, state and federal pretreatment regulations prior to
commencement of discharge to the public sewer.
   (F)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to all compliance schedules required by this chapter:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards.
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and in no event
shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the
Superintendent.
   (G)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements fold
documentation associated with Best Management Practices as may be required.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of sampling and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain available for
a period of at least three years. This period shall automatically be extended
for the duration of any litigation concerning the user or the city or where the
user has been specifically notified of a longer retention by the
Superintendent.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.089 PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users must notify the Superintendent within
24 hours of first becoming aware of a permit violation. This notification shall
include the date of violation, the parameter violated and the amount in
exceedance.
   (B)   The user shall immediately repeat the sampling and analysis of the
parameter(s) in question and submit the results to the Superintendent within 30
days after becoming aware of the violation. Exception to this regulation is
only if the city performs the sampling within the same time period for the same
parameter(s) in question.
   (C)   Compliance with the terms of an wastewater contribution permit shall
be deemed in compliance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.090 MONITORING.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall require significant users to provide and operate,
at the user's own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling,
and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage system. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the
city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in a public right-of-way. The
Superintendent shall review and approve the location, plans, and specifications
for such monitoring facilities and may require them to be constructed to
provide for the separate monitoring and sampling of industrial waste and
sanitary sewage flows.
      (2)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility shall be designed and maintained in a manner such that the safety
of city and industrial personnel shall be foremost. The facility, sampling, and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a proper operating
condition at the expense of the user.
      (3)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
approval of the location, plans and specifications.
   (B)   All sampling analyses done in accordance with approved federal EPA
procedures by the industrial user during a reporting period shall be submitted
to the Superintendent regardless of whether or not that analysis was required
by the industrial user's discharge permit.
   (C)   The industrial user must receive the approval of the Superintendent
before changing the sampling point and/or monitoring facilities to be used in
all required sampling.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.091 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or their representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, copying records, records examination or in the performance of any of
their duties.
   (B)   The city, approval authority, and EPA shall have the right to set up
on the user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city, approval authority, and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.092 PRETREATMENT.
   All significant industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with this chapter and achieve compliance with
any applicable Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards within the time
limitations as specified by the Federal Pretreatment Regulations. The city may
require the development of a compliance schedule for installation of
pretreatment technology and/or equipment by any industrial user that cannot
meet discharge limits required by this chapter. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level required by this chapter shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city
for review, and shall be acceptable to the city before construction of the
facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent that complies with the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user's initiation of
the changes.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.093 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   The city shall annually publish in a newspaper of general circulation
that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdictions served by the
POTW, a list of significant users which were in significant noncompliance with
any Pretreatment Requirements or Standards. The notification shall also
summarize any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12
months.
   (B)   All records relating to the city's pretreatment program shall be made
available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request. All
records shall be maintained for a minimum of three years in accordance with 40
CFR 403.12(O)(2).
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11)
§ 51.094 SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   A user is defined as being in significant noncompliance when it commits one
or more of the following conditions:
   (A)   Causes imminent endangerment to human health or the environment or
results in the exercise of emergency authority under CFR 403 to halt or prevent
such a discharge;
   (B)   Involves failure to report noncompliance accurately;
   (C)   Results in a chronic violation defined here as 66% or more of all
measurements taken during a six month period that exceed (by any magnitude) the
daily maximum limit or the average limit for the same pollutant parameter.
   (D)   Results in a Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violation defined here as
33% or more of all measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during a six
month period that equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or the
average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats,
and oil and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH).
   (E)   Any violation of a pretreatment effluent limit that the control
authority determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through or has endangered the health of the POTW personnel
or the public.
   (F)   Any discharge causing imminent endangerment to human health/welfare or
to the environment or resulting in the POTW's use of its emergency authority to
halt or prevent such a discharge.
   (G)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, failure to comply with
schedule milestones for starting or completing construction or attaining final
compliance by 90 days or more after the schedule date.
   (H)   Failure to provide required reports within 30 days of the due date.
   (I)   Any violation or group of violations, which may include a violation of
Best Management Practices, which the Superintendent determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11)
§ 51.095 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests in writing and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the city that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as
trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available to all
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES/KPDES permit,
sludge disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment programs upon request.
Such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be
recognized as confidential information and shall be available to the public
without restriction.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.096 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS.
   All applications, reports, or information submitted to the city shall be
signed and certified in accordance with the following requirements. Written
designation of the signatory official must be received by the city prior to
acceptance of any application or other required document.
   (A)   All permit applications shall be signed:
      (1)   For a corporation: By a principal executive officer of at least the
level of vice-president; or
      (2)   For a partnership or sole proprietorship: By a general partner or
the proprietor, respectively.
   (B)   All other correspondence, reports, and self-monitoring reports shall
be signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative of
that person. A person is a duly authorized representative only if:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by a person described above;
or
      (2)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager,
superintendent or position of equivalent responsibility.
   (C)   Certification. Any person signing a document under this section shall
make the following written certification: "I certify under penalty of law that
this document and all attachments were prepared under my direction or
supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified
personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my
inquiry of the person(s) who manage the system, or those_persons directly
responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the
best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate and complete. I am aware that
there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations."
   (D)   A facility determined to be a non-significant categorical industrial
user by the Superintendent pursuant to §§
51.001 through
51.003 must annually submit the following certification statement signed in
accordance with the signatory requirements in this section. This certification
must accompany any alternative report required by the Superintendent:
      "Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the categorical pretreatment standards under 40 CFR
[Part], I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the
period from [month/day], [year] to [month/day], [year]:
      (1)   The facility described as [Facility Name] met the definition of a
Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User as described in §
51.002.
      (2)   The facility complied with all applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements during this reporting period; and
      (3)   The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total
categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11)
CHARGES AND FEES
§ 51.110 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides for the recovery of costs from users of the POTW
for the implementation of the program established herein. The applicable
charges or fees shall be set forth in the city's utility rate ordinance.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.111 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
city's pretreatment program:
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Fees for consistent removal by the POTW of excessive strength
conventional pollutants; or
      (7)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.112 SURCHARGE RATES.
   (A)   Surcharge rates shall be based upon the actual cost for treating
wastewater at the wastewater plant. Industries required to contribute such
surcharges shall be billed on a monthly basis, the surcharge based upon the
average strength of those composite samples taken during the previous month and
appropriate flow records.
   (B)   Surcharge rates may be revised where necessary to reflect current
treatment costs. The excessive strength surcharge shall be calculated based on
the following formulas:
 
BOD              (Cost/Pound X (Strength of discharge, MG/L-280 X (Quantity of
                 discharge*, MG) X (8.34)
Suspended Solids (Cost/Pound X (Strength of discharge, MG/L-220 X (Quantity of
                 discharge*, MG) X (8.34)
Ammonia Nitrogen (Cost/Pound X (Strength of discharge, MG/L-20 X (Quantity of
                 discharge*, MG) X (8.34)
Oil and Grease   (Cost/Pound X (Strength of discharge, MG/L-100 X (Quantity of
                 discharge*, MG) X (8.34)
 
*Total quantity of wastewater during surcharge period, million gallons.
   (C)   No reduction in sewage service charges, fees or taxes shall be
permitted because of the fact that certain wastewaters discharged to the
sanitary sewer contain less than the maximum allowable concentrations.
Unusually high BOD, suspended solids, ammonia nitrogen and/or COD may be
prohibited from discharge to the sanitary sewer until properly pretreated to
within the maximum allowable concentration limits. Such pretreatment shall be
required in lieu of surcharges when it is found that the existing wastewater
treatment facility can no longer adequately treat incoming wastewaters to
within NPDES/KPDES limits due to the excessive strength of the waste.
 
SURCHARGE RATES
   BODIn excess of 280MG/L    $0.55 per lb.
         (In excess of 500 MG/L) $1.10 per lb.
   TSSIn excess of 220MG/L    $0.43 per lb.
   NH In excess of 20MG/L     $0.12 per lb.
   O&GIn excess of 100MG/L    $0.25 per lb.
 
(Ord., 2-1995, passed 6-15-95; Am. Ord. 5-2006, passed 10-18-06)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.125 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Right to enter premises. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
employees and representatives of the city and authorized representatives of
applicable federal and state regulatory agencies bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to
discharges to the public sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Right to obtain information regarding discharge. Duly authorized
employees of the city and representatives of the state and EPA are authorized
to obtain information including but not limited to copying of records
concerning character, strength and quantity of industrial waste which have a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system.
   (C)   Access to easements. Duly authorized employees and representatives of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purpose of, but not, limited to, construction, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portions of
the wastewater facilities lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any on the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of
the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (D)   Safety. While performing the necessary work on private properties
referred to in division (C) above, all duly authorized employees of the city
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company. The city shall secure the company against loss or damage to its
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required by
this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91; Am. Ord. 10-1992, passed 1-11-93)
§ 51.126 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The city, through the Superintendent or his designee, to insure
compliance with this chapter, and as permitted through 40 CFR Subchapter N, and
401 KAR 5:055, may take the following enforcement steps, against users in
noncompliance with the chapter. The remedies available to the POTW include
injunctive relief, civil and criminal penalties, immediate discontinuance of
discharges and/or water service and the publishing of the list of significant
violators annually. The enforcement authority shall be vested in the
Superintendent or their designee.
   (B)   The Superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
a wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or
causes the city to violate any condition of its NPDES/KPDES permit.
   (C)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or eliminate
the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall
reinstate the wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be
submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.127 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provisions of this chapter,
wastewater permit, or any order issued hereunder, shall be served by the City
with written notice stating the nature of the violation(s). Within ten days of
the receipt date of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for
the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific
required actions, shall be submitted to the Superintendent. Submission of this
plan in no way relieves the user of potential liability for any violation
occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   If the violations persist or the explanation and/or plan are not
adequate, the city's response shall be more formal and commitments (or
schedules as appropriate) for compliance will be established in an enforceable
document. The enforcement response selected will be related to the seriousness
of the violation. Enforcement responses will be escalated if compliance is not
achieved expeditiously after the initial action. A significant noncompliance as
defined in §
51.094, will require a formal enforcement action.
   (C)   The full scale of enforcement actions will be as detailed, in the
enforcement response plan.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.128 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   (A)   Any user who after receiving a notice of violation shall continue to
discharge in violation of this chapter or other pretreatment standards or
requirements or is determined to be a chronic or persistent violator or who is
determined to be a significant violator, shall be ordered to appear before the
city. At the appearance, a compliance schedule will be given to the
nonconforming user and an administrative fine assessed. The fine shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis which shall consider the type and severity
of violations, duration of violation, number of violations, severity of impact
on the POTW, impact on human health, users economic benefit from violation,
history of violations, good faith of the user, and shall be a nonarbitrary but
appropriate amount.
   (B)   The administrative order may take any of the following three forms.
      (1)   Consent orders. The Superintendent or their designee is hereby
empowered to enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or
other similar documents establishing an agreement with the industrial user
responsible for the noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to
be taken by the industrial user to correct the noncompliance within a time
period also specified by the order. Consent orders shall have the same force
and effect as orders issued pursuant to division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   Compliance orders. When the Superintendent or their designee finds
that and industrial user has violated or continues to violate that chapter or a
permit or order issued thereunder, he may issue an order to the industrial user
responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, sewer service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances have been installed and are
properly operated. Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including
the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring, and
management practices.
      (3)   Cease and desist orders. When the Superintendent finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit
or order issued hereunder, the Superintendent may issue an order to cease and
desist all such violations and direct those persons in noncompliance to:
         (a)   Comply forthwith, or
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge.
(Ord., 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.129 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent or their designee may issue to any user who causes
or contributes to violations of this chapter, wastewater permit or order issued
hereunder, an order to appear and show cause why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on the user specifying the
time and place of a hearing to be held by the Superintendent regarding the
violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement
action, and directing the user to show cause, before the Superintendent, why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on any
agent or officer of the industrial user. Whether or not a duly notified
industrial user or its representative appears, immediate enforcement action may
be pursued.
   (B)   The city may, itself, conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
designate a representative to:
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the city, notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearing;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the city for
action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the city has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an order to the
user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a specified time
period, the sewer service will be discontinued unless adequate treatment
facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances are properly operated.
Further orders and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.130 ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Performance bonds. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a permit
to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder unless such user first
files with it a satisfactory bond, payable to the POTW, in a sum not to exceed
a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a
permit to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder, unless the
industrial user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances
sufficient to restore or repair POTW damage caused by its discharge.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.131 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter or a
wastewater permit or order issued hereunder, shall be served by the
Superintendent or their designee with written notice stating the nature of the
violation. The offender shall permanently remedy all violations upon receipt of
this notice.
   (B)   As contained in §§
51.126 through
51.130, the notice may be of several forms. Also as contained in §§ 51.26
through
51.130, penalties of various forms may be levied against users for violations
of this chapter. The penalties, if levied, shall range from publication of
violators in the local newspaper to administrative fines of up to $1,000 per
day per violation.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.132 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter or a
wastewater permit order issued hereunder, may be subject to termination of its
authority to discharge sewage into the municipal sewer system. Such termination
may be immediate if necessary for the protection of the POTW. The user may also
have water service terminated.
   (B)   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having his permit
revoked in accordance with the procedures of this chapter:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.133 DESTRUCTION OF POTW.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the POTW. Any person(s) violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. It
shall be noted that the Clean Water Act doe not require proof of specific
intent to obtain conviction.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
Penalty, see § 51.999
§ 51.134 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes into the
city's wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements or, any order of the city, the city
may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the
appropriate court of this jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.135 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   Whenever an industrial user has violated or continues to violate the
provisions of this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the
Superintendent, through counsel may petition the court for the issuance of a
preliminary or permanent injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which
restrains or compels the activities on the part of the industrial user.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
§ 51.136 REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
Superintendent may take any, all or combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the city’s Enforcement Response Plan. However, the
Superintendent may take other action against any user when the circumstances
warrant. Further the Superintendent is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 9-12-11)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any industrial user who has significantly violate or continues to
violate this chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, may be liable to
the Superintendent for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 per day plus
actual damages incurred by the POTW per violation per day for as long as the
violation continues. Each day in which such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense. In addition to the above described penalty and
damages, the Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court
costs, court reporter's fees, and other expenses associated with the
enforcement activities, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
      (2)   The Superintendent may petition the court to impose, assess, and
recover such sums. In determining amount of liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the industrial user's violation, corrective
actions by the industrial user, the compliance history of the user, and any
other factors as justice requires.
   (B)   Criminal prosecution - violations, general.
      (1)   Any industrial user who willfully or negligently violates any
provision of this chapter or any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed
$5,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or
both.
      (2)   Any industrial user who knowingly and/or negligently makes any
false statements, representation, or certification of any application, record,
report, plan, or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to
this chapter, or industrial user permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than
$5,000 or by imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or by both.
      (3)   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be punishable
by a fine not to exceed $10,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not
more than three years or both.
(Ord. 1-1991, passed 6-17-91)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SHORTAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Adoption of conservation measures for residential and nonresidential
users
   
52.04   Promulgation of regulations
   
52.05   Water shortage rates
Types of Shortages, Declarations
   
52.15   Water shortage advisory
   
52.16   Water shortage alert
   
52.17   Water shortage emergency
   
52.18   Hospitals and health care facilities
   
52.19   Enforcement
Water Use Rationing
   
52.30   Declaration
   
52.31   Objectives
   
52.32   Residential users
   
52.33   Nonresidential water users
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the declaration of official
phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of voluntary
and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the city in the event a
shortage is declared. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with common law riparian or statuory water rights.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ADVISORY." That conditions exist which indicate the potential for serious
water supply shortages.
   "ALERT." The raw water supplies (for example, streamflow, reservoir levels,
or groundwater levels) are consistently below seasonal averages, and if they
continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet normal needs.
   "ALLOTMENT." The maximum quantity of water allowed for each customer over
any applicable period as established in the water rationing provisions of this
chapter.
   "ANY WATER." Any type of water, including fresh water, brackish water,
wastewater, or reclaimed water.
   "BRACKISH WATER." Water containing more than 1000 parts per million of
dissolved salts.
   "CUSTOMER." Any person using water for any purpose from the city's water
distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or, in the
case of bulk sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   "EMERGENCY." That water supplies are below the level necessary to meet
normal needs and that serious shortages exist in the area.
   "EXCESS USE." The usage of water by a water customer in excess of the water
allotment provided under the water rationing provisions of this chapter for
that customer, over any applicable period.
   "FRESH WATER." Water withdrawn from surface or groundwater which has not
been previously used, other than brackish water.
   "NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER." Commercial, industrial, institu-tional, public,
and all other such users, with the exception of hospitals and health care
facilities.
   "RATIONING." Procedures established to provide for the equitable
distribution of critically-limited water supplies in order to balance demand
and limited available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is
available to preserve public health and safety.
   "RECLAIMED WATER." Wastewater which has been treated to allow reuse.
   "RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER." Any customer who receives water service for a
single- or multi-family dwelling unit. The term "RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER" does not
include educational or other institutions, hotels, motels, or similar
commercial establishments.
   "SERVICE INTERRUPTION." The temporary suspension of water supply, or
reduction of pressure below that required for adequate supply, to any customer,
portion of a water system, or entire system.
   "TREATED WATER." Water purified by the city water treatment plant, and which
is offered for sale to customers.
   "WASTE OF WATER." Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch, or other surface
drain, or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   "WASTEWATER." Water which has been previously used for industrial,
municipal, domestic, or other purpose, and has not been returned to the surface
or groundwater source.
   "WATER." Water available to the city for treatment by virtue of its water
rights or withdrawal permit.
   "WATER USE CLASSES." The following classifications are established as
follows:
      (1)   Class l Essential treated water uses.
         (a)   Domestic use: Treated water necessary to sustain human life and
the lives of domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and
sanitation.
         (b)   Health care facilities: Patient care and rehabilitation.
         (c)   Public use:
            l.    Firefighting and
            2.    Health and public protection purposes, if specifically
approved by health officials and the municipal governing body.
      (2)   Class 2 Socially or economically important uses of treated water.
All domestic uses other than those included in Classes l and 3:
         (a)   Outdoor noncommerical watering (public or private) with treated
water:
            l.    Agricultural irrigation for the production of food and fiber
or the maintenance of livestock,
            2.    Watering by commerical nurseries at a minimum level necessary
to maintain stock, to the extent that sources of water other than treated water
are not available or feasible to use,
            3.    Water use by arboretums and public gardens of national,
state, or regional significance where necessary to preserve specimens, to the
extent that sources of water other than treated water are not available or
feasible to use, and
            4.    Use of treated water at a minimum rate necessary to implement
revegetation following earth moving, where such revegetation is required
pursuant to an erosion and sedimentation control plan adopted pursuant to law
or regulation, to the extent that sources of water other than treated water are
not available or feasible to use.
         (b)   Filling and operation of certain swimming pools:
            l.    Residential pools which serve more than 25 dwelling units,
            2.    Pools used by health care facilities for patient care and
rehabilitation, and
            3.    Municipals pools.
         (c)   Washing of motor vehicles: Commerical car and truck washes,
unrestricted hours of operation.
         (d)   Commerical laundromats: Unrestricted hours of operation.
         (e)   Restaurants, clubs, and eating places: Unrestricted hours of
operation.
         (f)   Air conditioning:
            l.   Refilling for startup at the beginning of the cooling season,
            2.    Make-up of water during the cooling season, and
            3.    Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the
municipal governing body, where the system has been drained for health
protection or repair purposes.
         (g)   Schools, churches, motels/hotels, and similar commercial
establishments: Unrestricted operation.
      (3)   Class 3 Nonessential uses of treated water.
         (a)   Ornamental purposes: Fountains, reflecting pools, and artificial
waterfalls.
         (b)   Outdoor noncommercial watering (public or private):
            l.    Gardens, lawns, parks, golf courses, playing fields, and
other recreational areas.
            2.    Exceptions:
               a.    Agricultural irrigation for the production of food and
fiber or the maintenance of livestock,
               b.    Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum livel
necessary to maintain stock, to the extent that sources of water other than
treated water are not available or feasible to use,
               c.    Water use by arboretums and public gardens of national,
state, or regional significance where necessary to preserve specimens, to the
extent that sources of water other than treated water are not available or
feasible to use,
               d.    Use of treated water at a minimum rate necessary to
implement revegetation following earth moving, where such revegetation is
required pursuant to an erosion and sedimentation control plan adopted pursuant
to law or regulation, to the extent that sources of water other than treated
water are not available or feasible to use.
         (c)   Filling and operation of private swimming pools.
         (d)   Washing of motor vehicles: Automobiles, trucks, boats, and
trailers.
         (e)   Serving water in restaurants, clubs, or eating places.
Exceptions: Specific request by customer.
         (f)   Fire hydrants:
            l.    Any purpose, including use of sprinkler caps and testing fire
apparatus.
            2.    exceptions:
               a.    Firefighting,
               b.    Health protection purposes, if specifi-cally approved by
the health officials of the municipality, and
               c.    Certain testing and drills by the Fire Department, if in
the interest of public safety and is approved by the municipal governing body.
         (g)   Flushing of sewers and hydrants. Exceptions: As needed to ensure
public health and safety, and approved by health officials and the municipal
governing body.
         (h)   Air Condition:
            l.    Refilling cooling towers after draining.
            2.    Exceptions:
               a.    Refilling for startup at the beginning of the cooling
season,
               b.    Make-up of water during the cooling season,
               c.    Refilling specifically approved by health officials and
the municipal governing body, where the system has been drained for health
protection or repair purposes.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87)
§ 52.03 ADOPTION OF CONSERVATION MEASURES FOR RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL
USERS.
   (A)   Direct residential users shall adopt the following conservation
measures by:
      (1)   Locating and repairing all leaks in faucets, toilets, and water-
using appliances.
      (2)   Adjusting all water-using appliances to use the minimum amount of
water in order to achieve the appliance's purpose.
      (3)   Using automatic washing machines and dishwashers only with full
loads.
      (4)   Taking shorter showers and shallower baths.
      (5)   Turning off faucets while brushing teeth and the like.
      (6)   Turning off shower while soaping up.
      (7)   Setting temperature settings of hot water at least ten degrees
lower to discourage lengthy shower-taking.
      (8)   Where plumbing fixtures can accommodate them, installing flow-
restricting or other water-saving devices.
      (9)   Reducing the number of toilet flushes per day, each flush uses
about five gallons of water; and to reduce water used per flush by installing
toilet tank displacement inserts.
      (10)   Using sink and tub stoppers to avoid wasting water.
      (11)   Keeping a bottle of chilled water in the refrigerator.
   (B)   Direct nonresidential users shall adopt the following conservation
measures by:
      (1)   Identifying and repairing all leaky fixtures and water- using
equipment; and giving special attention to equipment connected directly to
water lines, such as processing machines, steam-using machines, washing
machines, water-cooled air conditioners, and furnaces.
      (2)   Assuring that valves and solenoids that control water flows are
shut off completely when the water-using cycle is not engaged.
      (3)   Adjusting water-using equipment to use the minimum amount of water
required to achieve its stated purpose.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87)
§ 52.04 PROMULGATION OF REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply shortage as provided for in
§§
52.15 through
52.19, the Mayor is empowered to promulgate such regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, any water supply
shortage resolution, or water shortage rate ordinance. Such regulations shall
be subject to the approval of the governing body at its next regular or
emergency meeting.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87)
§ 52.05 WATER SHORTAGE RATES.
   Upon the declaration of a water supply shortage as provided in §§
52.15 through
52.19, the City Council shall have the power to adopt water shortage rates by
ordinance designed to conserve water supplies. Such rates may provide for, but
not be limited to:
   (A)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing block rates);
   (B)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit rate);
   (C)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess demand
surcharges); or
   (D)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specified levels.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87)
TYPES OF SHORTAGES; DECLARATIONS
§ 52.15 WATER SHORTAGE ADVISORY.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that a potential shortage of
water supply is indicated, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that
a water shortage advisory exists, and that the Public Works Superintendent
shall, on a daily basis, monitor the supply and demands upon that supply. In
addition, the Mayor is authorized to call upon all water customers to employ
voluntary water conservation measures (see §
52.03) to limit water use (especially Class 3 uses) and eliminate the waste of
water. This resolution shall be published in the official city newspaper, and
may be publicized through the general news media or any other appropriate
method for making such resolutions public.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87)
§ 52.16 WATER SHORTAGE ALERT.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds raw water supplies (for
example, streamflow, reservoir levels, or groundwater levels) to be
consistently below seasonal averages, and if they continue to decline and may
not be adequate to meet normal needs, it shall be empowered to declare by
resolution that a water shortage alert exists. The city shall continue to
encourage voluntary water conservation measures defined under the advisory
declaration, and further shall impose a ban on all Class 3 water uses for the
duration of the shortage until it is declared to have ended by resolution of
the governing body. Declaration of these resolutions shall follow the
guidelines for declaration in §
52.15.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87)
§ 52.17 WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever the governing body of the city finds that raw water supplies
are below the level necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages
exist, it shall be empowered to declare by resolution that a water shortage
emergency exists. Class 1, essential uses shall be identified, in specific, as
targets for voluntary conservation initiatives. Also, all Class 2, socially or
economically important uses shall be banned in addition to the Class 3,
nonessential uses. These restrictions shall be considered ongoing until the
emergency is declared ended by resolution of the governing body. Declaration of
these resolutions shall follow the guidelines for declaration in §
52.15.
   (B)   When the Mayor has declared that a water shortage emergency exists,
the following activity will be prohibited:
      (1)   Residential – All Owingsville customers are hereby prohibited from
the exterior usage of water, including but not limited to:
         (a)   The exterior washing of homes and/or windows;
         (b)   The watering of lawns, flowers, shrubs or gardens;
         (c)   The usage of irrigation systems;
         (d)   The washing of any type of motor vehicle or pleasure craft;
         (e)   The filling up or topping off of swimming pools of any size;
         (f)   The washing of sidewalks, driveways, patios or parking areas;
and
         (g)   The refilling of decorative water fountains.
   A warning will be issued for a first offense violation, a one hundred dollar
($100.00) surcharge will be issued for a second offense violation and a two
hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) surcharge and/or possible termination of water
service will be issued for third and subsequent violations.
      (2)   Restaurants – The owners and/or operators of all restaurants are
hereby prohibited from the usage of water as follows:
         (a)   All exterior uses as outlined above; and
         (b)   Restrict service of water to customers only when requested.
   A warning will be issued for a first offense violation, a two hundred fifty
dollar ($250.00) surcharge will be issued for a second offense violation and a
five hundred dollar ($500.00) surcharge and/or possible termination of water
service will be issued for third and subsequent violations.
      (3)   Businesses – The following water usage for businesses are hereby
prohibited:
         (a)   Any and all exterior usage as outlined above.
         (b)   Non-essential businesses shall be closed during the following
hours: Laundromats will be open three (3) days a week 8:00 a.m. – 8:00 p.m.
Monday, Thursday, and Sunday.
         (c)   Car washes.
   A warning will be issued for a first offense violation, a two hundred fifty
dollar ($250.00) surcharge will be issued for a second offense violation and a
five hundred dollar ($500.00) surcharge and/or possible termination of water
service will be issued for third and subsequent violations.
      (4)   No additional tap-ons during the state of emergency.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87; Am. Ord. 5-1999, passed 7-30-99; Am. Ord. 6-1999,
passed 7-30-99)
§ 52.18 HOSPITALS AND HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Hospitals and health care facilities shall comply with all
restrictions imposed on residential and nonresidential water customers as may
be applicable to each individual institution, to the extent compliance will not
endanger the health of the patients or residents of the institution.
   (B)   Each hospital or health care facility shall survey its water usage
patterns and requirements and implement such additional conservation measures
as may be possible without endangering the health of its patients or residents
to achieve a further reduction in the institution's water usage.
   (C)   The city will provide each hospital and health care facility with
suggested means to reduce usage levels. (See §
52.03)
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87)
§ 52.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Public Works Superintendent will have primary responsibility
for monitoring of compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   The following provisions shall govern the implementations of temporary
service interruptions:
      (1)   In order to effectuate compliance with this chapter, the city is
hereby authorized and required to plan and implement temporary service
interruptions to all or part of its water supply system, as may be deemed
appropriate, when any or all of the following conditions are determined to
exist:
         (a)   The mandated reduction in system-wide usage has not been
achieved;
         (b)   The mandated reduction in system-wide water usage has been
achieved, but has failed to have a significant impact in extending limited
water supplies; or
         (c)   Temporary service interruptions are necessary in order to
further extend limited or dwindling water supplies.
      (2)   In the event it is determined that temporary service interruptions
are necessary, the city shall notify its customers through the public media
(newspaper and radio) at least one day prior to the temporary service
interruptions, that a planned temporary service interruption is to be imposed.
Such notice shall:
         (a)   State the day or days when the planned temporary service
interruptions will occur;
         (b)   State the times when such planned temporary service
interruptions will commence, and the times such interruptions will cease;
         (c)   State whether the planned temporary service interruptions are to
be imposed on the entire system, or part thereof, and, if only parts of the
system will experience planned temporary service interruptions, and identify
geographic boundaries within which such interruptions will occur; and
         (d)   Advise all customers within the areas affected by planned
temporary service interruptions how to treat any water received from the
system, for human consumption, during the periods of such interruptions and for
such additional time as may be necessary until full pressure is restored to the
system.
      (3)   If a planned temporary service interruption is imposed as
authorized and required by this chapter, it must provide for the continued
delivery of water to health care facilities within the areas affected by such
interruptions, by means of any adequate alternative delivery measures that may
be necessary.
      (4)   If a planned temporary service interruption is implemented, it must
make a provision, by any means possible, for the continued delivery of such
water as may be necessary for the proper operation of sewage collection,
treatment, and disposal systems and facilities.
   (C)   Any residential or nonresidential water customer who exceeds the
allotments established pursuant to this water rationing will be subject to the
following excess use charges.
      (1)   Excess use charges will be collected based on the amount by which a
customer's use exceeds the water allotments established pursuant to the local
water rationing declaration, computed in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
Excess Usage Per Month                  Charge for Excess
First 1,000 gallons or portion thereof  $7 per 1,000 gallons or portion thereof
Each 1,000 gallons, or portion thereof,                   
thereafter
 
      (2)   Any moneys collected through excess use charges shall not be
accounted for as income, but shall be placed in a reserve account that is
dedicated to addressing water shortage problems and water conservation
initiatives.
   (D)   In addition to the excess use charge, noncompliance with the water
rationing provisions of this chapter will result in the following:
      (1)   For the first excess use, a warning of possible discontinuation
shall be issued to the customer.
      (2)   For the second or subsequent excess uses, service to the customer
may be interrupted or shut off for a period not to exceed 48 hours, or, if the
customer provides access, a flow restrictor may be installed in the customer's
service line for the duration of the emergency. The cost incurred to interrupt
or shut off and reinstate service, or to install and remove a flow restrictor,
shall be assessed to the water customer.
   (E)   Meter reading schedules are authorized to be altered to assure
adequate monitoring of compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   Any customer or other person aggrieved by a decision or action
imposing any excess use charge or other remedy for noncompliance with the
requirements of this chapter may proceed in accordance with the following
provisions:
      (1)   The city shall adopt procedures which provide an opportunity for
the customer or aggrieved party to rebut the finding of a violation, or provide
evidence of circumstances beyond the customer's control which resulted in the
violation. A record of evidence regarding disputed violations shall be kept,
and a written notice of the city's final decision and action in such cases
shall be provided to the customer or aggrieved party.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by the final decision or action of the city
may file a complaint with the City Council in accordance with the city's normal
administrative procedures.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-1987)
WATER USE RATIONING
§ 52.30 DECLARATION.
   Whenever the governing body of the city finds a need to provide for the
equitable distribution of critically-limited water supplies, in order to
balance demand and limited available supplies, and to assure that sufficient
water is available to preserve public health and safety, it shall be empowered
to declare by resolution the adoption of mandatory rationing.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87)
§ 52.31 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is imperative that water customers achieve an immediate further
reduction in water use in order to extend existing water supplies and, at the
same time, assure that sufficient water is available to preserve the public
health and sanitation and to provide fire protection service.
   (B)   The immediate further reduction in water usage is another step along a
continuum of responses to the present water supply shortage. Should shortages
continue, further reductions in usage may be required. It must be emphasized
that the additional usage reduction in the rationed area is a valid and
attainable goal reflective of the conditions which currently exist.
   (C)   The plan provides for equitable reductions in water usage and for
equal sacrifice on the part of each water customer. The success of this chapter
depends on the cooperation of all water customers in the emergency area.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 52.32 RESIDENTIAL USERS.
   (A)   Metered residential water customers and allotments:
      (1)   The water allotment for residential customers shall be calculated
by taking each customer's average water use over the preceding 12 months,
divided by the number of days in the 12-month period to yield the average daily
usage. Said average daily usage will be reduced by 50% for each residential
household.
      (2)   Residential water customers are required to provide city and
utility personnel with reasonable access to read meters as necessary to this
rationing declaration. Where access is not readily available, all reasonable
efforts to contact customers in order to arrange for access to read meters
shall be made. In the event a water customer does not allow entry to read the
meter after reasonable efforts to arrange for such access, the dwelling unit
(household) allotment will be reduced to 30 gallons per day.
      (3)   (a)   Where the residential water allotment provided under this
subchapter would create an extraordinary hardship, as in the case of special
health-related requirements, the water customer may apply to the city for an
exemption or variance from these requirements. If it is found that the
allotment provided in this section would impose an extraordinary hardship, a
revised allotment for the particular customer may be established.
         (b)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to such an exemption
or variance rendered by the city rendering water service beyond its corporate
limits, may file a complaint with the City Council in accordance with the
city's normal administrative procedures.
   (B)   For suggested conservation measures, see §
52.03.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.33 NONRESIDENTIAL WATER USERS.
   (A)   Nonresidential water customers shall further reduce their water usage
to 50% of use levels during the previous 12-month average as calculated by the
city from the past 12 months' water bills.
   (B)   It is the primary responsibility of each nonresidential water customer
to meet its mandated water use reduction goal in whatever manner possible.
   (C)   The city will establish a water allotment for each nonresidential
water customer, based upon a required further reduction of water usage from the
rate of water used by the customer during the past 12 months, or the last
recorded use level up to 12 months if no meter readings were recorded on the
customer for the full prior 12- month period.
   (D)   (1)   If the mandated further reduction in water usage cannot be
obtained without imposing extraordinary hardship which threatens health and
safety, the nonresidential customer may apply to the city for a variance, for
these purposes extraordinary hardship means a permanent damage to property or
economic loss which is substantially more severe than the sacrifices borne by
other water users subject to this subchapter. If the further reduction would
cause an extraordinary hardship or threaten health or safety, a variance may be
granted and a revised water use reduction requirement for the particular
customer may be established.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to such a variance
rendered by the city rendering water service beyond its corporate limits may
file a complaint with the City Council in accordance with the city's normal
administrative procedures.
   (E)   The city will provide each nonresidential customer suggested means to
reduce usage levels. (See §
52.03)
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-87)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, who fails to carry
out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this chapter, or who impedes or
interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this chapter shall
be subject to the following penalties.
   (A)   If the Mayor, Public Works Superintendent, or other city official
charged with implementation and enforcement of this chapter or a water supply
shortage resolution learns of any violation of any water use restriction
imposed pursuant to this chapter, a written notice of the violation shall be
affixed to the property where the violation occurred and mailed to the customer
of record and to any other person known to the city who is responsible for the
violation or its correction. Said notice shall describe the violation and order
that it be corrected, cured, or abated immediately or within such specified
time as the city determines is reasonable under the circumstances. If the order
is not complied with, the city may terminate water service to the customer
subject to the following procedures.
      (1)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail that, due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting
a hearing scheduled before the city official designated as a hearing officer by
the governing body;
      (2)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before termination
is ordered; and
      (3)   The hearing officer shall make findings of fact and order whether
service should continue or be terminated.
   (B)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (A). In the event of subsequent violations the
reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second violation and $300 for each
additional violation.
   (C)   Any customer may also be charged with violation of this chapter and
prosecuted in district court. Any person so charged and found guilty in
district court of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
The penalty for an initial violation shall be a mandatory fine of $100, which
may not be adjusted by the district court. In addition, such customer may be
required by the court to serve a definite term of confinement in the county
jail which shall be fixed by the court and which shall not exceed 30 days. The
penalty for a second violation shall be a mandatory fine of $200, which may not
be adjusted by the district court. In addition, such customer shall serve a
definite term of confinement in the county jail, which shall be fixed by the
court and which shall not exceed 30 days. Penalties for additional violations
shall be the same as the second violation.
(Ord. 5-1987, passed 5-4-1987)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Required obedience to traffic directions
   
70.03   Powers and duties of Police Department
   
70.04   Authority for enforcement
   
70.05   Temporary regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Signal legends
   
70.16   Establishment and maintenance of traffic-control devices
   
70.17   Obedience to signals
   
70.18   Interference with signals
   
70.19   Unauthorized signals or markings
   
70.20   Device to be legible and in proper position
   
70.21   Temporary disregard of devices by police officers
   
70.99   General penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.” Vehicles of the Fire Department or Police
Department, vehicles of the Commonwealth Attorney's office when on official
business, and ambulances on an authorized emergency run.
   “BOULEVARD.” Any legally designated street at which cross traffic is
required to stop before entering or crossing such boulevard.
   “BUSINESS DISTRICT.” Any portion of any street between two consecutive
intersections in which 50% or more of the frontage on either side of the street
is used for business purposes.
   “CROSSWALK.” That portion of the roadway included within the extension of
the sidewalk across any intersection, and such other portions of the roadway
between two intersections, as may be legally designated as crossing places and
marked by stanchions, paint lines, or otherwise.
   “CURB.” The boundary of that portion of the street used for vehicles whether
marked by curbstones or not.
   “FUNERAL PROCESSION.” Two (2) or more vehicles accompanying the body of a
deceased person when each vehicle has its headlights on or is displaying a
pennant attached in such a manner as to be clearly visible to approaching
traffic.
(KRS 189.378 (1))
   “INTERSECTION.” That part of the public way embraced within the extensions
of the street lines of two or more streets which join at an angle whether or
not one such street crosses the other.
   “OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.” All signs, signals, warnings,
directions, markings, and devices placed or erected or maintained by authority
of the Chief of Police.
   “ONE-WAY STREET.” A street on which vehicles are permitted to move in one
direction only.
   “OPERATOR.” Every person who is in actual physical control of the guidance,
starting, and stopping of a vehicle.
   “PARK.” When applied to vehicles, to leave a vehicle standing, whether
occupied or not, for a period of time longer than is necessary to receive or
discharge passengers or property.
   “PEDESTRIAN.” Any person afoot.
   “PLAY STREET.” Any street or portion thereof so designated by the Chief of
Police and reserved as a play area for children, from which all traffic is
barred, except vehicles to and from abutting properties.
   “POLICE DEPARTMENT.” The Police Department or other persons or agency
authorized to perform the duties of §
70.03 or any other acts necessary to implement and enforce this traffic code.
   “PUBLIC WAY.” The entire width between property lines of every way,
dedicated passway, or street set aside for public travel, except bridle paths
and foot paths.
   “REVERSE TURN.” To turn a vehicle on any street in such a manner as to
proceed in the opposite direction.
   “RIGHT-OF-WAY.” The privilege of the immediate and preferential use of the
street.
   “ROADWAY.” That portion of any street, improved, designated, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel.
   “SIDEWALK.” That portion of the street between the curb and the property
line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   “STOPPING.” As applied to vehicles, to stop a vehicle longer than is
actually necessary to receive or discharge passengers.
   “STREET.” Every public way, including alleys.
   “TRAFFIC.” Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, buses, and other
conveyances, individually or collectively, while using any street for the
purpose of travel.
   “VEHICLE.” Includes all agencies for the transportation of persons or
property over or upon the public highways of the Commonwealth and all vehicles
passing over or upon the highways.
      (1)   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes all vehicles, as defined above except, road
rollers; road graders; farm tractors; vehicles on which power shovels are
mounted; construction equipment customarily used only on the site of
construction and which is not practical for the transportation of persons or
property upon the highways; vehicles that travel exclusively upon rails;
vehicles propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires while being
operated within any municipality or where the vehicles do not travel more that
five (5) miles beyond the city limits of any municipality; vehicles propelled
by muscular power and electric low-speed scooters.
(KRS 189.010 (19))
§ 70.02 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with
any lawful order, signal, or direction given by a uniformed police officer, or
to fail or refuse to comply with any of the traffic regulations of this traffic
code.
   (B)   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any
vehicle owned or used in the service of the United States government, this
state, county, or city, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate
any of the provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in
this traffic code or by state statute.
   (C)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
on any roadway, and every person driving any animal on any roadway, and every
person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the provisions of
this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this traffic code which by their very nature can have no
application.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to direct all traffic in
conformance with this traffic code and to enforce the traffic regulations as
set forth in this traffic code, to make arrest for traffic violations, to
investigate accidents, and to cooperate with other officers of the city in the
administration of the traffic laws, and in developing ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   Authority to direct and enforce all traffic regulations of this city in
accordance with the provisions of this traffic code and to make arrests for
traffic violations is given to the Police Department, and, except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any other person to direct or attempt to
direct traffic by voice, hand, whistle, or any other signal.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   When required for the convenience and safety of the public and to alleviate
unusual traffic problems, the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
shall, at his discretion, have authority to impose such traffic regulations as
he may deem necessary for temporary periods not to exceed two weeks. If these
temporary regulations are necessary for a period longer than two weeks, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall be notified in writing of the extended order.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is regulated or controlled exclusively by a traffic-control
sign or signs exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting
different colored lights for purposes of traffic control, the following colors
only shall be used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and be obeyed as
follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. However, vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to
other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time
such signal is exhibited.
   (B)   Steady yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or
“Go” signal: Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter
the intersection. Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal may enter and
clear the intersection.
   (C)   Red alone or double red or “Stop”: Vehicular traffic facing the signal
shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such
other point as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall remain
standing until green or “Go” is shown alone.
   (D)   Flashing red alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line, and shall not again proceed
until it can do so without danger.
   (E)   Flashing amber alone: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall reduce
its speed and proceed cautiously across the intersection controlled by such
signal.
   (F)   “Yield Right-of-Way”: Vehicular traffic facing the “Yield Right-of-
Way” sign shall bear the primary responsibility of safely entering the primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. All traffic facing the sign shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles and pedestrians within such primary
intersecting or merging right-of-way. No vehicle facing a “Yield Right-of-Way”
sign shall enter the merging or intersecting right-of-way at a speed in excess
of 15 miles per hour, except that this speed limit shall not apply to vehicles
entering an expressway.
   (G)   Lane lights: When lane lights are installed over any street for the
purpose of controlling the direction of flow of traffic, vehicular traffic
shall move only in traffic lanes over which green arrows appear. However, when
flashing amber lights appear above a lane all left turns shall be made from
that lane. Where red arrows appear above such lanes, vehicles shall not move
against them. If flashing amber lights show above a lane, that lane shall be
used only for passing and for left turns unless a sign at such place prohibits
such turn.
Penalty, see § 70.99
                    
Statutory reference:
   Traffic-control signals, see KRS 189.338
§ 70.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The city shall establish and maintain all official traffic-control devices
necessary within the city. All traffic-control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic-control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.17 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic-control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the city, or any electric
signal, gate, or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for such
barrier or sign must be approved by the city.
   (B)   Such sign, signal, marking, or barrier shall have the same authority
as the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.18 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   No person shall without authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down, or remove any official control device or any railroad sign
or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any part
thereof.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.19 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device
which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic
device or railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the
movement of traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or
signal. No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit on any street, any traffic sign or signal bearing any commercial
advertising. Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any
public department or public utility of the city in any emergency or temporarily
from marking or erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been
approved by the city.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.20 DEVICE TO BE LEGIBLE AND IN PROPER POSITION.
   No provision of this traffic code for which signs or any other traffic-
control device is required shall be enforceable against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation the required device was not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
§ 70.21 TEMPORARY DISREGARD OF DEVICES BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   In an emergency any police officer may at his discretion disregard traffic-
control lights or signals or established regulations in order to facilitate the
movement of traffic.
§ 70.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this traffic code where no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than $20 nor more than $500.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.01   Obstructing traffic
   
71.02   Reverse or U turns
   
71.03   Backing vehicles
   
71.04   Vehicles crossing sidewalks
   
71.05   Speed limit on residential streets
Accidents
   
71.15   Duty of operator
   
71.16   Accident report
Prohibitions
   
71.25   Operator of vehicle to drive carefully
   
71.26   Right-of-way of emergency vehicles; following emergency vehicles;
driving over fire hose
   
71.27   Smoke emission or other nuisance
Funeral Processions
   
71.30   Funeral processions
Parades
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Permit required
   
71.42   Application for permit
   
71.43   Standards for issuance of permit
   
71.44   Notice of rejection of permit
   
71.45   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
71.46   Alternative permit
   
71.47   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
71.48   Contents of permit
   
71.49   Duties of permittee
   
71.50   Public conduct during parades
   
71.51   Revocation of permit
   
71.99   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.01 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or permit it to remain
standing in any street in such manner as to create an obstruction thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to enter any
intersection or crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of
the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle without obstructing
the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding the indication of
any traffic-control signal which may be located at the intersection or
crosswalk.
   (C)   Any intersection deemed by the city to be of special or critical
importance to the movement of traffic shall be marked in a distinctive manner
in order to indicate its importance. Should the operator of any vehicle enter
any intersection so marked when there is insufficient room on the other side of
the intersection to accommodate the vehicle, the indication of any traffic-
control signal notwithstanding, he shall be deemed to have violated this
division rather than division (B) above.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.02 REVERSE OR U TURNS.
   The operator of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in safety without
interfering with other traffic.
(KRS 189.330(8))
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03 BACKING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to back the vehicle at
any intersection for the purpose of executing a turning movement. A vehicle
from any parking position shall be backed by the operator in such manner as to
proceed on the same side of the roadway in the lawful direction of travel.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.04 VEHICLES CROSSING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive within
any sidewalk space except at a permanent or temporary driveway or by special
permit from the Chief of Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to drive the
vehicle out of any alley, driveway, building, or lot and across a sidewalk, or
its extension across the alley, unless the vehicle has been brought to a
complete stop immediately prior to crossing the sidewalk or its extension. On
entering the roadway from the alley, driveway, or building the operator shall
yield the right-of- way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway. The
operator of any vehicle intending to cross a sidewalk and turn into an alley
from the roadway may do so at law speed and with caution.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMIT ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   The speed limit shall be reduced to 15 miles per hour on residential streets
within the city limits, with the exception of any state highways.
(Ord. 8-1992, passed 10-12-92)
ACCIDENTS
§ 71.15 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of, operator or, or passenger in any motor
vehicle which is involved in an accident in which any person is injured or
property damaged to stop immediately and ascertain the extent of the injury or
damage and render such assistance as may be needed.
Penalty, see § 71.99
                    
Statutory reference:
   Duty in case of accident, see KRS 189.580
§ 71.16 ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator, owner, or passenger involved in an accident resulting in the
injury or death of any person, or an accident in which property is damaged,
shall immediately report the accident or property damage to the Police
Department.
Penalty, see § 71.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.25 OPERATOR OF VEHICLE TO DRIVE CAREFULLY.
   (A)   The operator of any vehicle upon a highway shall operate the vehicle
in a careful manner, with regard for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
and other vehicles upon the highway.
   (B)   No person shall willfully operate any vehicle on any highway in such a
manner as to injure the highway.
(KRS 189.290)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES; FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES;
DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   Upon the approach of an emergency vehicle equipped with, and
operating, one or more flashing, rotating, or oscillating red or blue lights
visible under normal conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
such vehicle; or when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-
way, immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the edge or curb of the highway clear of any intersection, and stop and remain
in such position until the emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer or firefighter.
   (B)   Upon the approach of any emergency vehicle operated in conformity with
the provisions of division (A) above, the operator of every vehicle shall
immediately stop clear of any intersection and shall keep such position until
the emergency vehicle has passed, unless directed otherwise by a police officer
or firefighter.
   (C)   No operator of any vehicle, unless he is on official business, shall
follow any emergency vehicle being operated in conformity with the provisions
of division (A) above closer than 500 feet, nor shall he drive into, park the
vehicle into, or park the vehicle within the block where the vehicle has
stopped in answer to an emergency call or alarm, unless he is directed
otherwise by a police officer or firefighter.
   (D)   No vehicle, train, or other equipment shall be driven over any
unprotected hose of a fire department when the hose is laid down on any street,
private driveway, or track for use at any fire of fire alarm unless the fire
department official in command consents that the hose be driven over.
   (E)   Upon approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or public safety
vehicle, when the emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle is giving a signal
by displaying alternately flashing yellow, red, red and white, red and blue, or
blue lights, a person who drives an approaching vehicle shall, while proceeding
with due caution:
      (1)   Yield the right-of-way by moving to a lane not adjacent to that of
the authorized emergency vehicle, if:
         (a)   The person is driving on a highway having at least four lanes
with not fewer than two lanes proceeding in the same direction as the
approaching vehicle; and
         (b)   If it is possible to make the lane change with due regard to
safety and traffic conditions; or
      (2)   Reduce the speed of the vehicle, maintaining a safe speed to road
conditions, if changing lanes would be impossible or unsafe.
   (F)   This section does not operate to relieve the person who drives an
emergency vehicle from the duty to operate the vehicle with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway.
(KRS 189.930)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.27 SMOKE EMISSION OR OTHER NUISANCE.
   Every vehicle when on a highway shall be so equipped as to make a minimum of
noise, smoke, or other nuisance, to protect the rights of other traffic, and to
promote the public safety.
(KRS 189.020)
Penalty, see § 71.99
FUNERAL PROCESSIONS
§ 71.30 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A vehicle in a funeral procession has the right-of-way at an
intersection and may proceed through the intersection if the procession is led
by an escort vehicle displaying flashing yellow, red, or blue lights, except:
      (1)   When the right-of-way is required by an emergency vehicle as
defined by KRS 189.910;
      (2)   When vehicles in the procession are directed otherwise by a police
or safety officer; or
      (3)   When the vehicle is a train or locomotive.
   (B)   Before assuming the right-of-way, a person who drives a vehicle in a
funeral procession shall exercise due caution with regard to crossing traffic.
   (C)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not drive the vehicle between the vehicles of the funeral procession or
otherwise interfere with the progress of the procession, except when:
      (1)   The person is authorized to do so by a police or safety officer; or
      (2)   The vehicle is an emergency vehicle as defined by KRS 189.910.
   (D)   A person who drives a vehicle that is not part of a funeral procession
shall not illuminate the vehicle headlights or engage in any other act for the
purpose of securing the right-of-way granted to funeral processions.
   (E)   The escort vehicle, hearse, or vehicles in a procession may be
equipped with flashing amber lights for the purpose of notifying the general
public of the procession and gaining the right-of-way at intersections, or
signaling the end of a procession.
   (F)   Persons authorized to use flashing lights as defined in KRS 189.920
may use them while accompanying a funeral procession to warn traffic that a
procession is approaching or that it is in progress.
   (G)   When a funeral procession is in progress, a person driving a vehicle
not in the procession shall not pass or overtake any vehicle in the procession
unless:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a police or safety officer;
      (2)   The procession is on a street, road, or highway outside the
corporate limits of a city, town, or urban-county; or
      (3)   The procession is on an interstate highway or a state parkway.
(KRS 189.378)
Penalty, see § 71.99(C)
PARADES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “CRUISING.” The repeated operation of two or more vehicles in a continuous
or nearly continuous flow through a parking lot.
   “PARADE.” Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city, or “CRUISING” as defined herein.
   “PARADE PERMIT.” A permit required by this subchapter.
   “PARKING LOT.” Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire as defined in KRS 189.700.
§ 71.41 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the Chief of
Police or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, providing the conduct is under the immediate direction
and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.42 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police or other authorized city official on forms provided by such
officer.
   (A)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than five days or not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade.
   (B)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park, or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any such assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should issue.
   (C)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount as established by the City Council.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.43 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall issue a permit
when, from a consideration of the application and from other information
obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
city other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and areas
contiguous thereto;
   (D)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of fire
fighting equipment enroute to a fire;
   (F)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays enroute;
   (G)   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, goods, or event, and is not designated to be held purely for private
profit;
   (H)   The parade, if it takes the form of cruising, has the approval in
writing of the owner or an authorized agent of the owner for the use of the
parking lot which is the site of the parade.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.44 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall act on the
application for a parade permit within three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after filing thereof. If he disapproves the application, he
shall mail to the applicant within the three days, Saturdays, Sundays, and
holidays excepted, after the date on which the application was filed, a notice
of his action stating the reasons for his denial of the permit.
§ 71.45 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 71.46 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official, in denying an
application for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of
the parade on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by
the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall conform to
the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit under this
subchapter.
§ 71.47 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The City Attorney;
   (C)   The Fire Chief;
   (D)   The general manager or responsible head of each public utility, the
regular routes of whose vehicles will be affected by the route of the proposed
parade.
§ 71.48 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park, or other public place to
be traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Such other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement
of this subchapter.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.49 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairman or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his
person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.50 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede,
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle, or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
Penalty, see § 71.99.
                
Cross-reference:
   Parking on parade routes, see §
72.07
§ 71.51 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
penalty is specifically provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   (B)   Any person who violates §
71.26 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than sixty
dollars ($60.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or be imprisoned
in the county jail for not more than thirty days, or both.
(KRS 189.993 (8))
   (C)   Any person who violates §
71.30 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $250 or
imprisoned for not more than ninety (90) days, or both.
(KRS 189.378)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Generally
   
72.01   Obstructional parking; double parking
   
72.02   Manner of parking
   
72.03   Limitations of stopping and parking
   
72.04   Restrictions and prohibitions on designated streets
   
72.05   Parking restricted to allow street cleaning
   
72.06   Parking in excess of certain number of hours prohibited; towing
authorized
   
72.07   Parking on parade route
   
72.08   Parking on off-street facility
   
72.09   Owner responsibility
   
72.10   Parking in parks
   
72.11   Display of parked vehicle for sale
   
72.12   Parking with permits for persons with disabilities
   
72.13   Parking of oversize motor vehicles prohibited
   
72.14   Reserved parking permits
Impounding
   
72.20   Impoundment of vehicles authorized; redemption
   
72.21   Lien on motor vehicles and contents; forfeiture and sale of contents;
limitation of liability
Snow Emergency
   
72.35   Announcement of snow emergency
   
72.36   Termination of emergency
   
72.37   Snow emergency routes
   
72.98   Enforcement of parking and meter regulations
   
72.99   Penalty
                    
Statutory reference:
   Revenues from fees, fines, and forfeitures related to parking, see KRS
65.120
PARKING GENERALLY
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTIONAL PARKING; DOUBLE PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any vehicle or any other
thing that may be a nuisance, obstruction, or hindrance in or on any street,
alley, or sidewalk within the city either during the day or night.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park any vehicle on the
roadway side of any other vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.02 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park
the vehicle in a manner other than with its right-hand side toward and parallel
with the curb, except that where parking is permitted on the left side of a
one-way street, the left-hand side shall be so parked, and except for
commercial loading and unloading on one-way streets.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any street unless its
two right wheels are within six inches of and parallel with the curb, except
that on one-way streets where parking is permitted on the left side the two
left wheels are to be within six inches of and parallel with the curb.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb on any street, except that
wagons and trucks may do so when loading and unloading provided that such
loading and unloading and delivery of property and material shall not consume
more than 30 minutes. Such backing of trucks or wagons is prohibited at all
times and on all streets in the city where any truck or wagon so backed
interferes with the use of the roadway of moving vehicles or occupies road
space within ten feet of the center line of the street.
   (D)   The city may establish diagonal parking at certain places, requiring
the parking of vehicles at a certain angle to the curb and within a certain
portion of the roadway adjacent thereto. However, diagonal parking shall not be
established where the roadway space required therefor would be within ten feet
of the center line of any street. Such diagonal parking places shall be
designated by suitable signs, and shall indicate by markings on the pavement
the required angle and the width of the roadway space within which such vehicle
shall park.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to so park such
vehicle that any part thereof shall extend beyond the lines marking the side or
the rear of the space assigned for one vehicle.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 LIMITATIONS OF STOPPING AND PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop or park such
vehicle except in a case of real emergency or in compliance with the provisions
of this traffic code or when directed by a police officer or traffic sign or
signal at any time in the following places:
   (A)   On the mainly-traveled portion of any roadway or on any other place in
the roadway where vehicles stand in any manner other than as specified in §
72.02.
   (B)   On a sidewalk.
   (C)   In front of sidewalk ramps provided for persons with disabilities.
   (D)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (E)   Within an intersection or crosswalk.
   (F)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking. This
does not apply to police officers when operating properly identified vehicles
during the performance of their official duties.
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or
traffic-control signal located at the side of the a roadway.
   (H)   On any controlled access highway.
   (I)   Within a highway tunnel.
   (J)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant.
   (K)   In an area between the roadways of a divided highway.
   (L)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area.
(KRS 189.450 (4) - (6))
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the stopping and parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The provision of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from his duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping or parking of vehicles in
specific places or at specified times.
   (C)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time on
any street so marked by official signs.
   (D)   When a curb has been painted in compliance with the provisions of
division (F) below, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at or adjacent
to any curb so marked.
   (E)   When signs are erected in compliance with the provisions of division
(F) below, in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified by official signs on any day except Sundays on any
street so marked.
   (F)   (1)   The city shall determine on what streets or portions thereof
stopping or parking shall be restricted or prohibited. Whenever under authority
of or by this traffic code or any other ordinance any parking limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, or parking areas are restricted
to parking for persons with disabilities appropriate signs shall be erected
giving notice thereof. However, in lieu of erecting such signs or in
conjunction therewith, the face and top of a curb or curbs at or adjacent to
which parking is prohibited at all times may be painted a solid yellow color.
      (2)   No such regulations or restrictions shall be effective unless the
signs have been erected and are in place or the curbs are painted yellow at the
time of any alleged offense, except in the case of those parking restrictions
which by their very nature would not require such signs and markings.
   (G)   When signs are erected in compliance with division (F) above in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for a time longer
than specified on official signs any day except Sunday and on any street so
marked.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING RESTRICTED TO ALLOW STREET CLEANING.
   The city is authorized to designate street cleaning areas and shall provide
suitable signs and markings on the street to be cleaned, restricting parking on
that particular day. It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
stop on any street so designated.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 PARKING IN EXCESS OF CERTAIN NUMBER OR HOURS PROHIBITED; TOWING
AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park in any one place any vehicle on any
of the public ways or streets of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer.
Any vehicle left parked in any one place on any of the public ways or streets
of the city for a period of 24 hours or longer shall be deemed abandoned, and
shall be subject to all existing regulations of the city pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles.
Penalty, see § 72.99
                
Cross-reference:
   Removal of abandoned vehicles, see §§
72.20 et seq.
§ 72.07 PARKING ON PARADE ROUTE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall have the
authority, whenever in his judgment it is necessary, to prohibit or restrict
the parking of vehicles along a street or part thereof constituting a part of
the route of a parade or procession, to erect temporary traffic signs to that
effect, and to prohibit and prevent such parking.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park or leave unattended any vehicle in
violation of such signs or directions.
Penalty, see § 72.99
                
Cross-reference:
   Parades, see §§
71.40 through
71.51
§ 72.08 PARKING ON OFF-STREET FACILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to park or
abandon the vehicle or drive on or otherwise trespass on another's property, or
on an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without the consent of
the owner, lessee, or person in charge of any such property or facility.
   (B)   If at any time a vehicle is parked, abandoned, or otherwise trespasses
in violation of the provisions of division (A) of this section, the owner,
lessee, or person in charge of the property or facility may have the
unauthorized motor vehicle removed in accordance with the provisions of §§
72.20 through
72.22.
   (C)   Every property owner or operator of an off-street parking or parking
lot or facility is privately owned and that unauthorized vehicle will be
removed at the owner's expense before exercising the authority granted in
division (B).
Penalty, see § 72.99
                    
Statutory Reference:
   Removal of vehicles by owners of private parking lots; signs, see KRS
189.725
§ 72.09 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If any vehicle is found illegally parked in violation of any provisions of
this subchapter regulating stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles, and the
identity of the driver cannot be determined, the owner or person in whose name
the vehicle is registered shall be held prima facie responsible for the
violation.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.10 PARKING IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle in or on any
section of any public park, playground, play lot, or tot lot within the city
not designed as a parking area or designed and regularly maintained as a
roadway. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed as
prohibiting the parking of a motor vehicle parallel to a designated and
regularly maintained roadway in any such park or playground where at least two
wheels of the motor vehicle are resting on such roadway.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.11 DISPLAY OF PARKED VEHICLE FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle displayed for sale or a motor
vehicle on which demonstrations are being made on any street.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.12 PARKING WITH PERMITS FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Any other provision to the contrary notwithstanding, a motor vehicle
bearing a decal in its front windshield issued by the County Clerk pursuant to
appropriate county ordinances for persons with disabilities, when operated by a
person with disabilities or when transporting a person with disabilities, may
be parked in a designated disabled parking place, or when parked in a metered
parking space may be parked for two hours for no fee, or when parked where any
parking limit is imposed may be parked for two hours in excess of the parking
limit. The motor vehicle may be parked in a loading zone for that period of
time necessary to permit entrance or exit of the person with disabilities to or
from the parked vehicle, but in no circumstances longer than 30 minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not permit parking in a “no stopping” or “no
parking” zone nor where parking is prohibited for the purpose of creating a
fire lane or to accommodate heavy traffic during morning, afternoon, or evening
hours, nor permit a motor vehicle to be parked in such a manner as to
constitute a traffic hazard.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.13 PARKING OF OVERSIZE MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to park or leave
parked any motor truck or motorized construction equipment larger than a pickup
truck upon any of the public streets or alleys of the city at any time except
in case of an emergency, or for loading or unloading, such loading or unloading
to be done wihin reasonable time limits.
(Ord. 1979(a), passed 4-2-79)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.14 RESERVED PARKING PERMITS.
   Reserved parking spaces may be authorized upon application and approval to
the City Council. Reserved parking space charge shall be $15 per space per
month. Payment must be in advance of reservation. For reserved parking the city
shall, at the expense of the holder, furnish a sign or other appropriate
marking designating the space reserved.
(Ord. 540.1, passed 6-4-84; Am. Ord. 2-1987, passed 3-2-87)
Penalty, see § 72.99
IMPOUNDING
§ 72.20 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES AUTHORIZED; REDEMPTION.
   (A)   All police officers are empowered to authorize the impoundment of a
vehicle violating vehicle-related ordinances after a citation has been issued.
   (B)   A vehicle slated for impoundment will be tagged and placed under
control of the Police Department. Should a vehicle be moved without the consent
and approval of the Police Department a warrant shall be issued immediately for
the violator's arrest.
   (C)   All fines, fees, and charges must be paid in full before a release of
impoundment can be issued for the vehicle's release.
§ 72.21 LIEN ON MOTOR VEHICLES AND CONTENTS; FORFEITURE AND SALE OF CONTENTS;
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person engaged in the business of storing or towing motor
vehicles, who has complied with the notification requirements of KRS 281.928,
shall have a lien on the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
subsection (B) of this section, for the applicable and reasonable charges
assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 291.932, as long as it remains in
his or her possession.
      (2)   If, after a period of forty-five (45) days, the applicable and
reasonable charges assessed in accordance with KRS 281.926 and 281.932 have not
been paid, the motor vehicle and its contents, except as set forth in
subsection (B) of this section, may be sold to pay the charges after the owner
and any lienholder have been notified by certified mail at the addresses
specified in KRS 281.928(1), ten (10) days prior to the time and place of the
sale. If the proceeds of the sale of any vehicle pursuant to this section are
insufficient to satisfy accrued charges, the sale and collection of proceeds
shall not constitute a waiver or release of responsibility for payment of
unpaid charges by the owner or responsible casualty insurer of the vehicle. A
lien on a vehicle under this subsection shall be subject to prior recorded
liens, unless released by any existing lienholder pursuant to paragraph (3) of
this subsection.
      (3)   A lienholder having a prior recorded lien listed on the title
issued by the Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be notified by certified mail
within the first ten (10) days of impoundment in accordance with KRS 281.928.
Such notification, in addition to the requirements of KRS 281.928 shall include
the make, model, license number, vehicle identification number, owner's name
and last known address, and tentative date of sale for the vehicle, and state
that the towing company or storage facility seeks to obtain a new title free
and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens. If the above-referenced certified
letter is not sent within the ten (10) days by the towing and storage company,
then only ten (10) days of storage may be charged. The lienholder has the right
to take possession of the motor vehicle after showing proof of lien still
enforced, and paying the reasonable or agreed towing and storage charges on the
motor vehicle. If a lienholder does not exercise the right to take possession
of the motor vehicle under this paragraph within forty-five (45) days of
notification, and all lienholders agree in writing, the towing company or
storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145 free and clear of
any liens, excluding tax liens. Nothing in this section shall allow the
transfer of a vehicle subject to a lien, except as provided in KRS 186A.190.
      (4)   If there are no lienholders required to be notified under KRS
281.920 to 281.936 and 359.230 and this section, and the owner does not
exercise the right to take possession of the motor vehicle under this section
within forty-five (45) days of notification required under KRS 281.928, the
towing company or storage facility may obtain a new title under KRS 186A.145
free and clear of any liens, excluding tax liens.
   (B)   Subsection (A) of this section shall not apply to the following
contents of a motor vehicle, which shall be released to the vehicle owner or
the owner's designated agent upon request, if the request is made within forty-
five (45) days of the date the vehicle was towed:
      (1)   Prescription medication in its proper container;
      (2)   Personal medical supplies and equipment or records;
      (3)   Educational materials, including but not limited to calculators,
books, papers, and school supplies;
      (4)   Documents, files, electronic devices, or equipment which may be
able to store personal information or information relating to a person's
employment or business;
      (5)   Firearms and ammunition. Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection (C) of this section, firearms and ammunition which are not claimed
by the owner of the vehicle within forty-five (45) days of the date the vehicle
was towed shall be transferred to the Department of Kentucky State Police for
disposition as provided by KRS 16.220;
      (6)   Cargo in the possession of persons engaged in transportation in
interstate commerce as registered under KRS 186.020;
      (7)   Cargo in the possession of an integrated intermodal small package
carrier as defined by KRS 281.605(12);
      (8)   Child restraint systems or child booster seats; and
      (9)   Checks, checkbooks, debit or credit cards, money orders, stocks, or
bonds.
   (C)   Except as provided in subsection (B)(5) of this section, any contents
exempted under subsection (B)(3), (4), (6), and (7) of this section that are
not claimed by the owner of the vehicle within forty-five (45) days of the date
the vehicle was towed may be sold or otherwise legally disposed of by the
storage or towing company. Any contents exempted under subsection (B)(1), (2),
(8), and (9) of this section that are not claimed by the owner of the vehicle
within forty-five (45) days of the date the vehicle was towed shall not be
sold, but shall be otherwise legally disposed of by the storage or towing
company.
   (D)   The storage or towing company shall not be responsible for contents in
a vehicle's trunk or other locked compartment to which the storage or towing
company is without access, unless the towing company intentionally opens the
area without the owner's consent.
   (E)   This section shall not apply when a local government causes a vehicle
to be towed pursuant to KRS 82.605 to 82.640 or if state government causes a
vehicle to be towed.
(KRS 376.275)
SNOW EMERGENCY
§ 72.35 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official finds that
falling snow, sleet, or freezing rain will create a condition which makes it
necessary that the parking of motor vehicles on snow emergency routes be
prohibited, or whenever he finds on the basis of a firm forecast of snow,
sleet, or freezing rain that the weather conditions so forecasted may create a
condition making it necessary that such parking be prohibited, he is authorized
to announce such prohibition, to become effective at a time specified by him.
After the effective time of such prohibition no person shall park any vehicle
or permit any vehicle to remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a
fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00
a.m., and the Chief of Police or other authorized city official has not
announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency routes is to be
prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow emergency route
may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The prohibition of
parking announced by the Chief of Police or other authorized city official
under the authority of this section shall remain in effect until he announces
the termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.36 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chief of Police or other authorized city official shall find
that some or all of the conditions which gave rise to the snow emergency
prohibition no longer exist, he is authorized to declare the termination of the
emergency, in part or in whole, effective immed-iately on announcement. If such
announcement is made other than between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be
repeated between those hours.
§ 72.37 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term “SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE” shall mean any route designated by the Chief
of Police or other authorized city official. On such street or highway
designated as a snow emergency route, special signs shall be posted to this
effect.
§ 72.98 ENFORCEMENT OF PARKING AND METER REGULATIONS.
   The city shall enforce legal parking within the city limits and shall
enforce parking and meter violations. Parking violations shall be enforced
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday. All
other violations shall be enforced 24 hours a day.
(Ord. 2-1987, passed 3-2-87; Am. Ord. 14-1988, passed 10-20-88)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The following violations and monetary fines shall be enforced:
Violations                    24 Hours If Paid Within 72 Hours
Expired time on parking meter $2       $5
Two-hour zones                3        5
Double parked                 4        6
Blocking alley                4        6
Fire hydrant                  6        10
No parking zone               4        6
Official signs                4        6
Parking in Handicapped Zone   20       20
 
      (2)   If fine is not paid within two weeks, violators will be summoned to
appear in District Court. All court costs shall be paid by the violator.
(Ord. 540.1, passed 6-4-84; Am. Ord. 2-1987, passed 3-2-87; Am. Ord. 5-2002,
passed 9-19-02; Am. Ord. 9-2003, passed 5-12-03)
   (B)   All parking violations are payable to the Police Department.
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Operation of bicycles
   
73.02   Operation of motorcycles and motorscooters
   
73.03   Skating and coasting
   
73.04   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.99   Penalty
                
Cross-reference:
   Required obedience to traffic directions, see §
70.02(C)
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle on the sidewalks of the city.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle on any section of a public park,
playground, play lot, or tot lot, except on a roadway or in a parking area.
   (C)   No operator of any bicycle shall carry another person on such bicycle.
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES AND MOTORSCOOTERS.
   (A)   No operator of any motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall carry another person except on a seat attached thereto or in a side car
attached to the vehicle.
   (B)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any public park, except on a roadway or in a
parking area.
   (C)   No operator of a motorcycle, motorscooter, or power-driven bicycle
shall operate such vehicle in any play lot or tot lot.
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.03 SKATING AND COASTING.
   Except on streets which may be declared from time to time as “play streets”
by the city and protected by barriers or official signs, it shall be unlawful
for any person on skates, skateboards or riding on a coaster sled or toy
vehicle of any kind, to go on any roadway except at a crosswalk.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 6-11-07)
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.04 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person while riding on a bicycle, coaster sled, roller skates, or
any toy vehicle shall cling to any moving vehicle on any street, or fasten or
attach the vehicle on which he is riding thereto.
   (B)   No person shall ride on the projection, running board, or fenders of
any vehicle.
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
73.03 of this chapter shall for the first violation receive a warning, and if a
minor, written notification sent to the parent or guardian; for the second
violation shall be deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined not
more than $50; and for the third violation shall be deemed to have committed a
violation and shall be fined no more than $150 and/or confiscation of the
skates, skateboard, coaster sled or toy vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates any other provision of this chapter shall be deemed
to have committed a violation and shall be fined not more than $50 for each
offense.
(Ord. 4-2007, passed 6-11-07)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Limited parking in metered spaces in business district
   
II.   Restricted parking in city business district
SCHEDULE I. LIMITED PARKING IN METERED SPACES IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays (Monday
through Saturday), all metered parking spaces on the streets within the city
hereinafter named shall be designated as for “shoppers only”, or customers or
consumers engaged in business transactions in the business section of the city
and for a time period not to exceed two hours:
 
Street        Location                           Ord. No. Date Passed
Henry Street  From Oberlin Avenue to North Court 540.2    6-4-84
Main Street   From Henry Street to Brooks Avenue 540.2    6-4-84
North Court                                      540.2    6-4-84
South Court                                      540.2    6-4-84
Vimont Avenue                                    540.2    6-4-84
 
   (B)   Parking permits secured from the city will be valid for free parking
at any metered parking space within the city, except on the streets listed
above.
   (C)   Persons employed or working in the downtown area shall be restricted
from parking in the designated “shoppers only” areas.
   (D)   Exceptions to the restrictions in this schedule will be made for those
persons whose residences are located immediately in the restricted areas.
(Ord. 540.2, passed 6-4-84)
Penalty, see § 72.99
SCHEDULE II: RESTRICTED PARKING IN CITY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on weekdays (Monday
through Saturday) all parking spaces on the streets within the city hereinafter
named will be designated as “Business District, Two (2) Hour Free Parking,
Shoppers Only”, or customers or consumers engaged in business transactions in
the business section of the city and for a time period not to exceed two hours:
 
Street         Location                            Ord. No. Date Passed
Henry Street   From Oberline Avenue to North Court 15-1988  10-3-88
Main Street    From Henry Street to Brooks Avenue  15-1988  10-3-88
North Court                                        15-1988  10-3-88
South Court                                        15-1988  10-3-88
Vinmont Avenue                                     15-1988  10-3-88
 
   (B)   Persons employed or working in the downtown area shall be restricted
from parking in the designated “Business District, Two (2) Hour Free Parking,
Shoppers Only”, areas.
   (C)   Residential parking permits.
      (1)   Parking permits or reserved parking spaces will no longer be issued
within the city business district (as set forth in division (a) above).
      (2)   Residents residing on any of the above listed streets will be
allowed one free parking space for one vehicle only. The resident is to obtain
the one free “residential parking permit” from the Police Department and mount
that permit on such vehicle.
      (3)   If the vehicle with the above mentioned permit mounted is dispensed
of by the owner, then the owner is required to obtain another “residential
parking permit” as soon as the vehicle is replaced, and so forth.
      (4)   Any other vehicle that a resident may own will not be allowed to
park in the one free parking space. If the resident violates this provision,
the vehicle may be towed at the owner's expense; as may any vehicle parked in
violation of any part of this schedule.
(Ord. 15-1988, passed 10-3-88)
Penalty, see § 72.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
      
96.   IDENTITY THEFT POLICY
      
97.   ALARMS
      
98.   SYNTHETIC DRUGS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animals running at large
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals in the second degree
   
90.04   Dyeing or selling dyed chicks or rabbits
   
90.05   Abandoning domestic animals prohibited
   
90.06   Destruction of abandoned and suffering animal
Dogs
   
90.15   Definition
   
90.16   Dogs running at large
   
90.17   Noise disturbance
   
90.18   Impoundment
   
90.19   Reclaiming impounded dog
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ABANDON." Shall constitute the relinquishment of all rights and claims by
the owner to the animal.
(KRS 257.100 (4))
   "AT LARGE." Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or his agent either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   "OWNER." Every person having a right of property to an animal and every
person who keeps or harbors an animal, has it in his care, or permits it to
remain on or about the premises owned or occupied by him.
§ 90.02 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner of any animal shall permit it to run at
large in any public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon unenclosed
land, or permit it to go on any private yard, lot, or enclosure without the
consent of the owner of the yard, lot, or enclosure.
   (B)   The owner of an animal who permits it to run at large in violation of
this section is liable for all damages caused by such animal upon the premises
of another.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of cruelty to animals in the second degree when
except as authorized by law he intentionally or wantonly:
      (1)   Subjects any animal to or causes cruel or injurious mistreatment
through abandonment, participates other than as provided in §
90.03 in causing it to fight for pleasure or profit, (including, but not
limited to being a spectator or vendor at an event where a four legged animal
is caused to fight for pleasure or profit) mutilation, beating, torturing,
tormenting any animal other than a dog or cat, failing to provide adequate
food, drink, space, or health care, or by any other means;
      (2)   Subjects any animal in his custody to cruel neglect; or
      (3)   Kills any animal other than a domestic animal killed by poisoning.
This section shall not apply to intentional poisoning of a dog or cat.
Intentional poisoning of a dog or cat shall constitute a violation of this
section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall apply to the killing of animals:
      (1)   Pursuant to a license to hunt, fish, or trap;
      (2)   Incident to the processing as food or for other commercial
purposes;
      (3)   For humane purposes;
      (4)   For veterinary, agricultural, spaying or neutering, or cosmetic
purposes;
      (5)   For purposes relating to sporting activities, including but not
limited to horse racing at organized races and training for organized races,
organized horse shows, or other animal shows;
      (6)   For bona fide animal research activities of institutions of higher
education; or a business entity registered with U.S. Department of Agriculture
under the Animal Welfare Act or subject to other federal laws governing animal
research;
      (7)   In defense of self or another person against an aggressive or
diseased animal;
      (8)   In defense of a domestic animal against an aggressive or diseased
animal;
      (9)   For animal or pest control; or
      (10)   For any other purpose authorized by law.
(KRS 525.130)
Penalty, see § 90.99
                    
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals in the first degree, a class D felony, see KRS 525.125
§ 90.04 DYEING OR SELLING DYED CHICKS OR RABBITS.
   No person shall sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange, display or
possess living baby chicks, ducklings, or other fowl or rabbits which have been
dyed or colored; nor dye or color any baby chicks, ducklings or other fowl or
rabbits; nor sell, exchange, offer to sell or exchange or to give away baby
chicks, ducklings or other fowl or rabbits, under two months of age in any
quantity less than six, except that any rabbit weighing three pounds or more
may be sold at an age of six weeks.
(KRS 436.600)
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.05 ABANDONING DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No owner of a domestic animal shall abandon the animal.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.06 DESTRUCTION OF ABANDONED AND SUFFERING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any peace officer, animal control officer, or any person authorized by
the Board may destroy or kill or cause to be destroyed or killed, any animal
found abandoned and suffering and not properly cared for, or appearing to be
injured, diseased, or suffering past recovery for any useful purpose.
   (B)   Before destroying the animal the officer shall obtain the judgment to
that effect of a veterinarian, or of two reputable citizens called by him to
view the animal in his presence, or shall obtain consent to the destruction
from the owner of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   Any animal placed in the custody of a licensed veterinarian for
treatment, boarding, or other care, which shall be unclaimed by its owner or
his agent for a period of more than ten days after written notice by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, is given the owner or his agent at
his last known address, shall be deemed to be abandoned and may be turned over
to the nearest humane society, or animal shelter or disposed of as the
custodian may deem proper.
      (2)   The giving of notice to the owner, or the agent of the owner of
such animal by the licensed veterinarian shall relieve the licensed
veterinarian and any custodian to whom the animal may be given of any further
liability for disposal.
(KRS 257.100)
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "DOG." Any member of the canine family.
§ 90.16 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog, either licensed or
unlicensed, regardless of the age of the dog, to allow the dog to be at large
and unattended or to run in any street, park, lawn, garden, schoolyard,
playground, or on any other public or private property.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.17 NOISE DISTURBANCE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog within the city which, by frequent
and habitual barking, howling, or yelping, creates unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises of such a character, intensity, and duration as to disturb
the peace, quiet, and good order of one or more of the inhabitants of two or
more separate residences. Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to
remain, be lodged, or fed within any dwelling, yard, or enclosure which he
occupies or owns shall be considered as harboring the dog.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.18 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every police officer, peace officer, or other authorized official shall have
the authority to apprehend any dog running at large in violation of this
chapter, and to impound such dog or have such dog impounded in the appropriate
place.
§ 90.19 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   The owner of any dog so impounded may reclaim the dog upon the payment of
all appropriate fees and after fulfilling any and all other requirements.
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not already otherwise provided shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day
the violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
90.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500,
imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both for each offense.
(KRS 525.130)
   (C)   Any person who violates §
90.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $500.
(KRS 436.600)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
91.01   Opening permit required
   
91.02   Application and cash deposit
   
91.03   Restoration of pavement
   
91.04   Barriers around excavations
   
91.05   Warning lights
   
91.06   Sidewalk construction, improvement, and repair
Private Owned Streets and Curbs
   
91.10   Curb ramping for the disabled and elderly
   
91.11   Guidelines for acceptance of privately owned streets/ roadways and
easements
   
91.12   Creation and installation of speed bumps on city streets
Road and Bridge Projects
   
91.15   Public hearing required
   
91.16   Notice requirements
   
91.17   Public may testify; effect of testimony
   
91.18   Hearing to be held prior to construction
   
91.19   Separate hearing for each project not required
   
91.20   Exemptions from hearing requirement
Obstructions
   
91.30   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
91.31   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
91.32   Materials on street or sidewalk
   
91.33   Removal of ice and snow
Posted Addresses
   
91.40   911 Addresses
 
   
91.99   Penalty
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 91.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized city official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public way of the city
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized city official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the legislative body, giving the exact location of the
proposed opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and
such other facts as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after
a cash deposit sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with
the authorized city official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory
refilling of excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 91.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized city
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations, and specifications
approved by the legislative body.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface, and remove all excess materials within the
time specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a
reasonable time after commencement of the work, the city may proceed without
notice to make such fill and restoration and the deposit referred to in §
91.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate city fund, except such part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the city for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of such services performed by the city
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 91.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times toprevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at, or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION, IMPROVEMENT, AND REPAIR.
   It is hereby made the duty of each and every owner of lots of real property
fronting or abutting any public way in the city, to construct and improve the
public sidewalk or public sidewalks along, adjacent and in front of his, her,
their or its property upon receiving a written request to do so from the Mayor
of the city, describing the necessary construction, reconstruction, or
improvement of that public sidewalk or sidewalks. The construction,
reconstruction, and improvement of the public sidewalk is to be made at the
expense of the abutting property owner.
      (1)   Written notice shall be mailed by the Mayor to that abutting
property owner by certified letter with a return receipt requested. Upon the
failure of the property owners within 30 days after the mailing of the written
notice to so begin the construction, reconstruction, or improvement of the
public sidewalk or sidewalks in fronting or abutting his, her, their or its
property, or upon the failure of the property owner to use reasonable diligence
in the completing of the construction, reconstruction, or improvement of that
public sidewalk or sidewalks, the city shall have the privilege of
constructing, reconstructing, or improving the public sidewalk or sidewalks
according to the provisions of the statutory law then in effect in this state
regulating such construction, reconstruction, or improvement by the city, at
the expense of the abutting property owner. Upon completion and acceptance of
the construction, reconstruction, or improvement of that public sidewalk or
sidewalks by the city, the abutting property owner shall be billed by the city
for the cost of the construction, reconstruction, or improvement of the public
sidewalk or sidewalks which amount shall then be payable to the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
      (2)   If payment is not made by the abutting property owner within 30
days after it becomes due, there shall be added thereto a penalty of 10% and
that sum shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum from 30 days after it
becomes due until paid, and the city shall have a lien on the abutting real
estate for the cost of the construction, reconstruction, and improvement of the
public sidewalk or sidewalks, together with any penalty or interest that may
accrue thereon.
      (3)   In addition, the abutting property owner shall be subject to a fine
of $100 for his, her, their or its failure to construct, reconstruct, or
improve the public sidewalk or sidewalks fronting or abutting his, her, their
or its property after the notice required herein has been given.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of each and every owner of lots or real
estate fronting or abutting upon any public way in the city, to keep and
maintain the public sidewalk or sidewalks along, adjacent, and in front of his,
her, their or its property in good repair.
      (1)   Upon the failure of any abutting property owner to keep and
maintain the public sidewalk or sidewalks along, adjacent and in front of his,
her, their or its property, the abutting property owner shall be notified to
repair that public sidewalk or sidewalks by the Mayor of the city, and upon the
failure of the abutting property owner to repair the public sidewalk or
sidewalks within ten days after being so notified, the city shall have the
privilege of repairing the public sidewalk or sidewalks along, adjacent, and in
front of the abutting property at the expense of the abutting property owner.
      (2)   The city shall send to the abutting property owner a bill for the
expense incurred by the city in repairing that public sidewalk or sidewalks
upon the completion of the repair by the city, which sum shall be then payable
to the City Clerk/Treasurer, and if the sum is not paid by the abutting
property owner within 30 days after it becomes due there shall be added thereto
a penalty of 10% and sum shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum from
30 days after it becomes due until paid, and the city shall have a lien upon
the abutting real estate for the amount of expense incurred in making those
repairs together with any penalty or interest that may accrue thereon.
      (3)   In addition any owners of lots or real estate abutting or fronting
on any public way in the city, who fails to maintain and keep the public
sidewalk or sidewalks in front of, along, and adjacent to his, her, their, or
its property in good repair, with or without notice from the Mayor as provided
for herein, shall be fined as set forth in §
91.99 or a sum equal to any amount of money which the city should have to pay
as damages for injuries to any person, property or otherwise resulting from and
growing out of defects in the public sidewalk or sidewalks, together with all
costs or other expenses paid by the city in connection therewith, whichever is
greater.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 5-10-93)
Penalty, see § 91.99
PRIVATE OWNED STREETS AND CURBS
§ 91.10 CURB RAMPING FOR THE DISABLED AND ELDERLY.
   (A)   All new curbs and all existing curbs which are part of any
reconstruction, regardless of the location, shall comply with the provisions of
division (B) below.
   (B)   In order to enable persons using wheelchairs to travel freely and
without assistance at each crosswalk, a ramp with nonslip surface shall be
built into the curb so that the sidewalk and street blend to a common level.
The bottom of the ramp and the street shall meet. There shall be no lip
permitted at the ramp bottom. Such ramp shall not be less than 32 inches wide
and shall not have a slope greater than one inch rise per 12 inches in length,
where practicable.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 10-12-05)
§ 91.11 GUIDELINES FOR ACCEPTANCE OF PRIVATELY OWNED STREETS/ROADWAYS AND
EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to KRS 82.400, should any person desire to offer for
dedication by recorded plat any public way or easement within the city limits,
excluding those located in a subdivision (which are specified in the adopted
subdivision regulations) he or she shall file with the City Council a
recordable map or plat of the territory bounded, intersected, or immediately
adjacent to the proposed public way or easement, showing the proposed name,
nature and dimensions of the public way or easement offered for dedication. In
addition to the map or plat the following are required:
      (1)   All landowners of the street/roadway or easement must be willing to
execute a deed of conveyance to the city conveying the street/roadway or
easement and any and all land needed for turning purposes and maintenance
purposes.
      (2)   The proposed street/roadway or easement must meet all city
specifications as set forth in divisions (D) and (E), and be free and clear of
potholes and major repair needs. The owner/contractor must certify under oath
that the street/roadway has been privately maintained for a period of two years
and provide written certification from a qualified engineer that the street/
roadway meets all specifications required herein. Further any bridge structure
shall be certified by a duly qualified engineer to meet a minimum weight
standard of 20 tons.
      (3)   At least two landowners must benefit from the dedication of the
street/roadway and the acceptance by the city.
      (4)   The proposed street/roadway must have a minimum of one street light
in place for every 220 feet of street/roadway, unless waived by the City
Council.
   (B)   The request for acceptance must be in writing and addressed to the
City Council. Upon receipt, the City Council shall turn said documentation over
to the Building Inspector and Superintendent. The Building Inspector and
Superintendent shall review the plat, any information submitted as required and
the proposed street/roadway or easement. Thereafter the Building Inspector and
Superintendent shall make a recommendation to the City Council of the initial
cost to the city, the annual maintenance cost, and a recommendation as to
whether the dedication should or should not be accepted.
   (C)   If the City Council decides that the proposed dedication would be
beneficial to the public interest and suitable for the immediate or future
acceptance of the city, it shall approve the plat by ordinance and the Mayor
shall subscribe a certificate of approval on the plat and acknowledge the
execution thereof before any public officer authorized to take acknowledgments
of deeds. Thereafter, the landowners shall execute a deed of conveyance to the
city. The deed of conveyance and plat shall be recorded in the office of the
Bath County Clerk. The City Clerk shall maintain a listing of streets/roadways
or easements accepted.
   (D)   Specifications for new commercial streets/roadways:
      (1)   The sub grade for street/roadway shall be made from suitable
materials free from stumps, trees, vegetation, top soil, etc. Excavation and
backfill should be placed to conform to Kentucky Department of Transportation
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
      (2)   All streets/roadways shall have a minimum paved width of 22 linear
feet with a surface consisting of a ten inch compacted mat of crushed stone
base (DGA), four inch compacted mat of bituminous base asphalt, and two inch
compacted mat of bituminous surface. Bituminous tack coat shall be applied
between base, binder, and surface installation at a minimum of .15 gallon/
square yards. These requirements may be increased by the city depending on the
traffic flow expected on said street/roadway.
         (a)   All crushed stone base and asphalt paving used shall conform to
requirements contained in Kentucky Department of Transportation Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and shall be installed
according to said specifications.
         (b)   The owner(s)/contractor(s) are to certify that the material
meets Kentucky Department of Transportation Specifications upon final
inspection of roadway and prior to the city's acceptance of said roadway.
         (c)   The city may request weigh sheets and tickets to be supplied to
verify tonnage upon final inspection and prior to the city's acceptance of said
roadway. However, city shall waive the requirement for all streets/roadways in
existence but privately held at the time of the passage of this section,
provided the street/roadway has been in existence for a substantial number of
years and the weigh sheets and tickets are now unavailable.
      (3)   All streets/roadways shall have a two foot wide minimum shoulder.
If stone shoulders are required DGA stone shall have a compacted thickness of
five inches. This shoulder requirement may be waived by city if the street/
roadway adjoins paved or gravel areas, such as parking lots, and the like. In
those circumstances where the shoulder requirement is waived, city may impose
additional requirements such as stripping.
      (4)   All driveway entrances are to have paved a two foot wide entrance
apron and tile sized for proper drainage where drainage runs through driveway
(a minimum of 15 inches).
      (5)   Ditchline culverts must have 24 inches x 24 inches surface water
catch basins every 40 feet unless alternative designs are approved in writing
by the Superintendent and the city Building Inspector.
      (6)   All culverts that run under a paved street/road must be certified
by a hydrologist or qualified engineer as to the sufficiency of the drainage
system. City may waive the certification requirement for culverts in those
circumstances where the culvert has been in existence for a substantial number
of years and has historically provided sufficient drainage.
      (7)   Any dead-end street, whether commercial or residential, presented
for acceptance by the city shall terminate with an approved cul-de-sac or other
approved turn around.
   (E)   Specifications for new residential streets/roadways:
      (1)   The sub grade for streets/roadway shall be made from suitable
materials free from stumps, trees, vegetation, top soil, etc. Excavation and
backfill should be placed to conform to Kentucky Department of Transportation
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.
      (2)   All streets/roadways shall have a minimum paved width of 20 linear
feet with a surface consisting of a six inch compacted mat of crushed stone
base (DGA), a three inch compacted mat of bituminous base asphalt and a two
inch compacted mat of bituminous surface. Bituminous tack coat shall be applied
between bind and surface installation at a minimum of .15 gallon/square yards.
These requirements may be increased by the city depending on the traffic flow
expected on said street/roadway.
         (a)   All crushed stone base and asphalt paving used shall conform to
requirements contained in Kentucky Department of Transportation Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and shall be installed
according to said specifications.
         (b)   Owner/contractor to certify that material meets Kentucky
Department of Transportation specifications prior to final inspection and prior
to city's acceptance of street/roadway.
         (c)   The city may request weigh sheets and tickets to be supplied to
verify tonnage prior to final inspection and prior to city's acceptance of
street/roadway. However, city shall waive the requirement for all streets/
roadways in existence but privately held at the time of the passage of this
subchapter, provided the street/roadway has been in existence for a substantial
number of years and the weigh sheets and tickets are now unavailable.
      (3)   All streets/roadways shall have a two foot shoulder. This shoulder
requirement may be waived by city if the street/roadway adjoins paved or gravel
areas, such as parking lots, etc. In those circumstances where the shoulder
requirement is waived, the city may impose additional requirements such as
stripping.
      (4)   All driveway entrances are to have a two foot wide paved entrance
apron and a tile sized for proper drainage where drainage runs through the
driveway (a minimum of 15 inches).
      (5)   Ditchline culverts must have 24 inches x 24 inches surface water
catch basins every 40 feet unless alternative designs are approved in writing
by the Superintendent and the City Building Inspector.
      (6)   All culverts that run under a paved street/road must be certified
by a hydrologist or qualified engineer as to the sufficiency of the drainage
system. City may waive the certification requirement for culverts in those
circumstances where the culvert has been in existence for a substantial number
of years and has historically provided sufficient drainage.
(Ord. 4-2003, passed 10-12-05)
§ 91.12 CREATION AND INSTALLATION OF SPEED BUMPS ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   Speed bumps may be installed on city streets only by the city, its
agents or designees. Speed bumps shall only be installed on city streets in
residential areas.
   (B)   City Council shall determine and authorize installation of all speed
bumps. City residents desiring a speed bump to be installed upon a city street
adjacent to their property must request and/or petition the Mayor of the city.
The petition must contain supportive signatures of at least 75% of the
residents of the city street or portion of the city street affected by the
proposed speed bump. Upon receipt of the petition, the Mayor of the city shall
present the petition to the City Council of the city at the next regular
meeting for consideration. The City Council shall consider the petition and
grant the petition and direct the Mayor and public works of the city to install
the necessary speed bump if the city council determines that the speed bump is
necessary for the public safety. City Council reserves the right to install and
maintain speed bumps without petition, on its own initiative or recommendation
of the Mayor, upon determination of need to provide public safety.
   (C)   Speed bumps shall be installed no greater than four inches tall and 12
inches wide. All speed bumps will be painted yellow. A "Speed Bump Ahead" sign
will be erected on both sides of the speed bump to alert oncoming traffic. The
speed bumps shall extend the entire width of the city street.
(Ord. 11-2005, passed 10-12-05)
ROAD AND BRIDGE PROJECTS
§ 91.15 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before the city expends state derived tax revenues on a municipal highway,
road, street, or bridge it shall hold a hearing in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter to take the sense of the public with regard to
the project and to priorities for use of tax moneys for road and bridge
purposes.
(KRS 174.100)
§ 91.16 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the contemplated date of expenditure of state derived tax revenues
on a road or bridge by the city, the city shall hold a public hearing for the
purpose of taking the sense of the public with regard to road and bridge
matters within the city. Notice of the hearing shall be given not less than
seven days nor more than 21 days before the scheduled date of the public
hearing and before beginning work on any project covered by this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (1))
§ 91.17 PUBLIC MAY TESTIFY; EFFECT OF TESTIMONY.
   (A)   At the hearing any person may speak with regard to any proposed
project, any project which he feels should be built or done which has not been
proposed, priorities for completion of projects, and any other matter related
to road or bridge projects.
   (B)   The city shall not be bound by the testimony heard at the hearing but
shall give due consideration to it.
(KRS 174.100 (2),(3))
§ 91.18 HEARING TO BE HELD PRIOR TO CONSTRUCTION.
   The city shall not begin construction on a road or bridge project wherein
state derived tax revenues are involved until the hearing as provided herein
has been held.
(KRS 174.100 (4))
§ 91.19 SEPARATE HEARING FOR EACH PROJECT NOT REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to require a separate hearing for
each project. A single hearing encompassing the entire road and bridge program,
provided all projects subsequently undertaken have been identified at the
hearing, shall meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(KRS 174.100 (5))
§ 91.20 EXEMPTIONS FROM HEARING REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to emergency repair
or replacement of roads or bridges necessitated by natural or man-caused
disasters nor to street cleaning or snow removal operations.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to projects which
are under construction as of the effective date of this subchapter unless
construction is suspended after the effective date of this subchapter and the
city desires to reactivate the project.
(KRS 174.100 (6),(7))
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 91.30 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.31 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.32 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see § 91.99
                
Cross-reference:
   Littering on streets or sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 91.33 REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or of the occupant of each and every
parcel of real estate in the city abutting upon any sidewalk to keep the
sidewalk abutting his premises free and clear of snow and ice to the extent
feasible under the prevailing weather conditions, and to remove therefrom all
snow and ice, to the extent feasible under the prevailing weather conditions,
accumulated thereon within a reasonable time which will ordinarily not exceed
12 hours after the abatement of any storm during which the snow and ice may
have accumulated.
Penalty, see § 91.99
POSTED ADDRESSES
§ 91.40 911 ADDRESSES.
   (A)   Any owner(s) or occupant(s) of residential property lying and being in
the incorporated area of the city, shall have posted on said residential
property a 911 address with numbers of a size not less than three inches.
   (B)   Any owner(s) or occupant(s) of residential property lying and being in
the incorporated area of the city, shall post their address in a location on
said residential property visible to the nearest city street on which their
property sits.
(Ord. 4-2008, passed 5-12-08)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty has not been provided for shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
91.06 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be subject to a fine of
$100.
(Ord. 1-1993, passed 5-10-93)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Nuisance created by others
   
92.06   Suspension of license
   
92.07   Political signage
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "AUTOMOBILE COLLECTOR." A person who collects and restores motor vehicles.
   "AUTOMOBILE PARTS." Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   "IMMINENT DANGER." A condition which could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death at any time.
   "INOPERATIVE CONDITION." Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in such condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   "MOTOR VEHICLE." Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   "NUISANCE." Public nuisance.
   “ORDINARY PUBLIC VIEW.” A sight line within normal visual range by a person
on a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property.
   “PARTS CAR.” An automobile that is not intended to be operated along streets
and roads, but is used to provide parts for the restoration of other
automobiles.
   "SCRAP METAL." Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum,
or any alloy thereof, whether covered with porcelain or any other material,
whether intact or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original
form and can no longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   "UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE." In a dangerous condition; having defective or
missing parts; or in such a condition generally as to be unfit for further use
as a conveyance.
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this chapter to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of Kentucky as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this chapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control or
management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to develop
thereon. The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack, or other
object standing in such a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb, or property of, or cause hurt, damage, or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent
thereto, by the falling thereof or of parts thereof.
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage, or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents,
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk, or property of another.
   (C)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which creates
a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity.
   (D)   Weeds and grass. The excessive growth of weeds and grass, or other
vegetation. Unless otherwise provided, "EXCESSIVE" shall mean growth to a
height of 12 inches or more.
   (E)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered, or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation, or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place.
   (F)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks, and drainage. The
growing and maintenance of trees and shrubbery which in any way interferes with
the use, construction, or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes injury to
streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage.
   (G)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal's pen, yard, lot, or
other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors.
   (H)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in an
inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile parts,
or scrap metal within the city limits except on premises authorized by the city
for such purposes.
   (I)   Unsafe structures. Any structure which is unsafe or unfit for human
habitation, occupancy, or use or to permit conditions to exist in the structure
which are dangerous or injurious to the health or safety of the occupants of
the structure, the occupants of neighboring structures, users of adjacent
streets or passways, or other residents of the city.
(Am. Ord. 4-2015, passed 5-11-15) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance, health
hazard, or source of filth to develop thereon.
   (B)   Whenever any nuisance situation is discovered, the authorized city
official shall give no less than five days' written notice to remedy such
situation. The notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner of
the property, as it appears on the current tax assessment roll. Upon the
failure of the owner of the property to comply, the authorized city official is
authorized to send city employees upon the property to remedy the nuisance
situation. If the same nuisance is discovered on the same property within a 12-
month period of time from the first one, then the requirement for a mailed
notice to the property owner is waived and an authorized city official can send
city employees upon the property to remedy the nuisance situation.
   (C)   The city shall have a lien against the property for the reasonable
value of labor and materials used in remedying the nuisance situation. The
affidavit of the authorized city official shall constitute prima facie evidence
of the amount of the lien and the regularity of the proceedings pursuant to KRS
38l.770, and shall be recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
      The lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording
and shall bear interest at the rate established by the city thereafter until
paid. The lien created shall take precedence over all other subsequent liens,
except state, county, school board, and city taxes, and may be enforced by
judicial proceeding.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy prescribed in division (C) of this section
or any other remedy authorized by law, the owner of a property upon which a
lien has been attached pursuant to this section shall be personally liable for
the amount of the lien, including all interest, civil penalties, and other
charges and the city may bring a civil action against the owner and shall have
the same remedies as provided for the recovery of a debt owed.
(Ord. 1-2004, passed 4-19-04; Am. Ord. 5-2016, passed 3-18-16)
§ 92.05 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant, or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests, or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
§ 92.06 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the City Council that a
nuisance exists and the City Council deems that there is an immediate threat to
the public health, safety, welfare, the City Council may by majority vote
suspend the license of any person conducting business upon the premises where
the nuisance exists.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall cause notice of the suspension to be served
personally upon the licensee or at the premises where the nuisance exists.
   (C)   Upon application of the licensee, the City Council may remove the
suspension upon such terms as it may direct.
§ 92.07 POLITICAL SIGNAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post a political campaign sign
on or over any public property within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post a political campaign sign
on any property, public or private, more than 45 days prior to the election for
which the sign is posted and it shall be unlawful to fail to remove a political
sign within 15 days after the election for which the sign was posted.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Public Works or his authorized agents are hereby
authorized to remove any political signs found posted within the city limits,
when such sign is in violation of this section. When it is determined by the
Superintendent of Public Works that a political sign is in violation of this
section, he shall attempt to contact the person responsible for the posting of
the sign. If the sign is not removed within 24 hours after notification, the
sign shall be removed by the Superintendent and the city shall be entitled to
receive the sum of $10 for every political sign so removed to cover the expense
of removal and notice.
   (D)   Political campaign signs in violation of this section are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated as such by the city in
accordance with this section. The collection of removal fees shall not preclude
the city from prosecuting any person for violating this section.
(Ord. 3-2015, passed 3-9-15) (Penalty see §
92.99)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day's
continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 93: FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
93.01   Definitions; legality of items
   
93.02   Sale or use prohibited; exception for public display
   
93.03   Bond or liability insurance requirement
   
93.04   Exempted sales and uses
   
93.05   Destruction of fireworks
Fire Prevention
   
93.20   Blasting permit
   
93.21   Storage of flammables and other matter
   
93.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS; LEGALITY OF ITEMS.
   (A)   As used in KRS 227.700 to 227.750, “FIREWORKS” means any composition
or device for the purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and which meets the definition of
“consumer fireworks”as defined in division (B) or “display” fireworks as
defined in division (D) and as set forth in the U.S. Department of
Transportation's (DOT) hazardous materials regulations.
      (1)   Exception number 1: Toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with DOT
regulations, and packed and shipped according to said regulations, are not
considered to be fireworks and shall be allowed to be used and sold at all
times.
      (2)   Exception number 2: Model rockets and model rocket motors designed,
sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not
considered to be fireworks.
      (3)   Exception number 3: Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a
mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and saltpeter are not considered as being designed
for producing audible effects.
(KRS 227.700)
   (B)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, “COMMON FIREWORKS” means
fireworks that are suitable for use by the public, designed primarily to
produce visible effects by combustion, and comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Product
Safety Commission. The types, sizes, and amount of pyrotechnic contents of
these devices are limited as enumerated in this chapter. Some small devices
designed to produce audible effects are included, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive composition, and
aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive composition.
“CONSUMER FIREWORKS” are further defined by the Consumer Product Safety
Commission in CPSC, 16 CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts 1500 and 1507, are classified as
division 1.4 explosives by the U.S. Department of Transportation and include
the following:
      (1)   Ground and hand-held sparkling devices.
         (a)   Dipped stick-sparkler or wire sparkler. These devices consist a
metal wire or wood dowel that has been coated with pyrotechnic composition.
Upon ignition of the tip of the device, a shower of sparks is produced.
Sparklers may contain up to 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition per item.
Those devices containing any perchlorate or chlorate salts may not exceed five
grams of pyrotechnic composition per item. Wire sparklers which contain no
magnesium and which contain less than 100 grams of composition per item are not
included in this category, in accordance with DOT regulations.
         (b)   Cylindrical fountain. Cylindrical tube containing not more than
75 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, a shower of colored sparks,
and sometimes a whistling effect or smoke, is produced. This device may be
provided with a spike for insertion into the ground (spike fountain), a wood or
plastic base for placing on the ground (base fountain), or a wood or cardboard
handle, if intended to be hand-held (handle fountain). When more than one tube
is mounted on a common base, total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200
grams, or 500 grams if the tubes are separated from each other on the base by a
distance of at least 1/2 inch.
         (c)   Cone fountain. Cardboard or heavy paper cone containing up to 50
grams of pyrotechnic composition. The effect is the same as that of a
cylindrical fountain. When more than one cone is mounted on a common base, the
total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams of the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (d)   Illuminating torch. Cylindrical tube containing up to 100 grams
of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, colored fire is produced. May be
spike, base, or hand-held. When more than one tube is mounted on a common base,
the total pyrotechnic composition may not exceed 200 grams, or 500 grams if the
tubes are separated from each other on the base by a distance of at least 1/
2 inch.
         (e)   Wheel. A device attached to a post or tree by means of a nail or
string. A wheel may have one or more drivers, each of which may contain not
more than 60 grams of pyrotechnic composition. No wheel contain more than 200
grams total pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, the wheel revolves,
producing a shower of color and sparks and, sometimes, a whistling effect.
         (f)   Ground spinner. Small device containing not more than 20 grams
of pyrotechnic composition, similar in operation to a wheel but intended to be
placed on the ground and ignited. A shower of sparks and color is produced by
the rapidly spinning device.
         (g)   Flitter sparkler. Narrow paper tube attached to a stick or wire
and filled with not more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that
produces color and sparks upon ignition. The paper at one end of the tube is
ignited to make the device function.
         (h)   Toy smoke device. Small plastic or paper item containing not
more than 100 grams of pyrotechnic composition that, upon ignition, produces
white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (2)   Aerial devices.
         (a)   Sky rockets and bottle rockets. Cylindrical tube containing not
more than 20 grams of pyrotechnic composition. Sky rockets contain a wooden
stick for guidance and stability and rise into the air upon ignition. A burst
of color or noise or both is produced at the height of flight.
         (b)   Missile-type rocket. A device similar to a sky rocket in size,
composition, and effect that uses fins rather than a stick for guidance and
stability.
         (c)   Helicopter, aerial spinner. A tube containing up to 20 grams of
pyrotechnic composition. A propeller or blade is attached, which, upon
ignition, lifts the rapidly spinning device into the air. A visible or audible
effect is produced at the height of flight.
         (d)   Roman candles. Heavy paper or cardboard tube containing up to 20
grams of pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition, up to ten stars (pellets of
pressed pyrotechnic composition that burn with bright color) are individually
expelled at several second intervals.
         (e)   Mine, shell. Heavy cardboard or paper tube usually attached to a
wood or plastic base and containing up to 60 grams of total chemical
composition (lift charge, burst charge, and visible or audible effect
composition). Upon ignition, “stars,” components producing reports containing
up to 130 milligrams of explosive composition per report, or other devices are
propelled into the air. The term “mine” refers to a device with no internal
components containing a bursting charge, and the term “shell” refers to a
device that propels a component that subsequently bursts open in the air. A
mine or shell device may contain more than one tube provided the tubes fire in
sequence upon ignition of one external fuse. The term “cake” refers to a dense-
packed collection of mine or shell tubes. Total chemical composition including
lift charges of any multiple tube devices may not exceed 200 grams. The maximum
quantity of lift charge in any one tube of a mine or shell device shall not
exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quality of break or bursting charge in any
component shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical composition in
the component.
         (f)   Aerial shell kit, reloadable tube. A package kit containing a
cardboard, high-density polyethylene (HDPE, or equivalent launching tube with
multiple-shot aerial shells. Each aerial shell is limited to a maximum of 60
grams of total chemical composition (lift charge, bust charge, and visible or
audible effect composition), and the maximum diameter of each shell shall not
exceed 1 3/4 inches. In addition, the maximum quantity of lift charge in any
shell shall not exceed 20 grams, and the maximum quantity of break or bursting
charge in any shell shall not exceed 25% of the total weight of chemical
composition in the shell. The total chemical composition of all the shells in
the kit, including lift charge, shall not exceed 400 grams. The user lower a
shell into the launching tube, at the time of firing, with the fusing extending
out of the top of the tube. After the firing, the tube is then reloaded with
another shell for the next firing. All launching tubes shall be capable of
firing twice the number of shells in the kit without failure of the tube. Each
package of multiple-shot aerial shells must comply with all warning label
requirements of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
      (3)   Audible ground devices.
         (a)   Firecrackers, salutes. Small paper-wrapped or cardboard tube
containing not more than 50 milligrams of pyrotechnic composition. Those used
in aerial devices may contain not more than 130 milligrams of explosive
composition per report. Upon ignition, noise and a flash of light is produced.
         (b)   Chaser. Small paper or cardboard tube that travels along the
ground upon ignition. A whistling effect, or other noise, is often produced.
The explosive composition used to create the noise may not exceed 50
milligrams.
(KRS 227.702)
   (C)   Items listed below are classified as NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS
and are not classified as consumer fireworks by the U.S. Department of
Transportation and their transportation, storage, retail sale, possession,
sale, and use shall be allowed throughout the state at all times.
      (1)   Snake, glow worm. Pressed pellet of pyrotechnic composition that
produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning. The ash expands in length as the
pellet burns. These devices may not contain mercuric thiocyanate.
      (2)   Smoke device. Tube or sphere containing pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      (3)   Wire sparkler. Wire coated with pyrotechnic composition that
produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items may not contain
magnesium and must not exceed 100 grams of composition per item. Devices
containing any chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams of
composition per item.
      (4)   Trick noisemaker. Item that produces a small report intended to
surprise the user. These devices include:
         (a)   Party popper. Small plastic or paper item containing not more
than 16 milligrams of explosive composition that is friction sensitive. A
string protruding from the device is pulled to ignite it, expelling paper
streamers and producing a small report.
         (b)   Booby trap. Small tube with string protruding from both ends,
similar to a party popper in design. The ends of the string are pulled to
ignite the friction sensitive composition, producing a small report.
         (c)   Snapper. Small, paper-wrapped item containing a minute quantity
of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand. When dropped, the device
explodes producing a small report.
         (d)   Trick match. Kitchen or book match that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive or pyrotechnic composition. Upon ignition of the
match a small report or a shower of sparks is produced.
         (e)   Cigarette load. Small wooden peg that has been coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition. Upon ignition of a cigarette
containing one of the pegs, a small report is produced.
         (f)   Auto burglar alarm. Tube which contains pyrotechnic composition
that produces a loud whistle or smoke, or both, when ignited. A small quantity
of explosive, not exceeding 50 milligrams may also be used to produce a small
report. A squib is used to ignite the device.
(KRS 227.704)
   (D)   As used in KRS 227.700 through 227.750, “DISPLAY FIREWORKS” means
pyrotechnic devices or large fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration or detonation. This term includes,
but is not limited to, firecrackers containing more than two grains (130
milligrams) of explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than 40
grams of pyrotechnic composition, and other display pieces which exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks. Display fireworks are defined
by the Consumer Product Safety Commission in CPSC, 16 C.F.R. Pts. 1500 and
1507, and are classified as class B explosives by the U.S. Department of
Transportation.
(KRS 227.706)
   (E)   Legality of items.
      (1)    Items described in division (B)(1) above are legal for retail sale
provided all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are
met.
      (2)   Items described in divisions (B)(2), (B)(3), and (D) are not legal
for retail sale but are legal under permits granted pursuant to this chapter
for the purposes specified in this chapter for public displays and may be sold
at wholesale as provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Items described in division (C) are legal for retail sale provided
all applicable federal and state requirements with respect thereto are met.
(KRS 227.708)
   (F)   Age requirement. No person or business shall give, offer for sale, or
sell any consumer fireworks listed in KRS 227.702 to any person under 18 years
of age.
(227.715)
§ 93.02 SALE OR USE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   No person, firm, co-partnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell, possess, use, or explode,
any display fireworks, except as follows:
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department or other authorized city
official may grant permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by the
city, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      (2)   Every display shall be handled by a competent display operator to
be approved by the public official by whom the permit is granted, and shall be
of such character, and so located, discharged or fired as in the opinion of the
official, after proper inspection, to not be hazardous to property or endanger
any person.
      (3)   “COMPETENT DISPLAY OPERATOR” shall be defined as the person with
overall responsibility for the operation and safety of a fireworks display. The
competent display operator shall have a Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms,
and Explosives (ATF) License and have participated as an assistant in firing at
least five public displays. A “competent display operator” is also an employee
possessor. A permit under division (A)(1) shall be issued only to a competent
display operator holding an ATF license.
      (4)   At least one competent display operator shall be on site during
display set-up and firing. This complement display operator shall maintain a
copy of the permit application, as signed by the local authority having
jurisdiction as identified in this section, on site and at all times the
display is in place, and shall be presented on demand of the State Fire Marshal
or local Fire Chief. All public displays that require issuance of a permit
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of National Fire
Protection Association (NEPA) 1123 Code for Fireworks Display (adopted
edition).
      (5)   Permits shall be filed with the office of the State Fire Marshal at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. After this privilege shall
have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of fireworks for the
display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted under this
subsection shall be transferable. For the purpose of this section, “public
display of fireworks” shall include the use of pyrotechnic devices or
pyrotechnic materials before a proximate audience, whether indoors or outdoors.
      (6)   Any person remaining within the display area shall be identified as
licensed by the ATF, or an employee thereof, or be an assistant in training to
become a competent display operator. All persons remaining within the display
area shall be at least 18 years of age.
      (7)   The Commissioner of the Department of Housing, Buildings and
Construction with recommendation from the State Fire Marshal shall promulgate
administrative regulations in accordance with KRS Chapter 13A to administer the
provisions of this division. The regulations shall address the process by which
permits are issued and any other procedures that are reasonably necessary to
effectuate this division.
   (B)   The sale, at wholesale, of any display fireworks for permitted
displays by any resident manufacturer, wholesaler, dealer, or jobber, in
accordance with regulations of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms, and Explosives if the sale is to a person holding a display permit as
outlined in division (A) of this section. The permit holder shall present the
permit along with other verifiable identification at the time of sale.
   (C)   The sale of display fireworks in accordance with a license issued by
the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
   (D)   The sale, and use in emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling
devices and distress signals for marine, aviation, and highway use.
   (E)   The use of fuses and railway torpedoes by railroads.
   (F)   The sale and use of blank cartridges for use in a show or theater or
for signal or ceremonial purpose in athletics or sports.
   (G)   The use of any pyrotechnic device by military organizations.
   (H)   The use of fireworks for agricultural purposes under the direct
supervision of the U.S. Department of the Interior or any equivalent or local
agency.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a person, firm, co-
partnership, non-profit, or corporation from offering for sale, exposing for
sale, selling at retail, keeping with intent to sell, possessing or using
consumer fireworks as defined in KRS 227.702 as permitted pursuant to KRS
227.715.
(KRS 227.710)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.03 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIREMENT.
   No permit shall be issued under §
93.02 unless the applicant shall give bond or evidence of liability insurance
deemed adequate by the official to whom application for the permit is made, in
a sum not less than $1,000,000. However, the appropriate city official or the
State Fire Marshal may require a larger amount if in their judgment the
situation requires it, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused thereby either to a person or to property by reason of the permitted
display, and arising from any acts of the licensee, his agents, employees or
subcontractors.
(KRS 227.720)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.04 EXEMPTED SALES AND USES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the retail sale and use of explosives
or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary business or industry, or
gold star producing sparklers, which contain no magnesium or chlorate, toy
snakes which contain no mercury, smoke novelties and party novelties, which
contain less than twenty-five hundredths of a grain of explosive mixture, or
shells or cartridges, used as ammunition in firearms, or blank cartridges for a
show or theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports,
of for use by military organizations, or the sale of any kind of fireworks
provided the same are to be shipped by the seller directly out of the state.
(KRS 227.730)
§ 93.05 DESTRUCTION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The State Fire Marshal, or any fire department having jurisdiction
which has been deputized to act on behalf of the state fire marshal, shall
cause to be removed at the expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks which
are stored and held in violation of this chapter. After a period of 60 days,
the seized fireworks may be offered for sale by closed bid to a properly
certified fireworks wholesaler.
   (B)   After a period of 60 days, the seized fireworks may be offered for
sale by closed bid to a properly certified manufacturer, distributor, or
wholesaler. All seized fireworks or explosives with a Class 1.3G or "Display"
designation shall require the notification of the United States Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The state fire marshal shall provide
the owner or possessor a receipt containing the complete inventory of any
fireworks seized within five business days of the seizure.
   (C)   Before any seized fireworks may be disposed of:
      (1)   If the owner of the seized fireworks is known to the State Fire
Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall give notice by registered mail or
personal service to the owner of the State Fire Marshal's intention to dispose
of the fireworks. The notice shall inform the owner of the State Fire Marshal's
intent. The State Fire Marshal shall conduct an administrative hearing in
accordance with KRS Chapter 13B concerning the disposal of fireworks; or
      (2)   If the identity of the owner of any seized fireworks is not known
to the State Fire Marshal, the State Fire Marshal shall cause to be published,
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the seizure was
made, notice of the seizure, and of the State Fire Marshal's intention to
dispose of the fireworks. The notice shall be published once each week for
three consecutive weeks. If no person claims ownership of the fireworks within
ten days of the date of the last publication, the state fire marshal may
proceed with disposal of the fireworks. If the owner does claim the fireworks
within ten days of the date of the last publication, a hearing as set out in
division (A) shall be held.
   (D)   Nothing in KRS 227.700 to 227.750 shall restrict a local government
from enacting ordinances that affect the sale or use of fireworks within its
jurisdiction.
(KRS 227.750)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.20 BLASTING PERMIT.
   No person shall cause a blast to occur within the city without making
application in writing beforehand, setting forth the exact natureof the
intended operation, and receiving a permit to blast from the authorized city
official. The authorized city official, before granting such permit may require
the applicant to provide a bond to indemnify the city and all other persons
against injury or damages which might result from the proposed blasting.
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.21 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES AND OTHER MATTER.
   (A)   All flammable or combustible materials shall be arranged and stored in
a manner which affords reasonable safety against the danger of fire.
   (B)   Waste paper, ashes, oil rags, waste rags, excelsior, or any material
of a similar hazardous nature shall not be accumulated in any cellar or any
other portion of any building of any kind. Proper fireproof receptacles shall
be provided for such hazardous materials.
   (C)   No matter shall be stored or arranged in a manner which impedes or
prevents access to or exit from any premises in case of fire.
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
93.02 or
93.03, the regulations issued thereunder or any order issued thereunder, or who
knowingly induces another, directly or indirectly, to violate the provisions of
those sections, shall be fined not more than $l,000, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both.
(KRS 227.990 (4))
   (B)   Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500.
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Throwing litter from vehicle
   
94.02   Tracking foreign matter on streets
   
94.03   Hauling loose material
   
94.04   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
94.05   Litter on private property
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLE.
   No person while a driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.02 TRACKING FOREIGN MATTER ON STREETS.
   No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within the city, the
wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon any street, alley, or other
public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or foreign matter of any
kind.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.03 HAULING LOOSE MATERIAL.
   Every person hauling or causing to be hauled dirt, sand, gravel, cement,
fill dirt, or loose material of any kind in or upon any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place shall haul it, or cause it to be hauled in
vehicles provided with tight boxes or beds so constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of the contents from falling or being thrown, blown, or deposited
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place. Any materials which
fall from, or which are thrown, blown, or deposited from any vehicle upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, shall be removed immediately by
the person in charge of the vehicle.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.04 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.05 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon streets, sidewalks, or other
public places, or upon any private property.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by that person or not.
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day the violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 95: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
95.01   Cost recovery for response to hazardous material releases adopted by
reference.
§ 95.01 COST RECOVERY FOR RESPONSE TO HAZARDOUS MATERIAL RELEASES ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE.
   The city, having enacted an ordinance identical to Bath County Ordinance No.
11-2003 which establishes that in the event a release of any hazardous material
or threatened release of hazardous material being transported in Bath County or
its cities, the handler, shipper, carrier, and/or owner-operator shall be
jointly and severally responsible for all costs incurred by the county hereby
adopts said ordinance by reference as if set out in its entirety.
(Ord. 11-2003, passed 6-11-03)
CHAPTER 96: IDENTITY THEFT POLICY
Section
   
96.01   Adoption of the Identity Theft Protection Program by reference
§ 96.01 ADOPTION OF THE IDENTITY THEFT PROTECTION PROGRAM BY REFERENCE.
   The City Council hereby adopts and the Mayor on behalf of the city, be and
hereby is authorized and directed to implement an Identity Theft Protection
Program, attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference to prevent
identity theft at the city.
(Ord. 11-2008, passed 11-11-08)
CHAPTER 97: ALARMS
Section
   
97.01   Erroneous activation of security alarm systems
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 ERRONEOUS ACTIVATION OF SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No person or company that owns or controls a premises located within
the city shall permit a security alarm system to be erroneously activated on or
at said premises.
   (B)   For each erroneous activation of a security alarm system located
within the city, except for the first five erroneous activations thereof in
each calendar year the person or company that owns or controls a premises upon
which is located the security alarm system, shall be charged and assessed a fee
of $25 for each erroneous activation of such security alarm system during the
calendar year. After ten erroneous activations during any calendar year, the
person or company that owns or controls a premises upon which is located the
security alarm system, shall be charged and assessed a fee of $50 for each
erroneous activation.
   (C)   The following shall not be included when computing the number of
erroneous activations which have occurred:
      (1)   Any erroneous activation which was caused by a storm, lightning,
fire, earthquake, or other acts of God; or
      (2)   Any erroneous activation which was caused by failure of a utility
system, such as water, electric, gas, etc.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall maintain a record of all erroneous
activations or false alarms. After three erroneous activations during any
calendar year the Chief of Police shall issue a warning letter to the person or
company that owns or controls the premises upon which the erroneous activations
have occurred advising the person or company of the number of erroneous
activations that have occurred thus far and that should six or more erroneous
activations occur during the remainder of the calendar year a fee will be
assessed. At such time a person or company has an erroneous activation that
warrants a fee as set forth in this section, the Chief of Police shall notify
the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall thereupon issue a bill for the appropriate
fee to the person or company for payment within 30 days.
(Ord. 5-2008, passed 6-9-08)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Failure of any person or company to timely pay any fee assessed under §
97.01, shall constitute a violation. Any person found guilty of a violation
under this section shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $100 for
each violation.
(Ord. 5-2008, passed 6-9-08)
CHAPTER 98: SYNTHETIC DRUGS
Section
   
98.01   Prohibited
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PROHIBITED.
   The possession, sale, manufacture, deliver, or transport of the following
chemicals is prohibited in Owingsville, Kentucky:
   (A)   Tetrahydrocannabinols - synthetic equivalents of the substances
contained in the plant, or in the resinous extractives of Cannabis, sp. and/or
synthetic substances, immediate derivatives and their isomers with similar
chemical structure and pharmacological activity such as the following:
      (1)   Delta-1 Cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol, and their optical
isomers;
      (2)   Delta-6 Cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol, and their optical
isomers;
      (3)   Delta-3,4 Cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol, and its optical
isomers;
(Since nomenclature of these substances is not internationally standardized,
compounds of these structures, regardless of numerical designation of atomic
positions, is covered.)
   (B)   Synthetic cannabinoids as follows:
      (1)   2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-{'{'}2-methyloctan-2- yl)phenol)
(also known as CP 47,497 and homologues);
      (2)   rei-2-[(15,3R)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5-{'{'}2-methylnonan-2- yl{'}'}
phenol {'{'}also known as CP 47,497-CS homolog{'}'};
      (3)   [(6aR)-9-{'{'}hydroxymethyl{'}'}-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan- 2-
yl)-6a, 7 10, lOa-tetrahydrobenzo (c] chromen-l-ol)] {'{'}also known as HU- 210
{'}'};
      (4)   (dexanabinol, (6a5,10a5)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3- (2-
methyloctan-2-yl)- 6a, 7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzol[c]chromen-1-ol{'}'} {'{'}also
known as HU-211{'}'};
      (5)   1-Pentyl-3-{'{'}1-naphthoyl) indole {'{'}also known as JWH-018
{'}'};
      (6)   1-Butyl-3-{'{'}l-naphthoyl) indole {'{'}also known as JWH-073{'}'};
      (7)   {'{'}2-methyl-l-propyi-1H-indol-3-yl{'}'}-lnapthalenyl-methanone {'
{'}also known as JWH-015{'}'};
      (8)   {'{'}l-hexyi-1H-indol-3-yl)-l-naphthalenyl-methanone {'{'}also
known as JWH-019{'}'};
      (9)   [1-[2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyi]-1H-indol-3-yl]-1-naphthalenyl-
methanone {'{'}also known as JWH-200{'}'};
      (10)   1-(1-pentyi-1H-indol-3-yl)-2-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-ethanone {'{'}also
known asJWH-250{'}'};
      (11)   2-{'{'}{'{'}15,2S,5S)-5-hydroxy-2-{'{'}3-hydroxtpropyl) cyclohexyl
{'}'}-5- (2-methyloctan-2-yl)pnenol {'{'}also known as CP 55,940{'}'};
      (12)   (4-methyl-1-naphthalenyl)(1-pentyi-1H-indol-3-yl{'}'}- methanone
{'{'}also known as JWH-122{'}'};
      (13)   (4-methyl-1-naphthalenyl)(1-pentyi-1H-indol-3-yl)- methanone {'
{'}also known as JWH-398;
      (14)   {'{'}4-methoxyphenyO{'{'}1-pentyi-1H-indol-3-yl)-methanone {'
{'}also known as RCS-4{'}'};
      (15)   1-{'{'}1-(2-cyclohexylethyi{'}'}-1H-indol-3-yl)-2-(2-
methoxyphenyl{'}'}jethanone {'{'}also known as RCS-8{'}'}; and
(Since nomenclature of these substances is not internationally standardized,
any immediate precursor or immediate derivative of these substances shall be
covered).
   (C)   Methcathinone,; some other names: (2-(methylamino)-propiophenone;
alpha-(methylamino) propiophenone; 2-(methyiamino{'}'}-1-phenylpropan-1-one;
alpha-– methylaminopropiophenone; monomethylpropion; 3,4-
methylenedioxypyrovalerone and/or mephedrone; 3,4-methylenedioxypyrovalerone
(MPVD); ephedrone; N-methylcathinone; methylcathinone; AL-464;AL-422; AL-163
and UR1432;
   (D)   N-benzvlpiperazine, also known as BZP, its immediate precursors and
immediate derivatives, its salts, optical isomers and salts of optical isomers;
   (E)   1-(3-(Trifluoro-methyl)-phenylpiperazine) (TFMPP), its immediate
precursors and immediate derivatives, its salts, optical isomers and salts of
optical isomers;
   (F)   4-Bromo-2,5-dimethoxy-l-benzvlpiperazine (2C-B-BZP), its immediate
precursors and immediate derivatives, its salts, optical isomers and salts of
optical isomers;
   (G)   2,3-Dichlorophenylpiperazine (DCPP), its immediate precursors and
immediate derivatives, its salts, optical isomers and salts of optical isomers;
   (H)   1,4-Dibenzylpiperazine (DBZP), its immediate precursors and immediate
derivatives, its salts, optical isomers ind salts of optical isomers;
   (I)   4-Methyl-1-benzylpiperazine (MBZP{'}'}, its immediate precursors and
immediate derivatives, its salts, optical isomers and salts of optical isomers;
   (J)   4-lodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenethylamine (2C-I,4-iodo-2,5-DMPEA), its
immediate precursors and immediate derivatives, its salts, optical isomers and
salts of optical isomers;
   (K)   4-Methylmethcathinone (mephedrone), its immediate precursors and
immediate derivatives, its salts, optical isomers and salts of optical isomers;
   (L)   Dimethylheptvlpyran, its immediate precursors and immediate
derivatives, its salts, optical isomers and salts of optical isomers;
   (M)   Kava, also known as Piper methisticum, synthetic equivalents of the
substances contained in the plant, or in the resinous extractives, and
kavalactones, its immediate derivatives, and its salts, optical isomers and
salts of optical isomers;
   (N)   Khat, also known as Catha edulis, and synthetic equivalents of the
substances contained in the plant, or in he resinous extractives;
   (O)   Kratom, (Mitragyna speciosa korth), synthetic equivalents of the
substances contained in the plant, or in the resinous extractives and
mitragynine, its immediate derivatives, and its salts, optical isomers and
salts of optical isomers.
   (P)   Hashish and Hash oil, synthetic equivalents of the substances
contained in the plant, or in the resinous extractives and mitragynine, its
immediate derivatives, and its salt, optical isomers and salts of optical
isomers.
   (Q)   Any analog of any chemicals listed above.
      (1)   An "Analog" means a substance, the chemical structure of which is
substantially similar to the chemical structure of a controlled substance in
Schedule I or II:
         (a)   That has a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on
the central nervous system that is substantially similar to or greater than the
stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system
of a controlled substance in Schedule I or II of the Federal Drug Scheduling
Act or of a substance listed within this section; or
         (b)   With respect to a particular person, if the person represents or
intends that the substance have a stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic
effect on the central nervous system that is substantially similar to or
greater than the stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic effect on the central
nervous system of a controlled substance in Schedule I or II of the Federal
Drug Scheduling Act or of a substance listed within this section;
      (2)   "Analog" does not include:
         (a)   A controlled substance; or
         (b)   Any substance for which there is an approved new drug
application under the Federal Food, Drug, and "Cosmetic Act; or
         (c)   With respect to a particular person, any substance, if an
exemption is in effect for investigational use, :or that person, as provided by
United States Code, Title 21, Section 355, and the person is registered as a
controlled substance researcher as required under Section 152.12, Subdivision
3, to the extent conduct with respect to the substance is pursuant to the
exemption and registration.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed 4-9-12) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who sells, manufactures, delivers, transports, any product
containing any one, or combination of, chemicals listed herein, shall be guilty
of trafficking in a designer drug. The person shall be punished as a Class A
misdemeanor, and shall be sentenced up to 12 months incarceration and/or be
fined up to $500.
   (B)   Any person who has in their possession or control any product
containing any one, or combination of, chemicals fisted herein, shall be guilty
of possession of a designer drug. The person shall be punished as a Class A
misdemeanor, and shall be sentenced to up to 12 months incarceration and/or be
fined up to $500.
(Ord. 3-2012, passed 4-9-12)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   OCCUPATIONAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   INSURANCE COMPANIES
      
114.   ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
      
115.   BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
      
116.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
117.   PAIN CLINICS
      
118.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
CHAPTER 110: OCCUPATIONAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses, or
professions
   
110.02   Applications to be filed
   
110.03   Issuance of yearly or semi-yearly licenses
   
110.04   Businesses with two or more types of business under one roof or two or
more structures
   
110.05   Refund; transfer of license
   
110.06   Due date; penalty for delinquent payment
   
110.07   Disposition of funds
   
110.08   Enforcement
   
110.09   Schedule of fees
   
110.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Application for business license
   
Appendix B: Copy of license
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES, OR
PROFESSIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or association, to
engage in, pursue or carry on any business, trade, or occupation or profession
mentioned in this chapter without first obtaining a license and paying the fee
provided in §
110.09.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-7-88)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATIONS TO BE FILED.
   (A)   Each person subject to the payment of a license fee under this chapter
shall file an application with the City Clerk/Treasurer on or before March 31,
and on or before May 31, of each year thereafter that such person shall renew
or obtain any license subject to the provisions of this chapter. Such
applications shall be filed on forms to be furnished by the city, which shall
be obtained at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   Each application shall show each kind of business, profession,
occupation, trade, vocation, calling, or activity engaged in or services
rendered; the address of each place of business licensed; the exact name shown
or to be shown on the taxpayer's income tax return to the state, the exact
number of employees, and such other information as may be considered necessary
by the city. (See
Appendix A).
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-7-88)
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE OF YEARLY OR SEMI-YEARLY LICENSES.
   All yearly and semi-yearly licenses issued under this chapter for any trade,
business, occupation, profession, or calling shall be as follows:
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation establishing or conducting a business
covered by this chapter between July 1 and December 31 shall be liable for one
year's license.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation establishing or conducting a business
covered by this chapter after December 31 of the current year, may purchase
above mentioned licenses for one half of said current year.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-7-88)
§ 110.04 BUSINESSES WITH TWO OR MORE TYPES OF BUSINESS UNDER ONE ROO F OR TWO
OR MORE STRUCTURES.
   Any persons, corporations, firms, companies, or businesses conducting
business which is located under two or more structures, or different types of
businesses under the same roof shall be subject to separate license fees for
each business provided that they are operated as separate concerns.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-7-88)
§ 110.05 REFUND; TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter is subject to refund; nor may a license
be transferred except by approval of the City Council, and the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall make and keep a record thereof.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-7-88)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.06 DUE DATE; PENALTY FOR DELINQUENT PAYMENT.
   (A)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall submit notices of business license fees
on or before June 1 of each year.
   (B)   Business license fees are due and payable on or before July 1 of each
year.
   (C)   If license fees are not paid on or before July 1, a 10% penalty will
be added and any business having not paid the required fee within 30 days will
be subject to court proceedings.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-7-88)
§ 110.07 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   All monies received for license fees paid under this chapter shall be
deposited to the credit of the current General Fund, and used for the general
expense of the city.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-7-88)
§ 110.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department of the city to enforce the
provisions of this chapter; and a failure or neglect on the part of any police
officer to enforce the provision of this chapter shall be grounds for his
dismissal, in accordance with state statutes.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-7-88)
§ 110.09 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The following business license fees are hereby fixed, established, levied,
and imposed upon businesses, occupations, trades, or professions that are
carried on, conducted, or held within the limits of the city. These license
fees are hereby fixed, established, imposed, and levied for the purpose of and
to be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the city, and before any person,
firm, company, or corporation shall conduct or engage in any such trade,
business, profession, or occupation in the city, such person, firm, company, or
corporation shall first procure a license to do so and pay the fee therefor as
follows: (See
Appendix B).
   (A)   Professions. Each and every person engaged in the practice of a
profession or carrying on any business mentioned, but not limited to in this
section shall pay an annual license fee of $75 per year.
Architects                   Ophthalmologists
Attorneys-at-law             Optometrists
Certified public accountants Oculists
Chiropractors                Opticians
Chiropodists                 Pharmacists
Civil engineers              Physicians
Claim agents                 Surgeons
Dentists                     Surveyors
Electrical engineers         Veterinarians
Embalmers
Funeral directors
 
   (B)   Merchants, firms, businesses, and persons. Each and every person,
corporation, firm, company, merchant, or business conducting business in the
city shall pay a minimum annual license fee in the amount so stipulated.
Business Classification Annual Fee
Part-time self-employed $ 25
Full-time self-employed 50
0-6 employees*          50
7-12 employees*         125
13 and over employees*  200
Itinerant salesperson   75
                        (or $15 per day per person)
*Any person on payroll; wholesalers; deliveries.
 
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-7-88)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or association violating any of the
provisions of this chapter, where a different fine is not provided, shall be
deemed to have committed a violation and shall be fined not less than $l nor
more than $50 for each offense. Each day the violation is continued shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-7-88)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE.
APPLICATION - BUSINESS LICENSE
RETURN TO:    CITY OF OWINGSVILLE
         P.O. BOX 147
         OWINGSVILLE, KY. 40360
NAME OF BUSINESS                              NO. OF EMPLOYEES       
BUSINESS ADDRESS                              
OWNER Name/Address                            
(Give name shown on Ky. State Income Tax Return)
LIST ANY OTHER BUSINESSES: (Businesses with 2 or more types of business under
one roof or 2 or more structures)
                                              NO. OF EMPLOYEES      
                                              NO. OF EMPLOYEES      
                                              NO. OF EMPLOYEES      
NO. OF PROFESSIONS                                                  
(Definition-a vocation or occupation requiring advanced education/training/
involving intellectual skills. See Ord. 4-1988, Pg. l, Section I,A)
TELEPHONE NO.                                                       
NATURE OF BUSINESS/OR BUSINESSES                                    
                                                                    
                                                                    
DATE OPERATION/OR DELIVERY BEGAN IN OWINGSVILLE, KY.                
IS BUSINESS LICENSE APPLIED FOR PROPERLY ZONED   YES        NO      
ACCORDING TO THE ZONING CODE?
                                                                                                                                            
BUSINESS LICENSES - DUE ON OR BEFORE 5/1/88      EXPIRE 7/1/89
10% PENALTY ADDED AFTER 5/1/88
FEES CHARGED:
                                                Annually
Professionals                                   $ 75.00
Part-Time Self Employed                         25.00
Full-Time Self Employed                         50.00
0-6 Employees*                                  50.00
7-12 Employees*                                 125.00
13 and Over Employees*                          200.00
Itinerant Salesman                              75.00
(or $15.00 per day per person)
*Any person on payroll; wholesalers; deliveries
 
COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCE # 4-1988
I CERTIFY THAT THIS IS A TRUE STATEMENT                             
                     SIGNATURE
DATE                         
(Ord. 4-1988, passed 3-7-88)
APPENDIX B: COPY OF LICENSE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/2c4eeb73d17e36aa13b1259c173c5f90e2f30d82/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1977.jpg]
(Ord. 4-1987, passed 3-7-88)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "BUSINESS." The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   "GOODS." Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   "ITINERANT MERCHANT." Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   "PEDDLER."
      (1)   Any person who travels from place to place by any means carrying
goods for sale, or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Any person who, without traveling from place to place, sells or
offers goods for sale from any public place within the city.
   A person who is a peddler is not an itinerant merchant.
   "SOLICITOR." Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future.
   A person who is a solicitor is not a peddler.
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set forth
in
Chapter 110 of this code or as otherwise established from time to time by the
City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the City Clerk/Treasurer. This application shall be signed by
the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application the following:
      (1)   If required by the city, copies of all printed advertising proposed
to be used in connection with the applicant's business;
      (2)   If required by the city, credentials from the person, if any, for
which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant to act
as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts; or
      (6)   Has an unsatisfactory moral character will constitute valid reasons
for disapproval of an application.
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk/Treasurer after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license to each peddler or
solicitor licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words
"Licensed Peddler" or "Licensed Solicitor," the expiration date of the license,
and the number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee
during such time as he is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each day's violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Bond
   
112.03   Register to be kept; daily reports
   
112.04   Receipt to be given for each article; sale of article
   
112.05   Maximum interest, resale price
   
112.06   Receipt to be given for payment of loan
   
112.07   Prohibited activities
   
112.08   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "PAWNBROKER." Any person who loans money on deposit of personal property;
deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price; makes a public display at his place of
business of the sign generally used by pawnbrokers to denote their business; or
who publicly exhibits a sign advertising money to loan on personal property or
deposit.
(KRS 226.010)
§ 112.02 BOND.
   Every person to whom a city license is granted to carry on the business of a
pawnbroker shall annually enter into bond to the city, with good and sufficient
surety to be approved by City Council, in the penal sum of $1000. This bond
shall be conditioned that he will observe the provisions of this chapter and
all ordinances and laws in force in the city not inconsistent with this
chapter.
(KRS 226.020)
§ 112.03 REGISTER TO BE KEPT; DAILY REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a register of all loans and
purchases of all articles by the pawnbroker from the general public. The
register shall:
         (a)   Be reported to an online, Internet-based transaction recording
service accessible to law enforcement agencies;
         (b)   Show the dates and the amounts of all loans or purchases by the
pawnbroker from the general public, and the names and the following for all
persons who have left any property that has been pawned or sold:
            1.   A driver's license number;
            2.   Another state or federally issued picture identification card
number; or
            3.   If the identification specified in divisions (A)(2)(a) and (b)
above is not available, a Social Security number may be accepted.
         (c)   Be open to the inspection of any law enforcement officer of the
state when in the discharge of his or her official duty; and
         (d)   Contain a full description of all property purchased by the
pawnbroker from the general public or received on deposit as collateral or
security. When requested by law enforcement and pertaining to an investigation,
a photograph of the merchandise shall be made available to law enforcement if
the property is still in the possession of the pawnbroker. For purposes of this
division, "FULL DESCRIPTION" includes but is not limited to:
            1.   Make;
            2.   Model;
            3.   Color;
            4.   Size;
            5.   Manufacturer;
            6.   Vintage; and
            7.   Distinguishing marks or characteristics.
      (2)   When secondhand merchandise is sold to a pawnbroker, the
merchandise shall be held for a minimum of twelve (12) days before being
resold.
      (3)   Prior to the release of property to a representative of law
enforcement, the law enforcement representative shall provide to the pawnbroker
a case report or other documentation that the item has been reported as stolen.
(KRS 226.040)
   (B)   Every pawnbroker shall, by 11:00 a.m. each day, make available to the
Chief of Police a true and correct written report of all goods received by him
or her, whether by pawn or purchase, during the 24 hours preceding each report.
The report shall describe the goods as accurately as practicable. The Chief of
Police shall furnish blanks for these reports. (KRS 226.070)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.04 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR EACH ARTICLE; SALE OF ARTICLE.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall give a plain written or printed ticket for the
loan to the person negotiating or selling, and a plain written or printed
receipt of the articles that have been purchased or upon which money is loaned,
having on each a copy of the entries required by §
112.03(A) to be kept in his register. He shall not make any charge for the
ticket or receipt.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may sell any article pawned after the expiration of 60
days from the maturity of the loan. However, not less than ten days before
making the sale, the pawnbroker shall give notice to the person by whom the
article was pawned by mail addressed to the post office address of that person
as shown on the pawnbroker's register, notifying such person that, unless he
redeems the article within ten days from the date of mailing of the notice, the
article will be sold.
(KRS 226.050)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.05 MAXIMUM INTEREST, RESALE PRICE.
   Any pawnbroker as defined in §
112.01, may, in loaning money on deposit of personal property, charge, contract
for, or receive interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month on the unpaid
principal balance of the loan, and may charge, contract for, and receive a
reasonable fee, not to exceed one-fifth of the value of the loan per month, for
investigating the title, storing and insuring the property, closing the loan,
making daily reports to local law enforcement officers if required by §
112.03, and for other expenses, losses, and incidental costs associated with
servicing such loans. Further, this fee, when made and collected, shall not be
deemed as interest for any purpose of law. No pawnbroker shall directly or
indirectly charge, receive, or contract for any interest or consideration
greater than that allowed by this section.
(KRS 226.080)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.06 RECEIPT TO BE GIVEN FOR PAYMENT OF LOAN.
   Every pawnbroker, upon receiving any payment of money from a borrower, shall
give to that person a plain and complete receipt for such payment, specifying
separately the amount applied to principal and the amount applied to interest.
In a case where the pawnbroker has purchased personal property under an
agreement to sell it back at a stipulated price, the pawnbroker shall, on
receiving any payment of money from the person from whom the property was
purchased, give that person a receipt stating the original purchase price, the
stipulated resale price, and the amount received.
(KRS 226.090)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No pawnbroker shall receive, by way of either pledge or pawn, any article
whatever from a minor at any time nor from any person between 8:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m.
(KRS 226.030)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided by KRS 226.100. However, county police, for the purpose of
locating stolen goods, may carry out the provisions of KRS 226.060 within the
city.
(KRS 226.100)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any pawnbroker or pawnbroker's clerk who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter for which no penalty is otherwise provided shall,
upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $500, and his license may be forfeited to the city.
(KRS 226.990(1))
   (B)   Any pawnbroker who violates any of the provisions of §
112.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $20
nor more than $100.
(KRS 226.990(3))
CHAPTER 113: INSURANCE COMPANIES
Section
   
113.01   Imposition of license fee
   
113.02   Amount of fee for companies issuing life insurance
   
113.03   Amount of fee for companies issuing policies other than life insurance
   
113.04   Due date; interest
   
113.05   Written breakdown of collections
§ 113.01 IMPOSITION OF LICENSE FEE.
   Effective as of July 1, 1987, there is hereby imposed on each insurance
company a license fee for the privilege of engaging in the business of
insurance within the corporate limits of the city, on a calendar-year basis.
§ 113.02 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING LIFE INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues life
insurance policies on the lives of persons residing within the corporate limits
of the city shall be 8% of the first year's premiums actually collected within
each calendar quarter by reason of the issuance of such policies.
§ 113.03 AMOUNT OF FEE FOR COMPANIES ISSUING POLICIES OTHER THAN LIFE
INSURANCE.
   The license fee imposed upon each insurance company which issues any
insurance policy which is not a life insurance policy shall be 8% of the
premiums actually collected within each calendar quarter by reason of the
issuance of such policies on risks located within the corporate limits of the
city on those classes of business which such company is authorized to transact,
less all premiums returned to policyholders; however, any license fee or tax
imposed upon premium receipts shall not include premiums received for insuring
employers against liability for personal injuries to their employees, or death
caused thereby, under the provisions of the Workers' Compensation Act and shall
not include premiums received on policies of group health insurance provided
for state employees under KRS 18A.225(2) and 18A.228 or the premiums paid to
any state employee benefit fund created pursuant to KRS Chapter 18A for the
purpose of providing health benefits to state employees.
§ 113.04 DUE DATE; INTEREST.
   All license fees imposed by this chapter shall be due no later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter. License fees which are not paid on or
before the due date shall bear interest at the tax interest rate as defined in
KRS 131.010(6).
§ 113.05 WRITTEN BREAKDOWN OF COLLECTIONS.
   Every insurance company subject to the license fees imposed by this chapter
shall annually, by March 31, furnish the city a written breakdown of all
collections in the preceding calendar year for the following categories of
insurance:
   (A)   Casualty.
   (B)   Automobile.
   (C)   Inland marine.
   (D)   Fire and allied perils.
   (E)   Health.
   (F)   Life.
CHAPTER 114: ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Hours of operation; applicability
   
114.03   Exceptions
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "CLOSED."
      (1)   The establishment is to be vacated: Lights out and doors locked.
      (2)   Persons engaged in cleaning of premise shall constitute an
exception of lights out; doors shall remain locked: and no playing activity
shall be permitted. Property Owner has the right to be present on the premises,
but shall not conduct any paid activity.
   "PLACES OF ENTERTAINMENT." Those businesses, providing entertainment or
recreation, including but not limited to dance halls, music barns, night clubs,
theaters, arcades, poolrooms, and other similar businesses.
(Ord. 3-1994, passed 7-11-94)
§ 114.02 HOURS OF OPERATION; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Places of entertainment located within the city limits of the City of
Owingsville, Kentucky, shall not open for business before the hour of 8:00
a.m., Monday through Saturday and shall close at or before the hour of 12:00
mid-night, Sunday shall open at 1:00 p.m. and shall close at or before the hour
of 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   This chapter shall also apply to circuses, carnivals, and any other
traveling or transient show or exposition.
(Ord. 3-1994, passed 7-11-94)
§ 114.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to revivals, tent meetings, concerts,
plays, or other activities conducted by a religious or charitable organization
for the purpose of furthering the activities of such organizations or raising
funds for such organization.
   (B)   The opening and closing times set forth in this chapter do not apply
to social activities or entertainment activities conducted by educational
institutions including but not limited to athletic events, proms, or dances,
plays, concerts or any other activity sponsored by an educational institution
or by an organization or students acting with the permission and consent of the
educational institution in which they are enrolled.
(Ord. 3-1994, passed 7-11-94)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   KRS A436.320 which pertains to recording and carding minors (under
eighteen (18) years of age) and states the penalty for violations.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than $25.00 or more than $50.00 plus all applicable court costs.
(Ord. 3-1994, passed 7-11-94)
CHAPTER 115: BANK FRANCHISE AND LOCAL DEPOSIT TAX
Section
   
115.01   Imposition of tax
   
115.02   Tax due
   
115.03   Lien imposed
   
115.04   Use of tax
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed on all Financial Institutions", as defined in KRS
Chapter 136, located within the corporate limits of the city for the 1996 tax
year and all subsequent years, a franchise tax at the rate of 0.025% on all
deposits, as defined in KRS Chapter 136, maintained by such financial
institutions.
(Ord. 13-1996, passed 11-11-96)
§ 115.02 TAX DUE.
   (A)   For transition purposes, the 1996 tax year will be treated differently
in terms of collection of taxes than for all subsequent years. For the 1996 tax
year, the following timetable is hereby established the city will issue tax
bills to financial institutions no later than May 1, 1997. Payment of the tax
shall be due with a two (2%) discount by May 31, 1997, or without the discount
by June 30, 1997.
   (B)   For all tax years subsequent to the 1996 tax year, the following
timetable is hereby established the city will issue tax bills to financial
institutions no later than December 1 of each year. Payment of the tax shall be
due with two percent (2%) discount by December 31 of each year, or without the
discount by January 31 of each year.
(Ord. 13-1996, passed 11-11-96)
§ 115.03 LIEN IMPOSED.
   The city shall have a lien for taxes on the property assessed for taxes to
the extent allowed under KRS 134.420.
(Ord. 13-1996, passed 11-11-96)
§ 115.04 USE OF TAX.
   All moneys collected pursuant to these sections shall be paid into the
general fund of the city to be used for the payment of proper expenditures as
determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 13-1996, passed 11-11-96)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   All taxes due in accordance with these sections which are not paid before
June 30, 1997, for tax year 1996, or which are not paid before January 31, for
all subsequent years tax years shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject
to a penalty of 6% and shall bear interest at the rate of 10% per annum.
(Ord. 13-1996, passed 11-11-96)
CHAPTER 116: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Application of provisions
   
116.03   Permit required
   
116.04   Application for permit
   
116.05   Duty of City License Inspector
   
116.06   Registered agent
   
116.07   Permit fee; bond
   
116.08   Use of permit; limits; display; hearing in case of denial
   
116.09   Peddling in public square prohibited; exceptions
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "Transient business." Any business conducted for the sale or offer for sale
of goods, wares or merchandise which is carried on in any building, structure,
motor vehicle or real estate in one locality for a period of less than six (6)
continuous uninterrupted months in each year.
   "Transient merchant." Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or other
entity which engages in, does or transacts any temporary or transient business
in the city, either in one locality or in traveling from place to place in the
city, offering for sale or selling goods, wares, merchandise or commodities of
any kind, and includes those merchants who, for the purpose of carrying on such
business, hire, lease, use or occupy any building structure, motor vehicle or
real estate.
   "City license inspector." An individual designated to administer the
application process, and assist in the enforcement of this chapter. If the
Council does not designate an individual as same, then the City Police shall
fulfill the duties of same.
(Ord. 5-1998, passed 7-20-98)
§ 116.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions shall not apply to:
      (A)   Sales at wholesale to retail merchants by commercial selling agents
in the usual course of business;
      (B)   Wholesale trade shows or conventions;
      (C)   Sales of goods, wares or merchandise by sample catalog or brochure
for future delivery;
      (D)   Participants in fairs and convention center activities when the
participants' businesses are conducted primarily for amusement or
entertainment;
      (E)   Any general sale, fair, auction or bazaar sponsored by any
religious, educational, public service or charitable organization;
      (F)   Garage sales held on residential premises devoted to residential
use;
      (G)   Sales of crafts or items made by hand and sold or offered for sale
by the person making such crafts or handmade items;
      (H)   Sales of locally grown agricultural products;
      (I)   Sheriffs, constables, or other public or court officers, or any
other person or persons acting under the direction or authority of any court,
state or federal, selling goods, wares or merchandise in the course of their
official duties;
      (J)   Flea market vendors who can demonstrate compliance with this
chapter;
      (K)   Professionals and occupants licensed and regulated by the state
when the activities are performed within the scope of their respective
statutory and regulatory authority; and
      (L)   Temporary sales at another location by businesses with a permanent
business location within the city.
(Ord. 5-1998, passed 7-20-98)
§ 116.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any transient merchant to transact business in this city
unless such merchant and the owners of any goods, wares or merchandise to be
offered for sale or sold, if such are not owned by the merchant, shall have
first secured a permit from the City License Inspector and shall have otherwise
complied with the requirements.
(Ord. 5-1998, passed 7-20-98)
§ 116.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any transient merchant desiring to transact business in this city shall make
application for and obtain a permit. Application to be made thirty (30) days
prior to effective date and the City Clerk/Treasurer will inform the City
Council of all such requests at the City Council meetings. The application for
permit shall be designed and distributed by the city license fee division,
shall be filed by the transient merchant with the City License Inspector and
shall include but not be limited to the following information:
   (A)   The name and permanent address of the transient merchant making the
application, and if the applicant is a firm or corporation, the name and
address of the members of the firm or the officers of the corporation;
   (B)   If the applicant is a corporation, there shall be stated on the
application form the date of incorporation, the state of incorporation, and if
the applicant is a corporation formed in a state other than Kentucky, the date
on which such corporation qualified to transact business as a foreign
corporation in this state;
   (C)   A statement showing the kind of business proposed to be conducted, the
length of time for which the applicant desires to transact such business and
the location of the proposed place of business;
   (D)   An inventory of the aggregate value of any goods, wares or merchandise
to be offered for sale during the permit period;
   (E)   A statement that the applicant has acquired all other required city,
county and state permits and licenses;
   (F)   The applicant's sales and use tax permit number or temporary vendor's
registration number;
   (G)   The name and permanent address of the transient merchant's registered
agent or office; and
   (H)   Evidence of security as outlined. The absence of any of the above
information shall result in the denial of such permit by the City License
Inspector.
(Ord. 5-1998, passed 7-20-98)
§ 116.05 DUTY OF CITY LICENSE INSPECTOR.
   The City License Inspector shall forward a copy of each approved application
to the City Clerk/Treasurer and to the office of the Chief of Police within
twenty-four (24) hours of approval.
(Ord. 5-1998, passed 7-20-98)
§ 116.06 REGISTERED AGENT.
   (A)   Each registered agent designated by a transient merchant in the
application for a permit shall be a resident of the state and shall be agent of
the transient merchant upon whom any process, notice, or demand required or
permitted by law to be served upon the transient merchant may be served. The
registered agent shall agree in writing to act as such agent and a copy of the
agreement to so act shall be filed with the application for a permit.
   (B)   If any transient merchant doing business or having done business in
the city shall fail to have or maintain a registered agent in the state or if
such registered agent cannot be found at his permanent address, the secretary
of state shall be agent of such transient merchant for service of all process,
notices or demands. No registered agent shall be deemed to be a seller of
goods.
(Ord. 5-1998, passed 7-20-98)
§ 116.07 PERMIT FEE; BOND.
   (A)   Each application for a transient merchant permit shall be accompanied
by a occupational fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) to be retained and
credited to the General Revenue fund for the city. In addition, any applicant
who will be selling goods or wares shall secure and submit evidence to the City
Clerk/Treasurer of a five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or five percent (5%) of
security, cash bond or surety bond in the amount of the retail value of any
goods, wares or merchandise to be offered for sale, whichever sum is greater.
Such evidence of security shall be held by the City Clerk/Treasurer and she
shall issue a certificate of security to be used by the applicant as evidence
of security.
   (B)   The term of the transient merchant permit shall be for the length of
time the merchant conducts an active business but shall in no event exceed
ninety (90) days.
   (C)   The surety bond required by this section shall be in favor of the city
and shall assure the payment by the applicant of all taxes that may be due from
the applicant to the city or any political subdivision of the city, the payment
of any fines that may be assessed against the applicant or its agents or
employees for violation of these provisions, and for the satisfaction of all
judgments that may be rendered against the transient merchant or its agents or
employees in any cause of action commenced by any purchaser of goods, wares or
merchandise within one year from the date of the sale by such transient
merchant.
   (D)   The bond shall be maintained so long as the transient merchant
conducts business in the city and for a period of one year after the
termination of such business and shall be released only when the transient
merchant furnishes satisfactory proof to the License Inspector that it has
satisfied all claims of purchasers of goods, wares or merchandise from such
merchant, and that all state, county and other local sales taxes and fees and
other taxes and fees have been paid.
   (E)   An ending inventory clearly stating the total of sales within the city
limits accompanied by sales invoice receipts, prices and evidence of sales tax
paid, plus whatever other information the City License Inspector or City Clerk/
Treasurer might require to accurately calculate the proper taxes due to the
city. This to be paid at the end of each sales period within the city before
the transient merchant leaves the city.
(Ord. 5-1998, passed 7-20-98)
§ 116.08 USE OF PERMIT; LIMITS; DISPLAY; HEARING IN CASE OF DENIAL.
   A transient business permit shall be used hereunder only when all
requirements of above have been met. Such permit shall not be transferable,
shall be valid only within the territorial limits of the city, and shall be
valid only for a maximum period of ninety (90) days or until sale is
terminated. A permit so issued shall be valid for only one person unless such
person shall be a member of a partnership or employee of a firm or corporation
obtaining such permit. The permit shall at all times be conspicuously displayed
at any place that the transient merchant is transacting business.
   If the City License Inspector refuses to issue the permit, the applicant may
apply to the City Council for a hearing. The City License Inspector shall
notify the City Attorney who shall appear in opposition to the issuance of the
permit.
(Ord. 5-1998, passed 7-20-98)
§ 116.09 PEDDLING IN PUBLIC SQUARE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to peddle or
sell any goods, wares or merchandise or any tickets, coupons, or receipts
representing or redeemable in service, photographs, works of art, magazine
subscriptions, or merchandise in that part of the public streets and sidewalks
of the city, known as the public square or on any street or sidewalk within two
(2) blocks thereof.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the sale of newspapers
or farmers selling their own products.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this section, persons or
entities desirous of selling any of the material described in division (A)
above may obtain from the City License Inspector a permit not to exceed three
(3) consecutive days in duration to engage in such sales in connection with a
community festival, parade, craft fair or "Sidewalk Days" promotion. The permit
application shall be on a form to be prescribed by the City License Inspector,
and shall require such information thereon as the City License Inspector deems
reasonably necessary for the adequate and proper enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 5-1998, passed 7-20-98)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The City Attorney, or other attorney as directed by the Council, may
enforce these provisions by civil action for injunctive relief in the circuit
court of his county. In such action to obtain that injunction it shall be
sufficient to allege and prove that a violation has occurred or is about to
occur, and it shall not be necessary to allege or prove that any person has
been damaged or sustained any loss as a result of any violation.
   (B)   When these provisions are enforced by the City Attorney, or other
attorney as directed by the Council, through civil action, he may ask for and
the court may assess a civil penalty for the benefit of the city, not to exceed
the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), this penalty to be in lieu of all
penalties set forth.
(Ord. 5-1998, passed 7-20-98)
CHAPTER 117: PAIN CLINICS
Section
   
117.01   Operation of pain clinics banned
§ 117.01 OPERATION OF PAIN CLINICS BANNED.
   (A)   Any pain clinic doing business in the city shall be unlawful and shall
be considered a public nuisance, subject to closure and injunctive limitations
by any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The operation of an such pain clinic referred to above shall be a
violation punishable by a $5,000 fine for each day in operation.
   (C)   A "PAIN CLINIC" as used in this section is defined as follows: A
business engaging in the distribution of narcotic pain medication which:
      (1)   Is not affiliated with a local hospital doing business within a 100
mile radius of the city; and
      (2)   A business that generates more than 50% of its revenue from the
meeting with patients and prescribing narcotic pain medication for the
patients; and
      (3)   A business that appears to have a disproportionate amount of
patients receiving pain medication as opposed to receiving other medical
services.
   (D)   In making the determination as to whether or not any such business is
believed to be unlawfully operating a pain clinic as defined herein, the city
may consider the criteria outlined in division (C) above and may also consider
any and all other information which the city believes and deems relevant
regarding the issue of whether any such business has or in fact attempting the
operate and improper pain clinic, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Whether the business at issued has a disproportionately high amount
of payment for its services in cash;
      (2)   Whether the business in question provides prescription narcotic
medication for a disproportionately large number of residents not living in the
immediate city or county area;
      (3)   The affiliation or lack of affiliation at issue with organizations
or individuals providing other recognized methods of legitimate medical
treatment for sick or injured individuals; and
      (4)   Such other information as may be deemed relevant by any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2-2012, passed 4-9-12)
CHAPTER 118: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
118.001   Purpose
   
118.002   Definitions
   
118.003   Scope
   
118.004   Implementation of ordinance provisions
   
118.005   Enforcement
   
118.006   Mandatory responsible beverage service training
   
118.007   Malt beverage KEG registration
   
118.008   Immunity from prosecution for alcohol related offenses
Adoption of Comprehensive Regulatory Ordinance; City Licenses
   
118.020   City licenses
   
118.021   Expiration of license; proration of fees
   
118.022   Payment of license fees; delinquencies
   
118.023   Refund of fees
   
118.024   Regulatory license fees pursuant to state law
   
118.025   Payment of regulatory fees
City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator; Appeals
   
118.040   Office established
   
118.041   Compensation
   
118.042   Functions
   
118.043   Approval of regulations
   
118.044   Qualifications
   
118.045   Authority
   
118.046   Warrantless inspections
   
118.047   Fingerprinting
   
118.048   Oath
   
118.049   Appeals
Application for License; Maintenance of License
   
118.060   Advertisement
   
118.061   Application
   
118.062   Other conditions
   
118.063   Form of license
   
118.064   Change of information
   
118.065   Renewal of license
   
118.066   Lost or destroyed license
   
118.067   Revocation or suspension
   
118.068   Proceedings for revocation or suspension of license; notice and
opportunity to contest; appeal; effect of revocation or suspension
   
118.069   Transfer or assignment
   
118.070   Refusal of license; guidelines for approval of quota licenses
   
118.071   Review of license; books, records and reports
   
118.072   Dormancy
Conditions, Prohibitions and Restrictions
   
118.085   General conditions, prohibitions and restrictions
   
118.086   Hours for sale and delivery
   
118.087   Possession by minors prohibited; no person shall aid possession by
minors
   
118.088   Consumption on licensed package premises prohibited; exceptions
   
118.089   Congregating on certain ABC licensed premises and vacant premises
prohibited
Signs and Advertising
   
118.100   Signs and advertising generally
   
118.101   Advertising on municipally owned property prohibited
   
118.102   Certain other advertising prohibited
 
   
118.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 118.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform regulations and
requirements for the licensing and regulation of the manufacture, trafficking
and sales of alcoholic beverages within the corporate limits of the City of
Owingsville, Kentucky pursuant to authorization of KRS Chapters 241 through 244
of the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The definition of the words used throughout this chapter, unless the context
requires otherwise, shall have the same meaning as those set out in KRS
Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244, and all amendments and supplements thereto.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.003 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be construed to apply to the manufacture, traffic
and sales of malt beverages, distilled spirits and wine where the context
permits such application. Nothing in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the
licensee, or the owner, proprietor, employee, agent, or person in charge of any
licensed premises where alcoholic beverages are sold from the restrictions,
requirements and penalties of any other ordinance or ordinances of the City of
Owingsville, Kentucky (the City) or of any statute or regulation of the state
relating to the manufacture, traffic or sales of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   The provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Laws of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky as set out in KRS Chapters 241, 242, 243 and 244, as
well as all related state regulations, and all amendments and supplements to
the statutes and regulations, are adopted and made a part of this chapter so
far as applicable to this chapter except as otherwise lawfully provided for
herein.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.004 IMPLEMENTATION OF ORDINANCE PROVISIONS.
   From time to time, the Owingsville City Council may by municipal order
promulgate such rules and regulations and may publish and utilize such forms
and other documents as, in its discretion, may be necessary for the proper
implementation of this chapter.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   City police officers and the Administrator are authorized to enforce this
chapter for alleged violations.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.006 MANDATORY RESPONSIBLE BEVERAGE SERVICE TRAINING.
   (A)   All persons employed in the selling and serving of alcoholic beverages
shall participate in and complete the STAR (Server Training in Alcohol
Regulations) beverage service training program.
   (B)   All persons required to complete training under this chapter shall
complete that training within ninety (90) days of the date on which the person
first becomes subject to the training requirement. When a new business is
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages all employees must be trained prior to
the opening of the business.
   (C)   Each licensee shall be responsible for compliance with the training
requirements and shall maintain for inspection by the Administrator a record or
file on each employee that shall contain the pertinent training information.
Each premises licensed under this chapter must at all times when alcoholic
beverages are being served have at least one (1) person currently certified in
responsible beverage service training on duty.
   (D)   All persons completing the training required by this section shall be
recertified in responsible beverage service training from a program approved by
the city not less than once every three years thereafter.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.007 MALT BEVERAGE KEG REGISTRATION.
   (A)   As used in this section, "KEG" is defined as a container designed and
capable of holding six (6) or more gallons of malt beverage.
   (B)   All retail licensees operating within the city who sell malt beverages
in kegs for consumption off the premises of the licensee shall attach a
numbered identification tag or other device as provided by the city to each keg
at the time of sale and shall require the purchaser to complete and sign a keg
registration form for the keg stating the following:
      (1)   The purchaser is of legal age to purchase, possess and use the malt
beverage;
      (2)   The purchaser is not purchasing the keg for resale and will not
allow any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to consume the malt beverage;
      (3)   The purchaser will not remove, obliterate or allow to be removed or
obliterated the identification tag;
      (4)   The purchaser will state the property address where the keg will be
consumed and physically located; and
      (5)   The purchaser is aware of his/her duty to maintain a copy of the
keg registration form visible and readily accessible from the location of the
keg.
   (C)   The licensee under this section shall obtain the name, address and
telephone number of the purchaser and shall require the purchaser to produce a
valid driver's license number and, if that is not available, to produce at
least one other valid form of identification.
   (D)   The licensee shall retain copies of the keg registration forms for a
period of one year and shall make the keg registration form available for
inspection by state and local alcoholic beverage control officers and other
enforcement officers.
   (E)   The keg registration form shall be forwarded to the Administrator
within five (5) working days in all situations when the keg is not returned or
is returned with the identification tag removed or obliterated.
   (F)   The Administrator is authorized to develop appropriate rules and
regulations and to develop and make available forms for the identification tags
and keg registration forms.
   (G) All licensees that sell or offer kegs for sale shall post on the
licensed premises a notice provided by the city concerning the provisions of
this section.
   (H) It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer kegs for sale
without the identification tags attached and the keg registration form
completed. It shall also be unlawful for any person to remove or to obliterate
the identification tag or to fail to have the declaration form visible and
readily accessible from the location of the keg. The penalties for violation of
this section shall be the penalties set out in this chapter which authorize
license revocation or suspension. In addition, licensees violating this section
shall be subject to appropriate alcoholic beverage control administrative
remedies.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.008 IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION FOR ALCOHOL RELATED OFFENSES.
   A person shall be immune from prosecution for the criminal offenses
identified in division (D) of this section if:
   (A)   A law enforcement officer has contact with the person because the
person:
      (1)   Requests emergency medical assistance for himself or herself or
another person;
      (2)   Acts in concert with another person who requests emergency medical
assistance; or
      (3)   Appears to be in need of emergency medical assistance and is the
individual for whom the request is made;
   (B)   The request is made for an individual who reasonably appears to be in
need of medical assistance due to alcohol consumption; and
   (C)   The person described in division (A) of this section, if physically
capable:
      (1)   Provides his or her own full name if requested by emergency medical
assistance personnel or law enforcement officers;
      (2)   Provides any other relevant information requested by the law
enforcement officer that is known to such person;
      (3)   Remains with, or is, the individual who reasonably appears to be in
need of medical assistance due to alcohol consumption until professional
emergency medical assistance is provided; and
      (4)   Cooperates with emergency medical assistance personnel and law
enforcement officers.
   (D)   A person who meets the qualifications set forth in divisions (A)
through (C) of this section shall be immune from criminal prosecution for the
following offenses:
      (1)   Alcohol intoxication under KRS 222.202(1);
      (2)   Drinking alcoholic beverages in a public place under KRS 222.202
(2);
      (3)   Offenses related to possession of alcoholic beverages by a minor
under twenty-one (21) years of age under KRS 244.085; and
      (4)   Providing alcohol to minors under twenty-one (21) years of age or
assisting minors under twenty-one (21) years of age to purchase alcohol under
KRS 244.085 or KRS 530.070.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE REGULATORY ORDINANCE; CITY LICENSES
§ 118.020 CITY LICENSES.
   In accordance with KRS 243.070, the city imposes license fees as set out
below for each license authorized to be issued pursuant to KRS Chapter 243. In
the event KRS 243.070 shall hereafter be amended to authorize additional city
licenses or fees, the fees for each city license shall be the maximum fee
provided in the statute as amended.
Quota Retail Package License                     $1,000 per annum
Quota Retail Drink License                       $1,000 per annum
NQ Type 1 Retail Drink License                   $2,000 per annum
NQ Type 2 Retail Drink License                   $1,000 per annum
NQ Type 3 Retail Drink License                   $300 per annum
NQ Type 4 Retail Malt Beverage Drink License     $200 per annum
NQ Malt Beverage Package License                 $200 per annum
Limited Restaurant License                       $1,200 per annum
Limited Golf Course License                      $1,200 per annum
Caterer's License                                $800 per annum
Special Temporary License for Qualifying Event   $167 per event
Special Distilled Spirits and Wine Temp. License $100 per event
Special Sunday Retail Drink License              $300 per annum
Extended Hours Supplemental - Sunday Drink Lic.  $2,000 per annum
Authorized Public Consumption License            $250 per annum
Qualified Historic Site License                  $1,030 per annum
Distiller's License                              $500 per annum
Rectifier's License                              $3,000 per annum
Wholesaler's Distilled Spirits and Wine License  $3,000 per annum
Bottling House License                           $1,000 per annum
Brewer's License                                 $500 per annum
Microbrewery License                             $500 per annum
Malt Beverage Distributor's License              $400 per annum
Supplemental Bar License                         **see explanation below
**The fee for each of the first five (5) supplemental bar licenses shall be
the same as the fee for the primary drink license. There shall be no charge
for each supplemental license issued in excess of five (5) to the same
licensee at the same premises. The holder of a Nonquota (NQ) Retail Malt
Beverage Package license may obtain a Nonquota (NQ) Type 4 Malt Beverage Drink
license for a fee of fifty dollars ($50). The holder of a Nonquota (NQ) Type 4
Malt Beverage drink license may obtain a Nonquota (NQ) Retail Malt Beverage
Package license for a fee of fifty dollars ($50).
 
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.021 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEES.
   (A)   All city licenses, except temporary licenses, shall begin on May 1 of
any year and shall expire on April 30 of the following year.
   (B)   Any license issued after May 1 of any year shall be assessed a fee
which is based on the pro rata portion of the remainder of the license period;
however, the cost of any license shall not be less than one-half (½) the amount
of the full fee for an annual license of that type.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.022 PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES; DELINQUENCIES.
   No licensee shall enter into or begin operating any business for which a
license is required by this chapter until the license fee has been paid in
full. The fee for renewal of any license shall be paid with the renewal
application. Failure to pay any license fee within ten (10) days after it
becomes due shall result in a penalty equal to ten percent (10%) of the license
fee. Any licensee failing to pay the fees, including penalties, within ten (10)
days after such fees are due may be subject to revocation of the license and to
other penalties as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.023 REFUND OF FEES.
   Should any licensee be prohibited from conducting the licensed business for
the full period covered by the license because of any changes that may
hereafter be made in the laws of the Commonwealth with reference to alcoholic
beverages or other cause outside the licensee's control, then the City shall
refund to licensee the proportionate part of the license fee for the period
during which the licensee is prevented from carrying on the business if the
licensee provides sufficient proof to the Administrator that such period of
inactivity was not the fault of the licensee or the result of a revocation,
suspension or other wrongdoing by licensee, or an agent or employee of the
licensee. In the event that a violation of state law, regulation, or this
chapter results in the suspension or revocation of the license, the city shall
not be required to refund any portion of the license fee.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.024 REGULATORY LICENSE FEES PURSUANT TO STATE LAW.
   Pursuant to KRS 243.075(1) there is hereby imposed a regulatory license fee
upon the gross receipts of each establishment licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages. The regulatory license fee shall be five percent (5%) of gross sales
of all alcoholic beverages. The regulatory license fee imposed under this
section is reasonably estimated to fully reimburse the City's estimated costs
of additional policing, regulatory, and administrative expenses related to the
sale of alcoholic beverages. The City Council shall adopt at the budget
adoption for each subsequent fiscal year, such annual rates for regulatory
license fees as shall be reasonably estimated to ensure full reimbursement to
the City for the cost of any additional policing, regulatory, or administrative
expense related to the sale of alcoholic beverages. Should the City fail to
address the regulatory license fee in any budget, then the regulatory license
fee shall remain at the level at which it was last fixed until such time as the
City Council shall adjust the fee. Regulatory license fees under this section
shall be in addition to any other taxes, fees, or licenses permitted by law,
except that a credit against payment of a regulatory license fee shall be
allowed in an amount equal to any licenses or fees imposed by the City pursuant
to KRS 243.070. The City Clerk shall immediately notify the ABC Board of the
amount of license fees fixed under this section.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.025 PAYMENT OF REGULATORY FEES.
   Payment of license fees and regulatory fees shall be remitted to the City
Clerk. Regulatory fees imposed in accordance with KRS 243.075(1) shall be used
for the purpose of fully reimbursing the city for the estimated cost of any
additional policing, regulatory or administrative expense related to the sale
of alcoholic beverages in the city. All regulatory license fees shall be in
addition to any other taxes, fees or licenses permitted by law, except that a
credit against regulatory license fees in the city shall be allowed in an
amount equal to any license fee imposed by the city pursuant to KRS 243.070.
Regulatory fees shall accrue and be paid on a monthly basis. Monthly regulatory
fees shall be calculated based upon gross receipts from the sale of alcoholic
beverages of each establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages. Monthly
regulatory fees shall include regulatory fees based upon gross receipts from
the sale of alcoholic beverages starting from and including the first calendar
day of each month and for each day of the month thereafter including the last
calendar day of each month. Regulatory fees which accrue in any given month are
due and shall be paid to the city no later than by the twentieth (20th) day of
each month immediately following each calendar month in which the fees accrued.
If the twentieth (20th) day of the month falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or state
or federal holiday the deadline for payment of monthly regulatory fees shall be
the next business day of the city government. Failure to pay such monthly
remittance within ten (10) days of the due date constitutes a violation and
will subject the licensee to suspension or revocation. Penalties for failure to
pay monthly remittance by the due date are as follows: If the monthly
regulatory fees are paid in full within five (5) days of the due date, the
licensee will only be charged a $25.00 "late fee." If monthly regulatory fees
and the $25.00 late fee are not paid in full within five (5) days following the
due date to pay the monthly regulatory fees, an additional late fee of $25.00
shall be charged to the licensee for each day following the fifth (5th) day
from the due date of the monthly regulatory fees.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
CITY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL ADMINISTRATOR; APPEALS
§ 118.040 OFFICE ESTABLISHED.
   The office of City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator (the
Administrator) is hereby created and established. The City Mayor will serve as
the City Alcoholic Beverage Control Administrator pursuant to KRS 241.160(2).
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20; Am. Ord. 6-2022, passed 4-11-22)
§ 118.041 COMPENSATION.
   The salary for the office of City A.B.C. Administrator shall be set and
reviewed periodically for any adjustments by the Owingsville City Council. The
salary shall be paid from the City Alcohol Regulatory Fee account.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.042 FUNCTIONS.
   The functions of the Administrator shall be the same with respect to city
licenses and regulations as the functions of the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Board of the Commonwealth of Kentucky (the ABC Board) with respect to state
licenses and regulations, except that no amendment to these regulations
proposed by the Administrator may be less stringent than the statutes relating
to Alcoholic Beverage Control, or than regulations of the ABC Board.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.043 APPROVAL OF REGULATIONS.
   No regulation of the Administrator shall become effective until the City
Council has first appropriately approved it.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.044 QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be an Administrator, an Investigator or an employee of the
city under the supervision of the Administrator, who would be disqualified to
be a member of the ABC Board under KRS 241.100.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.045 AUTHORITY.
   The Administrator shall have all authority as authorized under Chapters 241
through 244 of the Kentucky Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.046 WARRANTLESS INSPECTIONS.
   The Administrator, and any Administrator's investigators, may inspect any
premises where alcoholic beverages are manufactured, sold, stored or otherwise
trafficked in, without first obtaining a search warrant as otherwise in
accordance with law.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.047 FINGERPRINTING.
   Should the Administrator at any time have reasonable grounds to believe that
any applicant, licensee, employee of a licensee, or any stockholder, agent or
employee of a licensed corporation, limited liability company, or other
business organization, has a criminal record, he shall have the authority to
require such person to appear in person at the Owingsville Police Department
for the purpose of having his or her fingerprints taken.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.048 OATH.
   The Administrator before entering upon his or her duties as such, shall take
the oath as prescribed in Kentucky Constitution § 228 and shall execute a bond
with a good corporate surety in the penal sum of not less than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). The Administrator may require any employee under the
Administrator's supervision to execute a similar bond in such penal sum as the
Administrator deems necessary.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.049 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from order(s) of the Administrator may be taken to the state
ABC Board by filing with the ABC Board, within thirty (30) days, a certified
copy of the order(s) of the Administrator from which an appeal is taken.
   (B)   The ABC Board shall hear all matters as an original proceeding.
Appeals from order(s) of the Administrator shall be governed by KRS Chapter
13B.
   (C)   When any decision of the Administrator shall have been appealed, or
when a protest has been lodged against an application for any license within
the city, and the ABC Board shall have made a decision regarding such appeal or
protested application, the Administrator, upon receipt of notice of finality of
the decision, shall enter such orders and take such action as required by the
final order of the ABC Board. As provided by law, and as used herein, no order
of the ABC Board is final until all appeals or appeal times shall have been
exhausted. A "final order" of the ABC Board is the order entered by the Board,
unless an appeal is taken from the Board's order, in which case the "final
order" is the order entered by the Board upon direction from the reviewing
court of last resort in the final order of the reviewing court.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; MAINTENANCE OF LICENSE
§ 118.060 ADVERTISEMENT.
   (A)   Each person and each corporation, partnership or any other entity,
except an applicant for the same license for the same premises shall, before
applying for a license under KRS 243.030, KRS 243.040, and this chapter,
advertise by publication under KRS 424.130(1)(b), his or her intent to apply
for a license.
   (B)   (1)   The advertisement or notice referred to in division (A) of this
section shall conform in all material respects to the requirements set out in
this section. The notice shall state:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant, if the applicant is an
individual;
         (b)   The name and address of each partner and the name of the
business and its address, if the applicant is a partnership;
         (c)   The name and address of each principal officer and director and
the name and business address of the corporation, if the applicant is a
corporation;
         (d)   The specific location of the premises for which the license is
sought; and
         (e)   The type of license being requested.
      (2) The notice also shall contain the following statement: "Any person,
association, corporation, or body politic may protest the granting of the
license by writing the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control, 1003 Twilight
Trail, Suite A-2, Frankfort, Kentucky 40601, within thirty (30) days of the
date of legal publication."
   (C)   The applicant shall attach to the license application a newspaper
clipping of the advertisement and proof of the publication as provided in KRS
424.170.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.061 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for a license under KRS 243.020 to KRS 243.670 and
this Ordinance shall be verified and shall set forth in detail such information
concerning the applicant and the premises for which the license is sought as
required by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, the ABC Board, and the city.
   (B)   In addition to other information as the ABC Board may by
administrative regulation require, every application for a license under KRS
243.020 to KRS 243.670 and this chapter shall contain the following
information, given under oath:
      (1)   The name, age, social security number, address, residence, and
citizenship of each applicant;
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership, the name, age, social security
number, address, residence, and citizenship of each partner and the name and
address of the partnership;
      (3)   The name, age, social security number, address, residence, and
citizenship of each person interested in the business for which the license is
sought, together with the nature of that interest, and, if the applicant is a
corporation, limited partnership, or limited liability company, the name, age,
social security number, address, and residence of each officer, director,
member, partner, and managerial employee and the citizenship of each, and the
state under the laws of which the corporate or limited liability company
applicant is either incorporated or organized;
      (4)   A list of each city and state each applicant and every other person
described in divisions (B)(l) through (3) of this section has resided in during
the ten (10) year period immediately preceding the filing of the application;
      (5)   The premises to be licensed, stating the street and number, if the
premises has a street number, and otherwise such a description that will
reasonably indicate the location of the premises;
      (6)   A statement that neither the applicant nor any other person
referred to in this section has been convicted of: any misdemeanor directly or
indirectly attributable to alcoholic beverages; any violation of KRS 218A.050,
218A.060, 218A.070, 218A.080, 218A.090, 218A.100, 218A.110, 218A.120, or
218A.130 within the two (2) years immediately preceding the application; any
felony, within five (5) years from the later of the date of parole or the date
of conviction; or providing false information to the Commonwealth of Kentucky,
Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control preceding the application; and that
the applicant or any other person referred to in this section has not had any
license that has been issued to the applicant under any alcoholic beverage
statute revoked for cause within two (2) years prior to the date of the
application;
      (7)   A statement whether the applicant or any other person referred to
in this section has any interest in any license or limited liability company,
corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a license in
any other state or province;
      (8)   A statement whether the applicant or any other person referred to
in this section has any interest in any other license or limited liability
company, corporation, partnership or other business organization holding a
license under this chapter; and
      (9)   A statement that the applicant will in good faith abide by every
state and local statute, regulation, and ordinance relating to the manufacture,
sale, use of, and trafficking in alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   A nonrefundable application fee of $50.00 shall be paid with the
filing of the application for a city license.
   (D)   All licenses issued by the city under this chapter shall require the
approval of the City Administrator. Applications for the issuance of new
licenses and for renewals of existing licenses shall be in writing and upon the
forms provided by the ABC Board and the city, as amended and supplemented from
time-to-time.
   (E)   Each application shall be accompanied by a certified check, cash or a
postal or express money order for the amount of the license fee in addition to
the $50.00 application fee.
   (F)   In addition to the information specified in division (B) of this
section, the Administrator may require such other information as the
Administrator may in his or her discretion deem desirable, reasonable or
appropriate to the consideration of the application. The applicant shall file
with the application responses to any additional questions as may be posed or
prescribed by the Administrator.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.062 OTHER CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In addition to any other inquiries, conditions or considerations
required or permitted by law:
      (1)   Each location from which each applicant seeks to manufacture,
traffic, or sell alcoholic beverages shall comply with applicable zoning laws,
regulations and restrictions;
      (2)   All applicants shall voluntarily submit to a criminal background
check and shall sign a waiver allowing the release of such information to the
Administrator; and
      (3)   No license to sell alcoholic beverages shall be granted or renewed
to any person who is delinquent in the payment of any taxes or fees due the
city at the time of issuing the license, nor shall any license be granted or
renewed to sell upon any premises or property, owned or occupied by the
licensee upon which there are any delinquent taxes or fees due the city.
Further, if a licensee becomes delinquent in the payment of any taxes or any
fees due the city at any time during the license period, the license to sell
alcoholic beverages shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
   (B)   No person, whether an applicant for a license, or a licensee, shall in
any manner attempt to bribe, threaten, unduly influence or intimidate the
Administrator, or any member of his or her staff, or any state ABC
Administrator or staff, in any matter in which an application or proposed
application for license, or procedure for revocation or suspension is pending
before such officer. This section is not intended to stifle expressions of
opinion; however, it is intended to make clear that the ABC Administrators are
public officials charged with the administration and enforcement of the law,
both local and state. Any person applying for a license, or contesting the
revocation or suspension of a license, who engages in attempted bribes,
threats, attempted undue influence or intimidation of a city or state ABC
Administrator or staff shall be disqualified from receiving or retaining a
license, in addition to other penalties as provided by law. The procedures for
appeals shall apply to disqualifications, revocations or suspensions under this
section. This section shall not be interpreted to prohibit monetary settlements
in lieu of revocation or suspension of any license after a final order or
revocation or suspension, where the ordinance and applicable statutes allow for
such payments in settlement.
   (C)   No person shall become a licensee under KRS 243.020 to 243.670 or this
chapter, if he or she:
      (1)   Has been convicted of any felony until five (5) years, have passed
from the date of conviction, release from custody or incarceration, parole, or
termination of probation, whichever is later;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any misdemeanor described under KRS 218A.050,
218A.060, 218A.070, 218A.080, 218A.090, 218A.100, 218A.110, 218A.120, or
218A.130 within two (2)   years immediately preceding the application;
      (3)   Has been convicted of any misdemeanor directly or indirectly
attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages within two (2) years immediately
preceding the application;
      (4)   Is under the age of twenty-one (21) years;
      (5)   Has had any license issued which relates to the manufacture,
distribution, sale or transportation of alcoholic beverages revoked for cause
or has been convicted of a violation of any statute or regulation relating to
the manufacture, distribution, sale or transportation of alcoholic beverages,
until the expiration of two (2) years from the date of the revocation or
conviction; or
      (6)   Is not a citizen of the United States and has not had an actual,
bona fide residence in this state for at least one (1) year before the date on
which his or her application for a license is made. This division shall not
apply to applicants for manufacturers' licenses, to applicants that are
corporations authorized to do business in this state, or to persons licensed on
March 7, 1938.
   (D)   A partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company, or
corporation shall not be licensed if:
      (1)   Any stockholder of a private corporation, stockholder of a public
corporation holding ten percent (10%) or more of issued stock, partner, limited
partner or member or any director, principal officer, or manager of the same
that does not qualify under division (C) of this section; or
      (2)   It has had any license relating to the manufacture, sale, or
transportation of alcoholic beverages revoked for cause or has been convicted
of a violation of any statute relating to the manufacture, sale, or
transportation of alcoholic beverages, until the expiration of two (2) years
from the date of the revocation or conviction; or
      (3)   If any member of the partnership or any director, manager, or
principal officer of the corporation has had any license issued under any
statute relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale, and transportation
of alcoholic beverages revoked for cause or has been convicted of a violation
of any such statute, until the expiration of the later of two (2) years from
the date of the revocation or two (2) years from the date of conviction.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.063 FORM OF LICENSE.
   All city licenses shall be in such form as may be prescribed by the City
Council and shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the licensee;
   (B)   The number of the license;
   (C)   The type of the license;
   (D)   A description by street and number, or otherwise, of the licensed
premises;
   (E)   The name and address of the owner of the building in which the
licensed premises are located;
   (F)   The expiration date of the license; and
   (G)   A statement in substance that the license shall not be a property or
vested right and that it may be revoked at any time pursuant to law.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.064 CHANGE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   If, after a license has been issued, there is a change in any fact
required to be set forth in the application, a verified amendment, in writing,
giving notice of the change shall be filed with the Administrator within ten
(10) days of the change.
   (B)   As licenses issued by the city may be in the name of a partnership, a
limited liability company, a corporation, or other business organization, it is
necessary that ownership changes in such organizations be reported to the
Administrator. The Administrator can, therefore, investigate the person or
entity to which ownership or management is transferred in order to ascertain
whether that person or entity is precluded by statute, regulation or this
chapter from holding an interest in an alcoholic beverage license.
   (C)   With regard to any partnership, limited partnership, corporation,
limited liability company, or other business organization as used herein, the
word “change” is construed to include any change in any manager, partner, or
limited liability company membership, any director or officer of the
corporation, or change in ownership or stock whereby any person or entity
secures ten percent (10%) or more of ownership interest or stock. Transfer of
ten percent (10%) or more of the total ownership or stock shall require a new
license. The following information will be required concerning any new
stockholder, partner, member, new manager, director, officer, or person
securing any interest in any alcoholic beverage license:
      (1)   Name and address;
      (2)   Nature of interest;
      (3)   Whether or not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   Date of birth;
      (5)   Date residence was established in Kentucky, if a resident of
Kentucky. If a resident of Owingsville, indicate when residence was
established;
      (6)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any other license or
in any limited liability company, corporation, partnership or other business
organization holding a license;
      (7)   Extent of stock or company ownership; and
      (8)   Whether or not he or she has any interest in any license or in any
limited liability company, corporation, partnership or other business
organization holding a license in any other state or province.
   (D)   Information under divisions (A), (B) and (C) of this section shall be
filed with the Administrator as a verified amendment of the application
pursuant to which the license was granted. Filing shall be made within ten (10)
days of any change of required information.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.065 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every year each licensee shall renew its license. All renewal licenses
must be on file with the Administrator no less than thirty (30) days prior to
the expiration of the license for the preceding license period or the same
shall be canceled except where the licensee is unable to continue in business
at the same premises licensed during the preceding license period as a result
of construction, act of God, casualty, death, the acquisition or threatened
acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city or other governmental
agency possessing power of eminent domain, whether such acquisition is
voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew
existing lease; provided that the licensee shall file a written verified
statement no less than twenty (20) days from the expiration date of the
license, setting forth such facts, and the Administrator is hereby authorized
to extend the time for filing of a renewal of such license for a reasonable
length of time within the sound discretion of the Administrator; provided,
however, such licensee shall pay a license fee from the expiration date of the
former license or licenses. The license fee shall not be payable until
application is made for the transfer of the license to a new location.
   (B)   The renewal by the Administrator of the license shall not be construed
to be a waiver or acceptance of any violation which occurred prior to such
renewal and shall not prevent subsequent proceedings against the licensee.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.066 LOST OR DESTROYED LICENSE.
   When a license is lost or destroyed without fault on the part of the
licensee, or his or her agent or employee, a duplicate in lieu of the original
license shall be issued by the Administrator after the Administrator shall have
been satisfied as to the facts; provided, however, that the applicant for the
duplicate license shall pay a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for the duplicate
license.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.067 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any license may be revoked or suspended by the Administrator if the
licensee shall have violated any of the provisions of KRS Chapters 241, 242,
243 or 244, or any rule or regulation of the ABC Board, or of the Department of
Revenue relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale or transportation
or taxation of alcoholic beverages, or if such licensee shall have violated or
shall violate any act of Congress or any rule or regulation of any federal
board, agency or commission, or this chapter, now, heretofore, or hereafter in
effect relating to the regulation of the manufacture, sale or transportation or
taxation of intoxicating liquors or any rules or regulations of the city
heretofore in existence or authorized by the terms of KRS Chapters 241, 242,
243 and 244 to be created, irrespective of whether the licensee knew of or
permitted the violation or whether the violation was committed in disobedience
of his or her instructions, or any such license may be revoked or suspended for
any cause which the Administrator in the exercise of his sound discretion deems
sufficient.
   (B)   A license may be revoked for any of the reasons for which the
Administrator would have been required to refuse a license if the facts had
been known.
   (C)   In addition to the stated causes identified in this chapter, any
license may be revoked or suspended for any of the following causes.
      (1)   Conviction of the licensee or his agent or employee for selling any
illegal beverages on the premises licensed.
      (2)   Making any false material statement in an application for a
license.
      (3)   If within a period of two (2) consecutive years, any licensee or
any clerk, servant, agent or employee of the licensee shall have been convicted
of two (2) violations of the terms and provisions of KRS Chapter 241, 242, 243
or 244 or any act heretofore or hereafter in effect relating to the regulation
of the manufacture, sale or transportation of alcoholic beverages or if within
such period, any licensee or any clerk, servant, agent or employee of the
licensee shall have twice been convicted of any felony or of any misdemeanor
directly or indirectly attributable to the use of alcoholic beverages, or of
one (1) such felony and one (1) such misdemeanor.
      (4)   Willful and deliberate failure or default of a licensee to pay an
excise tax or any part thereof, or any penalties imposed by or under the
provisions of any statute, this chapter, or acts of Congress relative to fees
or taxation, or for a violation of any rules or regulations of the Department
of Revenue made in pursuance thereof.
      (5)   Setting up, conducting, operating or keeping, on the licensed
premises, any gambling game, device, machine or contrivance, or gift
enterprise, or handbook or facility for betting or transmitting bets on horse
races; or permitting to be set up, conducted, operated, kept, or engaged in, on
the licensed premises, any such game, device, machine, contrivance, gift
enterprise, handbook or facility.
      (6)   Any event, occurrence, or other reason identified in KRS 243.500.
      (7)   Any, event, conduct or occurrence in violation of KRS 244.120.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.068 PROCEEDINGS FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; NOTICE AND
OPPORTUNITY TO CONTEST; APPEAL; EFFECT OF REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Upon the verified complaint of any person, or on the initiative of any
law enforcement officer or of the Administrator, the Administrator may
institute proceedings to revoke or suspend any license granted by the city. A
license may be revoked or suspended only after the licensee shall have been
given written notice, by certified or registered mail, of the proposed
revocation, including notice of the reasons for such proposed action. The
licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard in opposition to the
proposed revocation or suspension. The notice of proposed action shall advise
the licensee of the date, time and place of the hearing. Notice shall be
sufficient if mailed to the licensee at the address shown in the last
application for a license or in the last statement supplemental to or in
amendment of the application, whether or not the mailing is receipted for or
claimed.
   (B)   The specific procedures to be followed in hearings on actions for
revocation or suspension shall be prescribed by the City Council by municipal
order. Such order shall be maintained on file in the office of the
Administrator and a copy furnished with any notice of proposed revocation or
suspension sent to a licensee. If the City Council shall fail to adopt such
municipal order, the procedures shall be those set out in the Kentucky
Administrative Procedure Act (KRS Chapter 13B).
   (C)   A decision of the Administrator revoking or suspending a license may
be appealed as provided in KRS 241.200 and KRS 243.550.
   (D)   Within three (3) days after any order of revocation or suspension of a
license becomes final; notice of revocation shall be given to the licensee and
to the owner of the licensed premises. A notice mailed to the licensee and to
the owner of the licensed premises at the address shown in the last application
for a license or in the last statement supplemental to the application shall be
deemed sufficient compliance with this section. The licensee shall at once
surrender his or her license to the Administrator. If the revoked or suspended
license is not forthwith surrendered by the licensee, the Chief of Police at
the request of the Administrator shall immediately cause one of his or her
officers to take physical possession of the license and return it to the
Administrator.
   (E)   Appeal from the decision of the Administrator revoking or suspending a
license shall be to the ABC Board. The timely filing of an appeal shall stay
further proceedings for revocation.
   (F)   If a license is revoked or suspended by an order of the Administrator,
and the decision is not appealed, the licensee shall at once suspend all
operations authorized under his or her license. Upon the entry of a final order
of the ABC Board sustaining or ordering revocation or suspension on appeal, the
licensee shall at once suspend all operations authorized under his or her
license.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.069 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred or assigned either
as to licensee or location except with prior approval of the Administrator and
not then until a payment of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be made to the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.070 REFUSAL OF LICENSE; GUIDELINES FOR APPROVAL OF QUOTA LICENSES.
   (A)   The Administrator may refuse to issue or renew a license for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   Causes for refusal to issue or renew a license and for suspension
or revocation of a city license shall be the same as provided for regarding
alcohol beverage licensing, sales or the administration thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant has done any act for which suspension or
revocation of any alcohol beverage license would be authorized; or
      (3)   If the applicant has made any false material statement in his
application.
   (B)   In the case of quota licenses, before approving an application, the
Administrator is hereby directed to consider, in addition to the factors set
out in KRS 243.450, KRS 243.490 and KRS 243.500, and any other factors the
Administrator determines in his or her discretion to be reasonable and
pertinent to the license application, the following criteria:
      (1)   Ownership. The city places great value on business owners who are
invested in the community.
      (2)   Economic impact. The city desires businesses which make the most
positive impact on the community, in number of jobs, payroll, property
investment and revenues to the city.
      (3)   Site of business. The city is interested in serving all geographic
areas of the city. Therefore, the city does not wish to cluster all licensed
ABC outlets in one area.
      (4)   Aesthetics. The city is committed to protecting the character and
beauty of our community.
      (5)   Capital. The city values businesses that demonstrate their ability
to financially support and sustain their viability.
      (6)   Public support of licensed business in the area. The City intends
that public sentiment and safety be considered in deciding upon the approval of
retail liquor sales licenses in any area of the city.
   (C)   An applicant who has been refused a license by the Administrator may
appeal the refusal to the ABC Board pursuant to KRS 241.200.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.071 REVIEW OF LICENSE; BOOKS, RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Applicants to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter shall
provide periodic information demonstrating compliance with the conditions of
any license, such as, but not limited to, the continuing requirement that a
minimum percentage of the applicant’s business income is earned from the sale
of food. This documentation shall be provided on a schedule to be coordinated
with the applicant’s regulatory fee filings. The city shall provide the form
schedule to the licensee. The licensee’s acceptance of a license to manufacture
or traffic in alcoholic beverages shall constitute consent to the filing of the
report. In the case of caterer filing, the report shall identify each catered
event by type of event, date and address of the event, and shall provide a per
event breakdown of sales and the ratio of food sales to alcohol sales during
the reporting period. This requirement for filing of reports notwithstanding,
the city may at any time come upon the premises of any licensee and examine the
books and records to determine whether the licensee is in compliance with all
parts of this chapter, state law and regulation. In the event the conditions of
any license requirement are not met during any particular period, the
Administrator shall have discretion in determining whether suspension or
revocation is appropriate or whether the licensee may be allowed a reasonable
period of time to reach compliance. If a good faith effort is demonstrated by
the licensee, the Administrator may apply an accounting period of at least one
(1) year in determining whether or not the food sale percentage requirement has
been met.
   (B)   Every licensee subject to this chapter shall keep and maintain upon
the licensed premises adequate books and records of all transactions involved
in the sale of alcoholic beverages in the same manner required by the rules and
regulations of the ABC Board. Such books and records shall be available at all
reasonable times for inspection by the Administrator and such city employees
who may assist the Administrator in his or her review.
   (C)   For the purpose of assisting the Administrator in enforcement of this
chapter, every licensee required to report to the ABC Board under KRS 243.850
shall provide a copy of such report to the Administrator. Copies of any and all
reports and correspondences to the ABC Board required by statute or regulation
shall also be furnished to the Administrator.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.072 DORMANCY.
   It is necessary that a licensee actually conduct the business authorized by
such a license or else the license will be declared dormant and become null and
void after ninety (90) days. Such is the intent of this section. Realizing that
a licensee, like other business, may have his business interrupted by
situations not under his control, various exceptions to the dormancy rule have
been included in this section.
   (A)   Any license under which no business is transacted during a period of
ninety (90) days shall be deemed inactive, and, unless the conditions set forth
in division (B) of this section are proved to the satisfaction of the
Administrator, the license shall be surrendered to the Administrator. If the
license is not voluntarily surrendered, it shall be revoked by the
Administrator.
   (B)   A license may not be considered dormant and declared null and void
under this section if any licensee who is unable to continue in business at the
premises for which a license is issued due to construction, an act of God,
casualty, death, the acquisition of the premises by any federal, state, city or
other governmental agency under power of eminent domain, whether acquisition is
voluntary or involuntary, or loss of lease through failure of landlord to renew
an existing lease; provided, however that prior to the expiration of ninety
(90) days of inactivity, such licensee shall furnish to the Administrator a
verified statement setting forth the fact that the licensee is unable to
continue in business, for any of the specific reasons set forth herein, and the
Administrator may grant an extension of the dormancy with the license
continuing to remain in effect during the license period or until same is
transferred to another premises, notwithstanding the fact that no business is
transacted during the period; provided, in addition, however, that no such
license shall be considered valid unless business is conducted there under
within twelve (12) months from the date of notice to the Administrator. Such
extension may not extend beyond the renewal date but may be for such times as
the Administrator deems appropriate in the exercise of his sound discretion.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 118.085 GENERAL CONDITIONS, PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No licensee shall advertise any malt beverage by trade name, trade-
mark or in any other manner within one hundred (100) feet of the property line
of any school or church. The distance shall be by straight line.
   (B)   No gambling or game of chance unless otherwise authorized by the
Commonwealth of Kentucky shall be permitted in any form on licensed premises.
Dice, slot machines, or any device of chance is prohibited and shall not be
kept on licensed premises.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter to have or
maintain any radio receiving apparatus on such premises which is intentionally
adjusted so as to receive police messages broadcast from any law enforcement
agency in Bath County as it is now or may hereafter be operated. In addition to
other penalties provided for any violation of this section, the Chief of
Police, the Administrator or his or her designated investigator, shall have the
authority to confiscate any and all such radio receiving apparatus.
   (D)   The licensee shall be responsible for maintaining security on his or
her premises including providing adequate outside lighting to permit customers
to utilize the parking area and to promote the safety, health and welfare of
the general public utilizing the licensed premise. Security standards are
further necessary to discourage unlawful activity in and around the licensed
premises.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this chapter who sells
alcoholic beverages of any kind to give away or offer to give away anything
tangible of value as a premium or prize, or for any other purpose in direct
connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages nor shall any licensee give
away any alcoholic beverage in any quantity for less than full monetary
consideration.
   (F)   No licensee or agent or employee of the licensee shall permit any
person to become drunk or intoxicated on the licensed premises, nor shall any
licensee sell alcoholic beverages to any person who is actually or apparently
under the influence of alcoholic beverages, or known to the seller or server to
be an habitual drunkard or any person known to the seller or server to have
been convicted of drunkenness as many as three (3) times within the most recent
twelve (12) month period. No licensee shall permit any person who is actually
or apparently under the influence of alcoholic beverages to remain on the
licensed premises. As used herein, whether a person is actually or apparently
under the influence of alcoholic beverages shall be determined by the licensee
or server with specific reference to the principles and guidelines established
in mandatory alcohol server training as to the signs of alcohol intoxication.
   (G)   The licensee not sell or dispense alcoholic beverages to any person
who is under twenty-one (21) years of age. The licensee shall check all
identification to ascertain that every person attempting to purchase or consume
alcoholic beverages is at least twenty-one (21) years of age.
   (H) The licensee shall display at all times in a prominent place a sign at
least 8" x 11" in 30 point or larger type which states as follows:
      “Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are subject to a fine of up to
One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) if they:
         1.   Enter licensed premises to buy, or have served to them, alcoholic
beverages.
         2.   Possess, purchase or attempt to purchase, or get another to
purchase alcoholic beverages.
         3.   Misrepresent their age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic beverages.”
   (I)   The licensee, before commencing any business for which a license has
been issued, shall post and display at all times in a conspicuous place in the
room or principal room where the business is carried on so that all persons
visiting the place may readily see the license. The licensee shall not at any
time post the license on premises other than the licensed premises or upon
premises where traffic in alcoholic beverages is being carried on by any person
other than the licensee, or knowingly deface, destroy or alter the license in
any respect.
   (J)   The licensee shall post in a prominent place easily seen by patrons a
printed sign at least eleven (11) inches by fourteen (14) inches in size, with
letters at least one (1) inch high, supplied by the Alcoholic Beverage Control
Commission, and with gender-neutral language supplied by the Cabinet for Health
Services, which shall warn that drinking alcoholic beverages prior to
conception or during pregnancy can cause birth defects. A person who violates
this division shall be subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00)
nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (K)   No wholesaler or distributor shall sell any alcoholic beverages to any
person in the city for any consideration except under the usual credit or cash
terms of the wholesaler or distributor at or before the time of delivery. Nor
shall any retail licensee sell to a purchaser for any consideration except for
cash at time of purchase.
   (L)   No licensee shall knowingly employ in connection with his or her
business any person who:
      (1)   Has been convicted of any felony within the last two (2) years; or
      (2)   Has been twice convicted of any misdemeanor or offense directly or
indirectly attributable to the use of intoxicating liquors within the last two
(2) years; or
      (3)   Is under the age of twenty (20) years who will be serving alcoholic
beverages or who will be having any contact whatsoever with the sale of alcohol
as defined under state statute; or
      (4)   Within two (2) years prior to the date of his or her employment,
has had any city license under this chapter revoked for cause.
   (M)   Licensees shall not offer reduced drink specials (e.g., two-for-one,
happy hours) after the hour of 11:00 p.m. until closing or within one-hour of
closing. Violation of this section shall subject the licensee to penalties
provided in this chapter and shall be cause for revocation of license.
   (N)   All retail beer and retail drink licenses shall be required to provide
indoor or outdoor lavatory facilities for their customers where such beverages
are consumed on the premises. Violation of this section shall subject the
licensee to penalties provided in this chapter and shall be cause for
revocation of license.
   (O)   No licensee shall offer or permit nudity, adult entertainment
activities, including nude or nearly nude dancing, adult motion picture,
television, slide or stage shows, cabarets or sexual entertainment centers on
any licensed premises. No licensee shall permit explicit sexual activity,
whether actual or simulated, upon any licensed premises. No licensee shall
sponsor or permit wet t-shirt or wet clothing contests, lingerie fashion shows,
mud wrestling, jello wrestling or similar activities, nor shall any licensee
allow dancing with touching for compensation (including but not limited to
wages, tips or gratuities), or any other service, display or contest requiring
physical contact between patrons and/or patrons and employees on any licensed
premises. No licensee shall sponsor, offer or permit drinking contests, all-
you-can-drink specials or free drinks on any licensed premise in the city.
Violation of this section shall subject the licensee to penalties provided in
this chapter and shall be cause for revocation of license.
   (P)   No license be issued for any premises to operate a vehicle "drive-
through" outlet for the sale of alcoholic beverages, nor shall any person or
licensee operate or permit such a vehicle drive-through outlet. This
prohibition shall not apply to a drive-up window at any premises licensed for
retail package liquor, wine or malt beverage, including retail beer, where the
primary sales area is arranged for and utilized by persons entering the
premises on foot and manually carrying out the products purchased therein.
Violation of this section shall subject the licensee to penalties provided in
this chapter and shall be cause for revocation of license.
   (Q)   (1)   No licensee, or the agent, servant, or employee of any licensee
shall cause, suffer, or permit the licensed premises to be disorderly as
prohibited by KRS 243.120. For purposes of this section, acts which constitute
disorderly premises consist of causing, suffering, or permitting patrons, the
licensee, or the licensee's servants, agents, or employees to cause public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, or create a risk through:
         (a)   Engaging in fighting or in violent, tumultuous, or threatening
behavior;
         (b)   Making unreasonable noise;
         (c)   Refusing to obey an official order to disperse issued to
maintain public safety in dangerous proximity to a fire, hazard, or other
emergency;
         (d)   Creating a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any
act that serves no legitimate purpose;
         (e)   Creating a public nuisance;
         (f)   Engaging in criminal activity that would constitute a capital
offense, felony, or misdemeanor; or
         (g)   Failing to maintain the minimum health, fire, safety, or
sanitary standards established by the state or a local government, or by state
administrative regulations, for the licensed premises.
      (2)   Violation of this section shall subject the licensee to penalties
provided in this chapter and shall be cause for revocation of license.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.086 HOURS FOR SALE AND DELIVERY.
   (A)   Each licensee holding a city license to sell or dispense package
distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wine may sell or dispense package
distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wine between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
12:00 midnight Monday through Saturday and 12:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight on
Sunday.
   (B)   Each licensee holding a city license to sell or dispense distilled
spirits, malt beverages or wine by the drink may sell or dispense distilled
spirits, malt beverages or wine by the drink between the hours of 10:00 a.m.
and 12:00 midnight, Monday through Thursday; and between the hours of 10:00
a.m. Friday and 1:00 a.m. the following Saturday; and between the hours of 10:
00 a.m. Saturday and 1:00 a.m. the following Sunday.
   (C)   Hotels, motels, inns, or restaurants holding a Special Sunday Retail
Drink License may sell distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages by the drink
on Sundays between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight.
   (D)   Each licensee holding a city license to sell distilled spirits, wine
or malt beverages by the drink may sell distilled spirits, wine or malt
beverages on January 1 between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 2:00 a.m.
   (E)   All deliveries must be made during normal business hours.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.087 POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED; NO PERSON SHALL AID POSSESSION BY
MINORS.
   (A)   Except as specifically authorized under KRS 241 through 244, no person
under the age of 21 may possess alcoholic beverages or enter onto any licensed
premises for the purpose of acquiring alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   As provided in KRS 244.085, no person under the age of twenty-one
(21), except in the company of a parent or guardian, may enter any premises
licensed for the package sale of alcoholic beverages. For purposes of this
prohibition, "premises" specifically encompasses the entire lot upon which a
licensed establishment is situated, including any drive-up window. The
prohibition contained in this paragraph shall not apply to premises where the
usual and customary business of the establishment is a gas station, convenience
store, grocery store, drugstore, or similar establishment.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly, allow, aid, assist, induce, cause or
otherwise encourage any minor to be in possession of, use, or consume alcoholic
beverages. All licensees shall require proof of age of all persons attempting
to purchase alcoholic beverages or consume alcoholic beverages on the
licensee's premises.
   (D)   No person being the owner or occupant or otherwise in possession or
control of any property located within the city shall knowingly allow any minor
to remain on such property while in possession of, using, or consuming
alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   It shall be a defense to any prosecution under this section if the
person charged, upon discovery of the minor individuals, manifests a proper
effort to enlist the aid of and cooperate with law enforcement personnel in
stopping the minor individual's possession, consumption or use of alcoholic
beverages, or that the minor individual's possession of alcoholic beverages was
exempted by KRS 244.087.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.088 CONSUMPTION ON LICENSED PACKAGE PREMISES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No licensee of a package store, whether trafficking in distilled spirits,
wine or malt beverages, shall permit consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises unless the person or entity shall also have a drink license conferring
the privilege of consumption on the premises or shall have a retail malt
beverage license which permits on premises consumption. Any licensee who
intends to permit on premises consumption shall, prior to permitting on
premises consumption, notify the Administrator in writing of this decision. A
licensee who does not permit on premises consumption shall post a prominent
notice on the premises stating that consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises is prohibited. This restriction regarding on premises consumption
shall not prohibit sampling as allowed for microbreweries and wineries under
the provisions of KRS Chapter 243, or where sampling is permitted for a retail
distilled spirits and wine licensee under the provisions of KRS 244.050, or
beer tastings as permitted in 804 KAR 11:030.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.089 CONGREGATING ON CERTAIN ABC LICENSED PREMISES AND VACANT PREMISES
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person or entity operating a package liquor store, whether
trafficking in distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages, including retail
package beer licensees, shall knowingly allow or permit habitual congregating
of persons on the unenclosed portion of the licensed premises so as to
constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   No person or entity being the owner or otherwise in possession or
control of any vacant property shall knowingly allow or permit habitual
congregating of persons on the unenclosed portion of such property so as to
constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   As used in this section and § 188.088, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
      (1)   "HABITUAL." Consistent, that is, by frequent practice or use, but
not necessarily constant or exclusive;
      (2)   "PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE." A retail establishment selling distilled
spirits, wine and malt beverages in package containers pursuant to licenses
issued for those purposes;
      (3)   "PUBLIC NUISANCE." Any activity that endangers or interferes with
the general use and enjoyment of neighboring property, passers-by or the
health, safety and welfare of the public; and
      (4)   "VACANT PROPERTY." A vacant lot on which no building or other
structure exists or property on which any structure is unoccupied or unused, or
which otherwise reflects abandonment by the owner or person with the right of
occupancy.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
SIGNS AND ADVERTISING
§ 118.100 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING GENERALLY.
   (A)   All signage shall be in compliance with any and all existing rules and
regulations of the city and the applicable zoning ordinances and restrictions.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to distribute
or cause to be distributed any handbills, circulars, or cards as a medium of
advertising alcoholic beverages.
   (C)   Any advertising by any licensee under this chapter shall be in
compliance with KRS 244.130.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.101 ADVERTISING ON MUNICIPALLY OWNED PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall advertise alcoholic beverages on any municipally owned
property.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.102 CERTAIN OTHER ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall publish or display advertising that is false or
misleading, nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that implies
that consumption of alcoholic beverages is fashionable or the accepted course
of behavior, or advertising that contains any statement, picture or
illustration implying that the consumption of alcoholic beverages enhances
athletic prowess, whether or not any known athlete is depicted or referred to,
nor shall any licensee publish or display advertising that encourages
intoxication by referring to the intoxicating effects of alcohol (or the use of
terms such as "high test", "high proof" or "extra strong") or depicting
activities that tend to encourage excessive consumption.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
§ 118.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to any criminal prosecution instituted in Bath District
Court against an alleged violator, the Administrator may assess the fines and
penalties authorized in KRS 243.480, including the per diem assessments for
ongoing violations. Should the fines or penalties assessed by the state change
under KRS 243.480, then the fines or penalties under this chapter shall be
adjusted accordingly to mirror the fines or penalties imposed by state law.
Payment of all fines shall be made to the City Clerk.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter, for which no other penalty is hereby provided, shall, for the
first offense, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) or imprisoned in the county jail for not
more than six (6) months, or both, and for the second and each subsequent
violation, he or she shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned in the county jail
for not more than six months, or both. The penalties provided for in this
section shall be in addition to the revocation or suspension of the offender’s
license. If the offender is a corporation, LLC, joint stock company,
association or other business organization, or a fiduciary, the principal
officer or officers responsible for the violation may be imprisoned.
(Ord. 6-2020, passed 12-14-20)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
131.   FAMILY OFFENSES
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
      
137.   SEXUAL OFFENSES
      
138.   INCHOATE OFFENSES
      
139.   GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
              
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against persons. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                        KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ASSAULT
   First degree             508.010     B felony
   Second degree            508.020     C felony
   Third degree             508.025     D felony
   Fourth degree            508.030     A misdemeanor
   Under emotional disturban508.040     B misdemeanor or D felony
CRIMINAL ABUSE
   First degree             508.100     C felony
   Second degree            508.110     D felony
   Third degree             508.120     A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL COERCION              509.080     A misdemeanor
CUSTODIAL INTERFERENCE         509.070     D felony
KIDNAPPING                     509.040     A or B felony; capital offense
MANSLAUGHTER
   First degree             507.030     B felony
   Second degree            507.040     C felony
MENACING                       508.050     B misdemeanor
MURDER                         507.020     Capital offense
RECKLESS HOMICIDE              507.050     D felony
TERRORISTIC THREATENING        508.080     A misdemeanor
UNLAWFUL IMPRISONMENT
   First degree             509.020     D felony
   Second degree            509.030     A misdemeanor
WANTON ENDANGERMENT
   First degree             508.060     D felony
   Second degree            508.070     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 131: FAMILY OFFENSES
              
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common family offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                           KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
BIGAMY                                            530.010     D felony
CONCEALING BIRTH OF INFANT                        530.030     A misdemeanor
INCEST                                            530.020     A, B, or C felony
INCOMPETENT PERSON, ENDANGERING WELFARE OF MINORS 530.080     A misdemeanor
   Abandonment of                              530.040     D felony
   Endangering welfare of                      530.060     A misdemeanor
   Unlawful transaction with
      First degree                          530.064     A, B, or C felony
      Second degree                         530.065     D felony
      Third degree                          530.070     A misdemeanor
NONSUPPORT                                        530.050     A misdemeanor
NONSUPPORT, FLAGRANT                              530.050     D felony
 
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
              
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against property. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                            KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ARSON                                          
   Defrauding insurer           513.060     D felony
   First degree                 513.020     A felony
   Second degree                513.030     B felony
   Third degree                 513.040     D felony
BURGLARY                                       
   First degree                 511.020     B felony
   Second degree                511.030     C felony
   Third degree                 511.040     D felony
   Possession of burglar's tools511.050     A misdemeanor
CRIMINAL MISCHIEF                              
   First degree                 512.020     D felony
   Second degree                512.030     A misdemeanor
   Third degree                 512.040     B misdemeanor
CRIMINAL TRESPASS                              
   First degree                 511.060     A misdemeanor
   Second degree                511.070     B misdemeanor
   Third degree                 511.080     Violation
FORGERY AND RELATED OFFENSES                   
   Criminal simulation          516.110     A misdemeanor
   Forgery                                  
      First degree           516.020     C felony
      Second degree          516.030     D felony
      Third degree           516.040     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forged instrume            
      First degree           516.050     C felony
      Second degree          516.060     D felony
      Third degree           516.070     A misdemeanor
   Possession of forgery device 516.090     D felony
   Using slugs                              
      First degree           516.120     D felony
      Second degree          516.130     B misdemeanor
LITTERING, CRIMINAL                512.070     A misdemeanor
                                              
 
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                             KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES                              
   Criminal possession of        512.060     B misdemeanor
   Criminal use of               512.050     B misdemeanor
POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS UNLAWFULLY   512.080     Violation
ROBBERY                                         
   First degree                  515.020     B felony
   Second degree                 515.030     C felony
THEFT AND RELATED OFFENSES                      
   Device for theft of telephone 514.065     A misdemeanor or D felony
services
   Obscuring identity of machine 514.120     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Possession of stolen mail     514.150     D felony
                                                A or B misdemeanor
   Receiving stolen property     514.110     or
                                                A, B, C or D felony
   Theft by deception            514.040     A misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft by extortion            514.080     A or B misdemeanor or C or D
                                                felony
   Theft by failure to make      514.070     A or B misdemeanor or C or D
disposition                                     felony
   Theft by unlawful taking      514.030     A or B misdemeanor or B, C, or
                                                D felony
   Theft of labor                514.090     A or B misdemeanor or D felony
   Theft of mail matter          514.140     D felony
   Theft of property             514.050     A or B misdemeanor or C or D
                                                felony
   Theft of services             514.060     A or B misdemeanor or C or D
                                                felony
   Unauthorized use of vehicle   514.100     A misdemeanor or D felony
                                               
 
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
              
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public morals. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                     KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
PORNOGRAPHY                                             
   Advertising obscene material          531.050     B misdemeanor
   Distribution                                      
      Distribution of obscene matter  531.020     A or B misdemeanor
      Distribution to minor           531.030     A misdemeanor or D
                                                        felony
      Using minors to distribute      531.040     A misdemeanor or D
                                                        felony
   Portrayal of sexual performance by min            
      Advertising material containing 531.360     A misdemeanor
      Distributing matter             531.340     B, C, or D felony
      Promoting sale of matter contain531.350     A misdemeanor; C or D
                                                        felony
      Using minors to distribute such 531.370     C or D felony
matter
   Promoting sale of obscenity           531.060     A or B misdemeanor; D
                                                        felony
   Sexual performance by minor                       
      Promotion of                    531.320     A, B, or C felony
      Use of minor                    531.310     A, B, or C felony
PROSTITUTION OFFENSES                                   
   Loitering for prostitution purposes   529.080     Violation or B
                                                        misdemeanor
   Permitting prostitution               529.070     B misdemeanor
   Promoting prostitution                            
      Second degree                   529.040     D felony
   Prostitution                          529.020     B misdemeanor
                                                       
 
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
              
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common gambling offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                   KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
CONSPIRACY TO PROMOTE GAMBLING            528.040     D felony
HORSE RACES, MESSENGER BETTING PROHIBITED 528.110     A misdemeanor
PARI-MUTUEL WAGERING                      558.120     A misdemeanor
PERMITTING GAMBLING                       528.070     B misdemeanor
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING DEVICE             528.080     A misdemeanor
POSSESSION OF GAMBLING RECORDS
   First degree                        528.050     D felony
   Second degree                       528.060     A misdemeanor
PROMOTING GAMBLING
   First degree                        528.020     D felony
   Second degree                       528.030     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND JUSTICE
              
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public administration
and justice. These citations are intended only as convenient references for
enforcement officers in citing offenders under state law. It is not the
intention of the municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this
code of ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by
reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                    KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
BRIBERY AND RELATED OFFENSES
   Bribery of public servant            521.020     D felony
   Receiving unlawful compensation      521.040     A misdemeanor
   Soliciting unlawful compensation     521.030     B misdemeanor
ESCAPE AND RELATED OFFENSES
   Bail jumping
      First degree                   520.070     D felony
      Second degree                  520.080     A misdemeanor
   Escape
      First degree                   520.020     C felony
      Second degree                  520.030     D felony
      Third degree                   520.040     B misdemeanor
   Hindering prosecution or apprehension
      First degree                   520.120     D felony
      Second degree                  520.130     A misdemeanor
   Promoting contraband
      First degree                   520.050     D felony
      Second degree                  520.060     A misdemeanor
   Resisting arrest                     520.090     A misdemeanor
   Resisting order to stop motor vehicle520.100     A misdemeanor
JUDICIAL ADMINISTRATION, INTERFERENCE WITH
   Bribe receiving by juror             524.070     D felony
   Bribe receiving by witness           524.030     D felony
   Bribing a juror                      524.060     D felony
   Bribing a witness                    524.020     D felony
   Harassing a witness                  524.045     A misdemeanor
   Intimidating a judicial officer      524.120     D felony
   Intimidating a juror                 524.080     D felony
   Intimidating a witness               524.040     D felony
   Jury tampering                       524.090     A misdemeanor
   Retaliating against a witness        524.055     D felony
   Simulating legal process             524.110     B misdemeanor
   Tampering with physical evidence     524.100     D felony
   Tampering with a witness             524.050     A misdemeanor
   Unlawful practice of law             524.130     B misdemeanor
PERJURY AND RELATED OFFENSES
   False swearing                    523.040 B misdemeanor
   Perjury
      First degree                523.020 D felony
      Second degree               523.030 A misdemeanor
   Unsworn falsification to authoriti523.100 B misdemeanor
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, OBSTRUCTION OF
   Compounding a crime               519.030 A misdemeanor
   Falsely reporting an incident     519.040 A misdemeanor
   Impersonating a public servant    519.050 A misdemeanor
   Obstructing governmental operation519.020 A misdemeanor
   Tampering with public records     519.060 A misdemeanor
PUBLIC OFFICE, ABUSE OF
   Misuse of confidential information522.040 D felony
   Official misconduct
      First degree                522.020 A misdemeanor
      Second degree               522.030 B misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER
Section
   
136.01   Use of water salesperson to fill contaminated tanks prohibited
§ 136.01 USE OF WATER SALESPERSON TO FILL CONTAMINATED TANKS.
   (A)   No person who uses a water salesperson shall have that person fill
tanks that have been contaminated with chemicals or other hazardous materials.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of division (A) above shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined $500.
(Ord. 6-199, passed 9-9-91)
              
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common offenses against public order. These
citations are intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers
in citing offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the
municipality to incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of
ordinances, and such provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                                     KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
ABUSE OF CORPSE                             525.120     D felony
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS                                      
   First degree                          525.125     D felony
   Second degree                         525.130     A misdemeanor
DESECRATION OF VENERATED OBJECTS            525.110     A misdemeanor
DISORDERLY CONDUCT                          525.060     B misdemeanor
DISRUPTING MEETINGS OR PROCESSIONS          525.150     B misdemeanor
EAVESDROPPING AND RELATED OFFENSES                      
   Divulging illegally obtained informati526.060     A misdemeanor
   Eavesdropping                         526.020     D felony
   Installing eavesdropping device       526.030     D felony
   Possessing eavesdropping device       526.040     A misdemeanor
   Tampering with private communications 526.050     A misdemeanor
FAILURE TO DISPERSE                         525.160     B misdemeanor
FIREARMS AND WEAPONS                                    
                                                       
 
(Editor's note: KRS 65.870 prohibits any city from regulating the transfer,
ownership, possession, carrying, or transportation of firearms, ammunition, or
components of firearms or combinations thereof.)
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE                               KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
HARASSING COMMUNICATIONS              525.080     B misdemeanor
HARASSMENT                            525.070     Violation
INCITING TO RIOT                      525.040     A misdemeanor
LOITERING                             525.090     Violation
OBSTRUCTING HIGHWAY OR PUBLIC PASSAGE 525.140     B misdemeanor
PUBLIC INTOXICATION                   525.100     B misdemeanor
RIOT
   First degree                    525.020     D felony
   Second degree                   525.030     A misdemeanor
UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY                     525.050     B misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 137: SEXUAL OFFENSES
              
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common sexual offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
OFFENSE KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
OFFENSE           KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
INDECENT EXPOSURE 510.150     B misdemeanor
RAPE
   First degree510.040     A or B felony
   Second degre510.050     C felony
   Third degree510.060     D felony
SEXUAL ABUSE
   First degree510.110     D felony
   Second degre510.120     A misdemeanor
   Third degree510.130     B misdemeanor
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT 510.140     A misdemeanor
SODOMY
   First degree510.070     A or B felony
   Second degre510.080     C felony
   Third degree510.090     D felony
   Fourth degre510.100     A misdemeanor
 
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 138: INCHOATE OFFENSES
              
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter contains references to those sections of the Kentucky Revised
Statutes which prohibit the most common inchoate offenses. These citations are
intended only as convenient references for enforcement officers in citing
offenders under state law. It is not the intention of the municipality to
incorporate such statutory provisions in this code of ordinances, and such
provisions are specifically not incorporated by reference.
 
OFFENSE               KRS SECTION PENALTY CLASS
CRIMINAL ATTEMPT      506.010     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY   506.040     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
CRIMINAL FACILITATION 506.080     A or B misdemeanor; D felony
CRIMINAL SOLICITATION 506.030     A or B misdemeanor; B or C felony
CRIMINAL SYNDICATE    506.120     B felony
 
Penalty, see Ch. 139
CHAPTER 139: GENERAL PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII
              
EDITOR'S NOTE:
   This chapter is included for informational purposes only. The provisions of
this chapter are specifically not incorporated by reference.
Section
   
139.01   Fines for misdemeanors and violations
   
139.02   Sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
   
139.03   Fines for felonies
   
139.04   Sentence of imprisonment for felony
§ 139.01 FINES FOR MISDEMEANORS AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Fines and imprisonment for misdemeanors shall not be mutually
exclusive. In any case where imprisonment is authorized a fine may be levied in
addition to the imprisonment or a fine may be levied as an alternative to
imprisonment. Similarly, a fine may be levied in lieu of imprisonment. Whether
or not the fine is to be levied as the sole penalty or as an additional or
alternative penalty shall be in the discretion of the judge or jury as the case
may be. If the trial is by jury then the jury shall have the discretion. This
rule shall apply in all cases where a fine is not the exclusive penalty
authorized by law.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any offense other than a felony may
be sentenced to pay a fine in an amount not to exceed:
      (1)   For a Class A misdemeanor, $500; or
      (2)   For a Class B misdemeanor, $250; or
      (3)   For a violation, $250.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.040)
§ 139.02 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   A sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall be a definite term and
shall be fixed within the following maximum limitations:
   (A)   For a Class A misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 12 months; and
   (B)   For a Class B misdemeanor, the term shall not exceed 90 days.
(KRS 532.090)
§ 139.03 FINES FOR FELONIES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for an offense defined outside this
title, a person who has been convicted of any felony and granted a sentence of
probation or conditional discharge may be sentenced to pay a fine in an amount
not to exceed $10,000 or double his gain from commission of the offense,
whichever is the greater.
   (B)   In determining the amount and method of paying a fine for commission
of a felony, the court shall consider, among others, the following factors:
      (1)   The defendant's ability to pay the amount of the fine;
      (2)   The hardship likely to be imposed on the defendant's dependents by
the amount of the fine and the time and method of paying it;
      (3)   The impact the amount of the fine will have on the defendant's
ability to make reparation or restitution to the victim; and
      (4)   The amount of the defendant's gain, if any, derived from the
commission of the offense.
   (C)   When a defendant is convicted of two or more felonies committed
through a single act and is sentenced to fines pursuant to division (A) above,
the aggregate amount of such fines shall not exceed $10,000 or double the
amount of the defendant's gain from commission of the offenses, whichever is
the greater.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a corporation.
(KRS 534.030)
§ 139.04 SENTENCE OF IMPRISONMENT FOR FELONY.
   (A)   A sentence of imprisonment for a felony shall be an indeterminate
sentence, the maximum of which shall be fixed within the limits provided by
division (B) below, and subject to modification by the trial judge pursuant to
KRS 532.070.
   (B)   The authorized maximum terms of imprisonment for felonies are:
      (1)   For a Class A felony, not less than 20 years nor more than life
imprisonment;
      (2)   For a Class B felony, not less than 10 years nor more than 20
years;
      (3)   For a Class C felony, not less than 5 years nor more than 10 years;
and
      (4)   For a Class D felony, not less than one year nor more than 5 years.
   (C)   The actual time of release within the maximum established by division
(A) above, or as modified pursuant to KRS 532.070, shall be determined under
procedures established elsewhere by law.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PLANNING
      
152.   ZONING CODE
      
153.   VACANT PROPERTY REVIEW COMMISSION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Kentucky Building Code; Standards of Safety
   
150.02   Enforcement
   
150.03   Appeals
    
150.04   Application
   
150.05   Permit and inspection fees
   
150.06   Building Inspection Program
   
150.07   Adoption of the Kentucky Residential Code
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF KENTUCKY BUILDING CODE; STANDARDS OF SAFETY.
   (A)   The Kentucky Building Code as promulgated in 815 KAR 7:120 by the
Board of Housing, Buildings, and Construction, Commonwealth of Kentucky, is
hereby adopted in full as an ordinance of the city as if set out at length
herein. A copy of the Kentucky Building Code together with a copy of all other
regulations of NFiPA pamphlets adopted or referred to thereunder, is on file in
the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer, and the Clerk/Treasurer shall at all
times keep a copy of the building code for reference.
(Ord. 11-1989, passed 6-21-89; Am. Ord. 3-2005, passed 4-11-05)
   (B)   The Kentucky Plumbing Code, as contained in Chapter 20, Title 815 of
the Kentucky Administrative Regulations; the Kentucky Standards of Safety, as
contained in Chapter 10, Title 815 of the Kentucky Administrative Regulations,
together with any amendments, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth in this code of ordinances. Copies of the above codes and any amendments
thereto shall be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer where
they shall be available for public inspection during normal business hours.
   (C)   Each of the codes adopted in divisions (A) and (B), including all
penalty provisions thereof and any amendments thereto, shall be in force
throughout the city.
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Building Inspector shall be designated as the local
enforcement agent/agency for the Kentucky Building Code. All building code
inspections shall be performed by persons certified by the Kentucky Department
of Housing, Buildings and Construction.
(Ord. 11-1989, passed 6-21-89; Am. Ord. 3-2005, passed 4-11-05)
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for enforcement of the provisions
of the Kentucky Standards of Safety.
   (C)   All electrical inspector specifically approved by this jurisdiction.
(Ord. 3-2005, passed 4-11-05)
§ 150.03 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions made by the City Building Inspector under this
chapter may be taken to the State Department of Housing, Buildings, and
Construction unless and/or until a local board of housing appeals, as set forth
in KRS Chapter 198B, is established to hear such appeals.
                    
Statutory reference:
Appeals procedure, see KRS 198B.070
§ 150.04 APPLICATION.
   The application of the Kentucky Building Code is hereby extended to all
single-family dwellings to be constructed in the city.
(Ord. 11-1989, passed 6-21-89)
§ 150.05 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   The fees for permits and inspections shall be provided in a schedule
attached to Ordinance 3-2005, passed 4-11-05; and shall hereby be incorporated
in this chapter as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 11-1989, passed 6-21-89; Am. Ord. 3-2005, passed 4-11-05)
§ 150.06 BUILDING INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   Pursuant to KRS 198B.060(8), a Building Inspection Program is hereby
established in the city for application to all buildings, including single-
family dwellings as provided in the adopted codes.
(Ord. 3-2005, passed 4-11-05)
§ 150.07 ADOPTION OF THE KENTUCKY RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   Certain documents, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being designated as the Kentucky Residential Code, Chapters 1
through 43, as published by the International Code Council, inc. and is hereby
adopted as the code for the regulating of design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of one- and two-family dwellings
and townhouses not more than three stories in height in the city and providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions and conditions and terms of such Kentucky
Residential Code, 2002 edition, published by the International Code Council on
file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out in this section.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 5-9-05)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
Any person who violates any provision of the state codes adopted in §
150.01 shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Violators of the Uniform State Building Code or the Uniform State
Residential Code shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $1000 for each offense.
(KRS 198B.990(1))
   (B)   Violators of the State Standards of Safety shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $1000, imprisonment for
not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 227.990(1))
   (C)   Violators of the State Plumbing Code shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $100, imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
(KRS 318.990).
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING
Section
Comprehensive Plan
   
151.01   Comprehensive plan adopted
Planning Commission
   
151.10   Establishment; membership
   
151.11   Officers
   
151.12   Meetings
   
151.13   Minutes and bylaws
   
151.14   Reimbursement or compensation
   
151.15   Finances
   
151.16   Employing planners or other persons
   
151.17   Other powers and duties
COMPREHENSIVE
§ 151.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Comprehensive Plan for the city of Owingsville, Kentucky, and all
amendments thereto, is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth in
this code of ordinances.
(Res. 84-6, passed 12-3-84)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 151.10 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a Planning Commission for
the city.
   (B)   Membership. The Planning Commission shall consist of six (6) members,
all of whom shall be residents of the City of Owingsville, Kentucky. The
members shall be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council. The
appointed members shall hold no other city office, except that one of the
appointed members may be a member of the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (C)   Terms of office. The term of each appointed member shall be four (4)
years and until his successor takes office, except that the original terms of
the six (6) appointed members shall be staggered in one (1), two (2), three (3)
and four (4) year terms.
(Ord. 910-1, passed 2-1-54; Am. Ord., passed 11-7-83; Am. Ord. 13-1986, passed
12-12-86; Am. Ord. 2-2001, passed 5-14-01)
   (D)   Vacancies. Vacancies on the Planning Commission shall be filled within
sixty (60) days by the appropriate appointing authority. If the authority fails
to act within that time, the Planning Commission shall fill the vacancy. When a
vacancy occurs other than through expiration of the term of office, it shall be
filled for the remainder of that term.
(KRS 100.147)
   (E)   Oath of office. All members of the Planning Commission shall, before
entering upon their duties, qualify by taking the oath of office prescribed by
Section 228 of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Kentucky before any
judge, county judge/executive, notary public, clerk of a court, or justice of
the peace within the district or county in which he resides.
(KRS 100.151)
   (F)   Removal of member. Any member of the Planning Commission may be
removed by the appropriate appointing authority for inefficiency, neglect of
duty, malfeasance, or conflict of interest. Any appointing authority who
exercises the power to remove a member of the Planning Commission shall submit
a written statement to the Planning Commission setting forth the reasons for
removal, and the statement shall be read at the next meeting of the Planning
Commission, which shall be open to the general public. The member so removed
shall have the right of appeal in the circuit court.
(KRS 100.157(1))
§ 151.11 OFFICERS.
   The Planning Commission annually shall elect a Chairperson and any other
officers which it deems necessary. All officers shall be citizen members, and
shall be eligible for reelection at the expiration of his term.
(KRS 100.161)
§ 151.12 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall conduct regular meetings as it deems
necessary for the transaction of its business; but there shall be at least six
(6) regular meetings annually. The schedule for regular meetings shall be
expressed in the rules and regulations of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Special meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson who
shall give written or oral notice to all members at least seven (7) days prior
to the meeting, which notice shall contain the date, time, and place, and the
subject or subjects which shall be discussed.
(KRS 100.163)
§ 151.13 MINUTES AND BYLAWS.
   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of business,
and shall keep minutes and records of all proceedings, including regulations,
transactions, findings, and determinations, and the number of votes for and
against each question, and if any member is absent or disqualifies himself,
from voting, indicating the fact, all of which shall, immediately after
adoption, be filed in the office of the Planning Commission. If the Planning
Commission has no office, these records shall be filed in the office of the
County Clerk. A transcript of the entire proceedings of the Planning Commission
shall be provided if requested by a party, at the expense of the requesting
party, and the transcript shall constitute the record.
(KRS 100.167)
§ 151.14 REIMBURSEMENT OR COMPENSATION.
   In the agreement under which the Planning Commission operates, reimbursement
for expenses or compensation, or both, may be authorized for citizen members of
the Planning Commission. Reimbursement for expenses may be authorized for city
officials and employees, but such members shall receive no compensation.
(KRS 100.153)
§ 151.15 FINANCES.
   The City Council may appropriate out of general revenues for the expenses
and accommodations necessary for the work of the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall have the right to receive, hold, and spend funds
which it may legally receive from any and every source both in and out of the
Commonwealth of Kentucky, including the United States government, for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of KRS Chapter 100. The bylaws shall
describe the method for administration of funds, and an annual audit shall be
performed of all receipts, expenditures, and funds on hand by the auditor of
public accounts or an independent certified public accountant. The report of
every audit, including financial statements, shall be kept in the same manner
prescribed in KRS Chapter 100 for other records.
(KRS 100.177)
§ 151.16 EMPLOYING PLANNERS OR OTHER PERSONS.
   The Planning Commission may employ a staff or contract with planners or
other persons as it deems necessary to accomplish its assigned duties under
this subchapter.
(KRS 100.173)
§ 151.17 OTHER POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Council or Mayor may assign to the Planning Commission any
powers, duties, and functions relating to urban renewal, public housing, or
community development.
(KRS 100.181)
   (B)   In addition to the powers, duties, and limitations set forth in this
subchapter, the Planning Commission shall have all the powers, duties, and
responsibilities and be subject to all the limitations set forth in KRS Chapter
100.
CHAPTER 152: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Interpretation and scope of regulations
   
152.004   Definitions
   
152.005   Amendments
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.015   Administrative Officer/Building Inspector
   
152.016   Board of Zoning Adjustment
   
152.017   Powers and duties of the Board
   
152.018   Appeals
   
152.019   Schedule of fees and expenses
   
152.020   Complaints regarding violations
   
152.021   Continuance of nonconforming uses
   
152.022   Charge for zone changes
Permits and Procedures
   
152.030   Building permits
   
152.031   Application for building permit
   
152.032   Certificates of occupancy for new, altered, or nonconforming uses
   
152.033   Expiration of building permits
   
152.034   Construction, use to be as provided in applications, plans, permits,
and certificates of occupancy
General Development Regulations
   
152.040   Coordination with subdivision regulations
   
152.041   Water supply and sewage disposal
   
152.042   Visibility at intersections
   
152.043   Fences, walls, and hedges
   
152.044   Accessory buildings
   
152.045   Regulations for lots and yards
   
152.046   Exception to height restrictions
   
152.047   Structure access
   
152.048   Multi-family housing
   
152.049   Junkyards
Parking Regulations
   
152.060   Parking, storage, and use of major recreational equipment
   
152.061   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
152.062   Loading and unloading spaces required
   
152.063   Parking space requirements
   
152.064   Garages, public parking lots, service stations, and automobile sale
lots
   
152.075   Statement of intent
   
152.076   Permitted signs
   
152.077   Prohibited signs
Landscaping
   
152.090   Statement of intent
   
152.091   Landscaping requirements
   
152.092   Enforcement of landscaping requirements
   
152.093   Variances
Zoning District Regulations
   
152.100   Establishment and designation of districts
   
152.101   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
152.102   Schedule of dimension and area requirements
   
152.103   R-1 Single-Family Residential Districts
   
152.104   R-2 Duplex and Single-Family Residential Districts
   
152.105   R-3 Medium Density Residential Districts
   
152.106   R-4 High Density Residential Districts
   
152.107   P-1 Professional Office Districts
   
152.108   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial Districts
   
152.109   C-2 Highway Commercial Districts
   
152.110   C-3 Central Business Districts
   
152.111   I-1 Light Industrial Districts
   
152.112   I-2 Medium Industrial Districts
   
152.113   I-3 Heavy Industrial Districts
   
152.114   Historic Districts
   
152.115   FP/C Floodplain Conservation Districts
   
152.116   A Agricultural Districts
   
152.117   MH Mobile Home Districts
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the city zoning code.
The zoning map shall be entitled "Zoning Map of Owingsville, Kentucky."
   (B)   A copy of the text and map shall be on file with the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent, purpose, and scope of this chapter to promote and protect
the health, safety, or general welfare of the citizens of the city by
empowering them to regulate and restrict the height, number of stories, size of
buildings and other structures, percentage of a lot that may be occupied by
construction, size of yards and other open spaces, density of population,
location and use of buildings, structures, and land for agriculture, trade,
industry, residence, and other purposes as detailed in KRS 100.203.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.003 INTERPRETATION AND SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This zoning code shall be strictly construed and may not be extended
by implication except where the intention of the city must prevail. In their
interpretation and application, the provisions of this zoning code shall be
held to be minimum requirements.
   (B)   Whenever this zoning code imposes a greater restriction than is
imposed or required by other provisions of law or by other rules, regulations,
resolutions, or ordinances, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
   (C)   All future structures and uses of premises within the city shall
conform with all applicable provisions of this chapter. Each zoning district is
established to permit only those uses specifically listed as permitted, except
as hereinafter provided under the nonconforming use provisions, and is intended
for the protection of those uses. No other uses will be permitted except by an
issued variance.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE." Any structure or use, other than the principal
structure or use, directly incident to or required for employment of the
permitted use of any premises, also as specifically designated under the zoning
district regulations of this chapter.
   "ADVERTISING SIGN." Any word, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numbers,
phrases, sentences, designs, pictures, emblems, devices (including
loudspeakers), trade names, or trademarks by which anything is made known, such
as are used to designate an individual, a firm, an association, a corporation,
a profession, a business, a service, a commodity, or a product, which are
visible from any public street or right-of-way and designed to attract
attention. The term "sign" shall not include the flag, pennant, or insignia of
any nation, state, local political unit, or of any political, educational,
charitable, philanthropic, civic, professional, religious, or like campaign,
drive, movement, or event.
   "ALLEY." A public passage or way affording a secondary means of vehicular
traffic access to abutting property and not intended for general traffic
circulation.
   "ALTERATION." Any change or addition to the supporting members or foundation
of a structure.
   "BUILDING." Any structure constructed or used for a residence, business,
industry, or other public or private purpose, and similar structures which
fully enclose space for occupancy by persons or their activities.
   "COMMERCIAL FLOOR AREA." Floor area of a building which is devoted to the
storage and display of merchandise, the performance of consumer services, or
the circulation and accommodation of customers.
   "CONDITIONAL USE." A use which is essential to or would promote the public
health, safety, or welfare in one or more zones, but which impair the integrity
and character of the zone in which it is located or in adjoining zones unless
restrictions on location, size, extent, and character of performance are
imposed in addition to those imposed in the zoning code.
   "CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT." Legal authorization to undertake a conditional
use, issued by the administrative official pursuant to authorization by the
Board of Zoning Adjustment consisting of two parts:
      (1)   A statement of the factual determination by the Board of Zoning
Adjustment which justifies the issuance of the permit.
      (2)   A statement of the special conditions which must be met in order
for the use to be permitted.
   "CONSUMER SERVICES." Sale of any service to individual customers for their
own personal benefit, enjoyment, or convenience, and for fulfillment of their
own personal needs. "CONSUMER SERVICES" may include the following types of
services: barber and beauty services, provision of lodging, entertainment,
financial services, automobile storage, transportation, laundry services, and
all other similar services.
   "DIMENSIONAL VARIANCE." Departure from the terms of the zoning code
pertaining to height or width of structures and size of yards and open spaces
where the departure will not be contrary to the public interest, and where
owing to conditions peculiar to the property because of its size, shape, or
topography, and not as a result of the action of the applicant, the literal
enforcement of the zoning code would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   "DWELLING." A building providing shelter, sanitation, and the amenities for
permanent habitation. It does not include temporary lodging or sleeping rooms.
   "ENFORCEMENT OFFICER." The administrative official designated by the Mayor
with approval of the City Council who shall be charged with and provided with
the authority to enforce the ordinances, regulations, codes, and orders of the
Planning Commission and the City Council.
       "FLOODPLAIN." Those areas subject to frequent periodic flooding and
delineated on the soil survey as alluvial soils by the Soil Conservation
Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, or lands delineated as floodplains by
the federal flood insurance program.
       "HOME OCCUPATIONS." Professional offices, studios, and personal services
maintained or conducted within a dwelling or accessory structure. Neither the
selling of any merchandise nor processing of any product shall qualify as a
"HOME OCCUPATION." "HOME OCCUPATIONS" include only those which meet the
following standards:
      (1)    "HOME OCCUPATIONS" shall be incidental to the principal
residential use.
      (2)    "HOME OCCUPATIONS" shall result in no exterior evidence except a
permitted sign, that the dwelling is used for a nonresidential use.
      (3)    "HOME OCCUPATIONS" shall not generate any atmospheric pollution,
light flashes, glare, odors, noise, vibration, or truck or other heavy traffic.
      (4)    Any activity in which the selling of any merchandise is the
primary function is not a "HOME OCCUPATION".
      (5)    "HOME OCCUPATIONS" shall occupy no more than 25% of the total
residential floor area of a dwelling.
       "INDUSTRY." The processing of products or raw materials. The two
categories of "INDUSTRY" are defined according to the following standards:
      (1)    "HEAVY INDUSTRY." Those industries whose processing operations
result in the outdoor storage or processing of materials or products, the
emission of any atmospheric pollution, visible light flashes or glare, odors,
noise or vibration which may be heard or felt off the premises, or those
industries which constitute a fire or explosive hazard.
      (2)    "LIGHT INDUSTRY." Those industries whose processing operations
result in none of the above conditions.
   "JUNKYARD." Property used for the outdoor storage, display, or keeping of
inoperative machinery or the accumulation of trash, waste material, or
vegetation, in a manner which is unsightly, offensive, or not in harmony with
surrounding property. The keeping of more than three inoperable vehicles shall
constitute a "JUNKYARD."
   "LOCAL INFORMATION SIGN." A sign indicating directions to a local
commercial, industrial, or other type business establishment.
   "LOT." A parcel of land under one ownership devoted to a common use or
occupied by a single principal building plus accessory structures.
      (1)    "CORNER LOT." A lot which abuts on two intersecting streets at
their intersection.
      (2)    "DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOT." Any lot other than a corner lot which abuts
on two streets.
      (3)    "LOT LINE." The boundary dividing a lot from a right-of- way,
adjoining lot, or other adjoining tract of land. Front, rear, and side lot
lines are self-explanatory.
              (4)    "LOT OF RECORD." A lot which is lawfully recorded in the
office of the County Clerk.
   "MANUFACTURED STRUCTURES."
              (1)     "MOBILE HOMES." A transportable building, which is
manufactured on a chasis or under carriage as an integral part thereof,
containing facilities for water, sewage, bath, and electrical connections.
"MOBILE HOME" is to include residential occupancy for family living purposes.
              (2)    "MODULAR." Designing of units of standard size, design and
the like, that can be arranged or fitted together in a variety of ways. Modular
units for family residence may be located in the R districts that will
accomodate them. Modular units for commercial uses may be located in the C
districts that are appropriate. A modular building, commercial or residential
in use, must be secured to a permanent (in ground) foundation.
       "MOBILE HOME PARK." A tract of land prepared and approved according to
the procedures in this zoning code and designed to accommodate more than one
mobile home.
       "MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION." A residential subdivision designed
exclusively for and occupied only by mobile homes and similar units designed
for transportation in which the homes and the lots are owned by the occupants.
       "NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE." A structure or use on any premises
which does not conform with all applicable provisions of the zoning code but
which existed before being designated as nonconforming by the adoption or
amendment of the zoning code.
       "NON-RETAIL COMMERCIAL." Commercial sales and services to customers who
intend resale of the products or merchandise sold or handled, such as
wholesaling, warehousing, truck terminals, and the like.
       "OFF-PREMISES SIGN." Any sign other than an on-premises sign.
       "ON-PREMISES SIGN." A sign relating in its subject matter to the
premises on which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or
activities on the premises. "ON-PREMISES SIGNS" do not include signs erected by
the outdoor advertising industry in the conduct of the outdoor advertising
business.
       "OUTDOOR" Refers to that which is not in a building.
       "PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT." A complex of structures and uses planned as
an integral unit of development rather than as single structures on single
lots.
       "PREMISES." A lot or other tract of land under one ownership and all the
structures on it.
       "PRINCIPAL BUILDING." A building, including covered porches, carports,
and attached garages, in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on
which it is situated. In any residential district any dwelling shall be deemed
to be the "PRINCIPAL BUILDING" on the lot on which same is situated.
       "PROCESSING." Manufacturing, reduction, extraction, packaging,
repairing, cleaning, and any other similar original or restorative treatment as
applied to raw materials, products, or personal property.
    "PROCESSING" does not include the fabrication of structures.
       "PUBLIC SERVICE BUILDING." Any building necessary for the operation and
maintenance of a utility.
       "RETAIL SALES." Sale of any product or merchandise to customers for
their own personal consumption or use and not for resale.
       "ROAD." A traffic-carrying way, which may be privately owned.
       "SIGN."
      (1)    Any device designed to inform or attract the attention of persons
not on the premises on which the sign is located. However, the following shall
not be included in the application of the sign regulations herein:
         (a)   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post office box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or
other identification of premises not having commercial connotations.
         (b)   Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion.
         (c)   Legal notices, identification, information, or directional signs
erected or required by government bodies.
         (d)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings
except letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights.
         (e)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private
property, but bearing no advertising matter and four square feet or less in
area.
      (2)    For the purpose of determining number of signs, a "SIGN" shall be
considered to be a single display surface or display device containing elements
organized, related, and composed to form a unit. Where matter is displayed in a
random matter without organized relationship of elements, or where there is
reasonable doubt about the relationship of elements, each element shall be
considered a single "SIGN."
      (3)    The surface area of a "SIGN" shall be computed as including the
entire area with a regular geometric form or combinations of regular geometric
forms and comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of
the elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not bearing
advertising matter shall not be included in the computation of surface area.
       "SLEEPING ROOM." A single room rented for dwelling purposes but without
the amenities for separate and independent housekeeping.
       "STREET." Any highway or other public traffic-carrying way.
       "STRUCTURE." Any combination of materials fabricated to fulfill a
function in a fixed location on the land. "STRUCTURES" include both buildings
and signs.
      "TRAILER." Any vehicle or similar portable structure used or so
constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance to transport cargo
other than persons upon the streets and highways. The term "TRAILER" does not
mean mobile home as defined in this section.
       "USE." Broadly refers to the activities which take place on any land or
premises and also refers to the structures located thereon and designed for
those activities.
       "VARIANCE." A departure from the strict conformance with the zoning
regulations which first must receive the approval of the Board of Zoning
Adjustment.
       "YARD." The open space surrounding the principal building on any lot and
measured between the front lot line and the principal building, which shall be
designated as the front yard line.
      (1)    "REAR YARD." That portion of the yard extending the full width of
the lot measured between the rear lot line and a parallel line tangent to the
nearest part of the principal building.
      (2)    "SIDE YARD." That portion of the yard extending from the front
yard to the rear yard and measured between the side lot lines and parallel
lines tangent to the nearest parts of the principal building.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86; Am. Ord. 8-1988, passed 7-19-88; Am. Ord. 7-
1993, passed 7-12-93)
§ 152.005 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   A proposal for amendment to this zoning code may originate with the
Planning Commission, the City Council, or with the owner of a property that may
be affected by any part herein. Interested parties may also request the
Planning Commission to change portions of this zoning code. The Planning
Commission shall hold at least one public hearing after notice as required by
KRS Chapter 424. The Planning Commission must make its recommendation within 30
days of the public hearing to the City Council. It shall take a majority of the
entire City Council to override the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
The City Council shall make a decision within 60 days of the Planning
Commission's recommendation.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing shall be posted conspicuously on the property
for which the zone change is being sought. The notice shall be posted for 14
consecutive days immediately prior to the hearing. Posting shall be as follows:
The sign shall state "zoning change" and the proposed classification change in
letters at least three inches in height. The time, place, and date of the
hearing shall be listed in letters at least one inch in height. The sign shall
also state the telephone number for the Planning Commission. The sign should be
made of a durable material and be weatherproof.
   (C)   Notice of the hearing shall be given at least 14 days in advance of
the hearing by registered mail, return receipt requested, to the owners of all
property adjoining the property for which a zone change is being sought. It
shall be the duty of the person proposing the zone change or amendment to
furnish the Planning Commission with the names and addresses of the owners of
all adjoining property and with the receipts of the notices as well as an
affidavit of publication.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.015 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER/BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   An Administrative Officer/Building Inspector shall be appointed by the
Mayor and shall administer and enforce this chapter. This official may be
provided with assistance of such other persons as the City Council and Planning
Commission may deem necessary. This would include planning consultants,
attorneys, and the like.
   (B)   If the Administrative Officer/Building Inspector shall find that any
of the provisions of this chapter are being violated, he shall notify in
writing the person responsible for the violation, indicating in precise
language the nature of the violation and ordering the action necessary to
correct the situation. He shall order discontinuance of illegal use of land,
buildings, or structures; removal of illegal structures or of illegal
additions, alterations, or structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal
work being done; or shall take any other action authorized by this chapter to
ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.016 BOARD OF ZONING ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Matters of the Board of Zoning Adjustment pertaining to appointment,
membership, terms of office, oath, compensation, removal of members, and
officers shall be carried out in accordance with the provision of KRS 100.217.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall adopt rules deemed necessary to
properly conduct its affairs and in order to keep with the provisions of this
chapter. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson who shall give
written or oral notice to all members of the Board of Zoning Adjustment at
least seven days prior to the meeting. This notice shall contain the date,
time, and place for the meeting and the subject or subjects to be discussed.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall keep minutes and records of all
proceedings including regulations, transactions, findings, and determinations
and the number of votes for and against each question, all of which shall be a
public record and filed in the office of the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.017 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Administrative review - appeals.
      (1)   Appeals to the Board of Zoning Adjustment may be taken by any
person, or entity claiming to be injuriously affected or aggrieved by an
official action, order, requirement, interpretation, grant, refusal, or
decision of the Administrative Officer/Building Inspector. This appeal shall be
taken within 30 days after the appellant or his agent receives notice of the
action of the Administrative Officer/Building Inspector by filing with the
Administrative Officer/Building Inspector and with the Board a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof, and giving notice of the appeal to any and all
parties of record. The Administrative Officer/Building Inspector shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken and shall be treated as and be the
respondent in such further proceedings. At the public hearing on the appeal
held by the Board, any interested person may appear and enter his appearance,
and all shall be given an opportunity to be heard. 
(KRS 100.261)
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for
hearing the appeal and give public notice in accordance with KRS Chapter 424,
as well as written notice to the appellant and the Administrative Officer/
Building Inspector at least one week prior to the hearing, and shall decide the
same within 60 days. The affected party may appear at the hearing in person or
by attorney.
      (3)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Administrative Officer/Building Inspector from whom
the appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Zoning Adjustment after the
notice of appeal is filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and
property.
      (4)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Zoning Adjustment or by
a court of record on application, or notice to the Administrative Officer/
Building Inspector from whom the appeal is taken or due cause shown.
   (B)   Conditional use permits.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall have the power to hear and
decide applications for conditional use permits to allow the proper integration
into the community of uses which are specifically named in this chapter which
may be suitable only in specific locations in the zone and only if certain
conditions are met.
(KRS 100.237)
      (2)   All districts. The following conditional uses only may be approved
in all zoning districts:
         (a)   Non-local public utility and private transmission lines and
pipes;
         (b)   Radio, television, and telephone transmission structures;
         (c)   Large utility structures and public service buildings;
         (d)   Government buildings and related uses;
         (e)   Churches and libraries.
      (3)   Specified districts. Other conditional uses may be approved only in
those zoning districts where they are designated as conditional uses under the
zoning district regulations.
      (4)   Procedure. An applicant shall submit an application for a
conditional use permit to the Administrative Officer/Building Inspector, and
the applicant shall follow all procedures set forth in this chapter and KRS
100.237. The Administrative Officer/Building Inspector shall refer the
application to the Board of Zoning Adjustment. Payment of a fee shall be
required of the applicant before the issuance of the conditional use permit.
Other regulations for conditional use permits are as follows:
         (a)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may attach necessary conditions
such as time limitations, requirements that certain things be done before the
request can be initiated, or conditions of a continuing nature. Any such
conditions shall be recorded in the Board's minutes and on the conditional use
permit, along with reference to the specific section in the zoning regulation
listing the conditional use under consideration. The Board of Zoning Adjustment
shall have the power to revoke conditional use permits or variances for
noncompliance with the conditions thereof. Furthermore, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall have the right of action to compel offending structures or
uses removed at the expense of the violator and may have judgment for the
costs.
(KRS 100.237(1))
         (b)   1.   Granting of a conditional use permit does not exempt the
applicant from complying with all other requirements of this chapter, as well
as other codes and regulations.
            2.   If the applicant submits a modified plan to the relevant
regulatory authorities in order to comply with all of the requirements of
building, housing, and other regulations that expands the applicant's
conditional use beyond the previously established geographic boundaries of the
original conditional use permit, then the expanded conditional use shall be
reviewed by the board. This review shall be limited to an examination solely of
the expanded geographic boundaries of the modified plan. The board may deny the
applicant's conditional use permit for the expanded geographic area.
            3.   The applicant shall have the duty of informing the board of
modifications made in accordance with division (B)(4)(b)2. of this section,
within 14 days of their submission. The applicant's failure to provide the
Board with notification shall be grounds for the Board to revoke the
conditional use permit, after a hearing before the Board. (KRS 100.237(2))
(KRS 100.237(2))
         (c)   A conditional use permit shall be exercised within one year from
the date of issuance as required by KRS 100.237(3)).
         (d)   The Administrative Officer/Building Inspector shall review all
conditional use permits, except for those for which all conditions have been
permanently satisfied, at least once annually, and shall have the power to
inspect the land or structure where the conditional use is located in order to
determine that the landowner is complying with all the conditions listed on the
conditional use permit. If the landowner is not complying with all of the
listed conditions, the Administrative Officer/Building Inspector shall report
the fact in writing to the Chairperson of the Board of Zoning Adjustment. The
report shall state specifically the manner in which the landowner is not
complying with the condition on the conditional use permit and a copy of the
report shall be furnished to the landowner at the same time that it is
furnished to the Chairperson of the Board. Upon hearing the report, as required
by KRS 100.237(4), if the Board of Zoning Adjustment finds the facts alleged in
the report to be true and that the landowner has taken no steps to comply with
them between the date of the report and the date of the hearing, the Board of
Zoning Adjustment may authorize the Administrative Officer/Building Inspector
to revoke the conditional use permit and to cause the termination of the
activity on the land which the conditional use permit authorizes.
(KRS 100.237(4))
         (e)   Once the Board of Zoning Adjustment has completed a conditional
use permit and all the conditions required are of such type that they can be
completely and permanently satisfied, the Administrative Officer/Building
Inspector, upon the request of the applicant, may make a determination that the
conditions have been satisfied, and enter the facts which indicate that the
conditions have been satisfied and the conclusion in the margin of the copy of
the conditional use permit which is on file with the County Clerk, as required
in KRS 100.329. Thereafter, the use, if it continues to meet the other
requirements of the regulations, will be treated as a permitted use.
(KRS 100.237(5))
         (f)   When an application is made for a conditional use permit for
land located within or abutting any residential zoning district, written notice
shall be given at least 14 days in advance of the public hearing on the
application to the applicant, Enforcement Officer, an owner of every parcel of
property adjoining the property to which the application applies and such other
persons as this chapter or the Board of Zoning Adjustment bylaws shall direct.
Written notice shall be by first class mail with certification by the Board's
Secretary or other officer that the notice was mailed. It shall be the duty of
the applicant to furnish to the Board the name and address of an owner of each
parcel of property as described in this division. Records maintained by the
Property Valuation Administrator may be relied upon to determine the identity
and address of said owner. In the event such property is in condominium or
cooperative forms of ownership, then the person notified by mail shall be the
president or chairperson of the owner group which administers property commonly
owned by the condominium or cooperative owners.
(KRS 100.237(6))
         (g)   As required by KRS 100.329, a copy of all conditional use
permits must be filed with the County Court Clerk at the applicant's expense.
   (C)   Dimensional variance.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall have the power to hear and
decide on applications for dimensional variances where by reasons of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or unusual shape of a site on the
effective date of the zoning regulation or by reason of exceptional topographic
conditions, or some other extraordinary situation or condition of that site,
the literal enforcement of the dimensional requirements (height, width, and the
like) of the zoning regulation would deprive the applicant of reasonable
capacity to make use of the land in a manner equivalent to the use permitted
other landowners in the same zone. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may impose
any reasonable conditions or restrictions on any variance it may decide to
grant.
      (2)   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted by
the Board of Zoning Adjustment unless and until:
         (a)   A written application for a variance is submitted which
demonstrates:
            l.    The specific conditions in detail which are unique to the
applicant's land and do not exist on other land in the same zone.
            2.    The manner in which the strict application of the provisions
of the regulation would deprive the applicant of a reasonable use of the land
in a manner equivalent to the use permitted other landowners in the same zone.
            3.    That the unique conditions and circumstances are not the
result of actions of the applicant taken subsequent to the adoption of the
zoning regulations.
            4.    Reasons that the variance will preserved, not harm the public
safety and welfare, and will not alter the essential character of the area.
         (b)   Notice of public hearing shall be given as provided in KRS
Chapter 424.
         (c)   A public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person
or be represented by agent or attorney.
         (d)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall make findings that the
requirements of division (a) have been met by the applicant. The Board of
Zoning Adjustment shall further make a finding that the reasons set forth in
the original application justify the granting of the variance, and that these
findings shall be recorded along with any imposed conditions or resolutions in
its minutes and records and issued in written form to the applicant to
constitute proof of the dimensional variance.
   (D)   In exercising the above mentioned powers, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment may, in conformity with the terms of this chapter, reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination appealed from and make such order, requirement, decision, or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have the powers of the
Administrative Officer/Building Inspector from whom the appeal is taken.
   (E)   Where the street or lot layout actually on the ground, or as recorded,
differs from the street and lot lines indicated on the zoning map, the Board of
Zoning Adjustment, after notice to the owners of the property and after an
appropriate public hearing, shall interpret the map in such a manner as to
fully carry out the intent and purpose of this zoning code for the particular
section or district in question.
   (F)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may attach special conditions to any
decision it is authorized to make to ensure that the full intent of the zoning
code will be carried out.
   (G)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall act only within the strict limits
of its authority as defined in the zoning code. The Board of Zoning Adjustment
shall not possess the power to grant a variance to permit a use of any land,
building, or structure which is not permitted by the zoning regulation in the
zone in question, or to alter density requirements in the zone in question.
   (H)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall not allow the enlargement,
substitution, or extension of a nonconforming use beyond the scope and area of
its operation at the time the regulation which makes its use nonconforming was
adopted. Nor shall the Board of Zoning Adjustment permit a change from one
nonconforming use to another unless the new nonconforming use is in the same or
a more restricted classification.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.018 APPEALS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of interpretation
and enforcement shall be first presented to the Administrative Officer/Building
Inspector, and that these questions shall be presented to the Board of Zoning
Adjustment only on appeal from the decision of the Administrative Officer/
Building Inspector, and that recourse from the decisions of the Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall be to the courts as provided by law and particularly KRS
100.347.
   (B)   It is further the intent of this chapter that the duties of the
governing bodies in connection with this chapter shall not include hearing and
making decisions on questions of interpretation and enforcement which may
arise. The procedure for deciding such questions shall be stated in this
chapter. Under this chapter the governing bodies shall have only the duty of
considering and adopting or rejecting proposed amendments or the repeal of this
chapter, as provided by law.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.019 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND EXPENSES.
       (A)   The City Council does hereby grant the Planning Commission and the
Board of Zoning Adjustment the power to establish a reasonable schedule of
fees, charges, and expenses and a collection procedure for certificates of
zoning compliance, appeals, application for amendments, and other matters
pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office
of the Administrative Officer/Building Inspector, and may be altered or amended
as seen fit by those respective bodies.
       (B)   Until all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in
full, no action shall be taken on any matter pertaining to this chapter.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.020 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this zoning code occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. The complaint, stating fully
the causes and basis thereof, shall be filed with the Administrative Officer/
Building Inspector. He shall record the complaint properly, immediately
investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.021 CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any use of land or structure existing at the time of enactment or subsequent
amendment of this chapter, but not in conformity with its provisions, may be
continued with the following limitations:
       (A)   No structure containing a nonconforming use shall be expanded or
substantially remodeled unless approved by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
Before granting this approval, the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall determine
that the proposed expansion or remodeling will not result in greater detriment
to the surrounding properties. In no case shall an expansion be approved beyond
the property limits of the nonconforming use existing at the time of adoption
of this chapter.
   (B)   No nonconforming use may be reestablished after it has been
discontinued for one year. Vacating of premises or building or nonoperative
status shall be evidence of a discontinued use.
   (C)   No nonconforming use may be changed to any other nonconforming use
unless the Board of Zoning Adjustment shall find that the proposed
nonconforming use is less detrimental to the zoning district than the existing
nonconforming use of the property. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may specify
those appropriate conditions and safeguards as may be required in connection
with such changes.
   (D)   The provisions of §
152.017(C) shall not apply to residences in industrial districts.
   (E)   All nonconforming mobile homes may not be re-established after
discontinued use as defined pursuant to division (C) of this section stating,
that no nonconforming use may be re-established after it has been discontinued
for one year. Vacating of premises or building of nonoperative status shall be
evidence of a discontinued use.
   (F)   In the event that a non-conforming home is destroyed beyond repair, a
replacement home may be constructed in its place for continued use. The
replacement home may be the same size as the one being replaced or a larger
home may be constructed if the minimum yard dimensions are met, according to
Ordinance No. 14-1986, 609 SCHEDULE OF DIMENSION AND AREA REQUIREMENTS in all
R-Districts.
   (G)   Non-conforming homes that existed before enactment of said ordinance
may be upgraded or replaced with a home of the same size or a larger home may
be constructed if the minimum yard dimensions are met according to Ordinance
No. 14-1989, 609 SCHEDULE OF DIMENSION AND AREA REQUIREMENTS in all R-
Districts.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86; Am. Ord. 3-1988, passed 2-18-88; Am. Ord. 7-
1993, passed 7-12-93; Am. Ord. 9- 1993, passed 10-11-93)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.022 CHARGE FOR ZONE CHANGES.
   The City Council does hereby approve that the property owner shall pay for
all expenses incurred for a zone change.
(Ord. 4-1990, passed 6-11-90)
PERMITS AND PROCEDURES
§ 152.030 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to, or
altered without a permit therefor, to be issued by the Administrative Officer/
Building Inspector. No building permit shall be issued except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, unless he receives a written order from
the Board of Zoning Adjustment in the form of an administrative review,
conditional use, or variance as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   If no building permit has been issued and a builder begins or
continues to build, a restraining order may be obtained upon application to the
proper court of record to halt any work found to be in violation of the
provisions of this chapter. The lack of a building permit shall establish a
prima facie case for the issuance of the restraining order.
(KRS 100.267)
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86; Am. Ord. 6-2005, passed 6-13-05)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.031 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by plans or
specifications. Plans shall be in duplicate and drawn to scale, showing the
actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes and
locations on the lot of any existing structures, if any; and the location and
dimensions of the proposed buildings or alterations. The application shall
include other information as required by the Planning Commission. This may
include existing and proposed uses of the buildings and land; the number of
families, dwelling units, or rental units the building is designed to
accommodate; conditions existing on the lot or on adjoining lots; and those
other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with, and provide
for the enforcement of, this chapter.
   (B)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
Administrative Officer/Building Inspector after he shall have marked that copy
as either approved or disapproved and shall be attested to same by his
signature on the returned copy. The remaining copy of the plans, also marked as
approved or disapproved, shall be retained by the Administrative Officer/
Building Inspector.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.032 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY FOR NEW, ALTERED, OR NONCONFORMING USES.
   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building, premises, or both, or part thereof hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the
Administrative Officer/Building Inspector stating that the proposed use of the
building or land conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86) Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 152.033 EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   If the work described in any building permit has not begun within 120
days from the date of issuance, the building permit shall expire. It shall be
cancelled by the Administrative Officer/Building Inspector with written notice
being given to the parties affected.
   (B)   If the work described in a building permit has not been substantially
completed within two years of the date of issuance of the permit, the building
permit shall expire and be cancelled by the Administrative Officer/Building
Inspector, again with written notice given to the party affected, together with
notice that further work as described in the cancelled permit shall not proceed
unless and until a new building permit has been issued as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.034 CONSTRUCTION, USE TO BE AS PROVIDED IN APPLICATIONS, PLANS, PERMITS,
AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   Building permits or certificates of occupancy issued on the basis of plans
and applications approved by the Administrative Officer/Building Inspector
authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in those
approved plans and applications, and no other use, arrangement, or
construction. Use, arrangement, or construction at variance with that
authorized shall be deemed violation of this chapter, and punishable as
provided herein.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 152.040 COORDINATION WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In all cases where the ownership of land is divided for the purpose of
eventual development of lots of any kind, whether residential, commercial, or
industrial, the subdivision regulations, and amendments thereto, shall apply in
addition to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Along any arterial street where subdivided land and its minor streets
are not sufficiently developed to permit acceptably spaced access points, the
Planning Commission may approve the platting of temporary access points and may
require that those temporary access points be eliminated by the developer when
minor streets or marginal access streets are extended to the approved permanent
access points. These requirements shall be listed as special conditions on the
final recorded plat. Access points shall also meet federal and state standards
where applicable.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
                
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision regulations, see
Chapter 151
§ 152.041 WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   No building shall be constructed or occupied unless the water supply
and sewage disposal facilities have been approved by the Water and Sewer
Department and the appropriate local health official.
   (B)   Whenever water or sewer is readily accessible, buildings to be
occupied shall be connected to these lines. In every other case, individual
water supply and sewage disposal facilities must meet the requirements set
forth by this chapter and by the local health department.
   (C)   In addition to the health department requirements, the following shall
apply:
      (1)   The following provisions are primarily intended to allow the
construction of rural, scattered lot housing development. The demand for this
type of development is recognized but is not encouraged in the urbanized area
outlined in the city's comprehensive plan due to the difficulty and overall
inefficiency in providing requisite public services.
      (2)   Public water not accessible. In areas where a public water supply
system is not accessible, lots for single-family residences utilizing a septic
tank disposal system shall be at least five acres in size.
      (3)   Public water accessible. Where an approved public water system is
accessible, lots for single-family residences utilizing a septic tank disposal
system shall be at least one acre, with a minimum lot width of 150 feet.
      (4)   Multi-family and nonresidential uses. Lot areas and type of sewage
treatment for multi-family residences and nonresidential uses shall be
determined by the Planning Commission on an individual basis. The Planning
Commission shall make their determination based upon percolation tests,
estimated quality and quantity of effluent, possible pollution of adjacent
land, future possibility of serving the area, and other factors deemed
important by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may require the
developer to submit technical data and opinions from various professional
sources to aid them in their determination of lot size and treatment
procedures.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.042 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On a corner lot in any zoning district, nothing shall be erected, placed,
planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision
between a height of two feet and 12 feet. The area shall be bounded by the
right-of-way lines of the corner lots and a line joining points along the
right-of-way lines.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.043 FENCES, WALLS, AND HEDGES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, fences, walls, and
hedges may be permitted in any yard or along the edge of any yard.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.044 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No accessory building shall be erected in any yard other than a rear
yard; provided that an accessory building may be erected as part of the
principal building and shall be at least six feet from the principal building.
It may be connected by a breezeway or some similar structure, provided all yard
and court requirements of this chapter for a principal building are complied
with.
   (B)   That accessory buildings shall not exceed the height of the principle
structure. In no case shall an accessory building exceed 20 feet in height
measured at mid-gable and be a distance of at least five feet from real
property lines, and at least five feet from lot lines of adjoining lots in a
residential district, provided that an accessory building may be constructed
adjacent to a side or rear lot line as provided by this section.
   (C)   That accessory buildings in residential zones shall not exceed the lot
coverage of the building(s) to which they are accessory. The maximum height of
accessory buildings in residential zones shall not exceed the requirements of §
403.3(B). The total size of all buildings accessory to dwelling units shall be
limited to no more than 50% of the total square footage of the building to
which they are accessory, or 625 square feet, whichever is greater.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the measurement shall be as follows:
The “height” of a wall of a structure of a part of a building is the mean
vertical distance from the average established grade in front of the lot; or
from the average nature grade at the building line, if higher, to the average
height of the top of the cornice of a flat roof or floorline; or to the deck
line of a mansard roof; or to the middle height of the highest gable or dormer
in a pitched or hipped roof; or if there are no gables or dormers, to the
middle height of such pitched or hipped roof.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86; Am. Ord. 6-2003, passed 3-10-03)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.045 REGULATIONS FOR LOTS AND YARDS.
   (A)   Construction of more than one principal structure on a lot. In any
district, more than one structure which houses a permissible use may be
constructed on a single lot, provided that yard and other requirements of this
chapter shall be met for each structure as though it were on an individual lot.
   (B)   Front yard regulations for corner and double-frontage lots. Corner
lots and double-frontage lots shall as a minimum, on both of the adjacent
streets, meet the front yard regulations of the district in which they are
located.
   (C)   Application of yards to one building only. No part of a yard required
for any building may be included as fulfilling the yard requirements for an
adjacent building.
   (D)   Yard requirements along less restricted district boundary line. Along
any zoning boundary line, any abutting side yard, rear yard, or court area on a
lot adjoining the boundary line in the less restricted district shall have a
minimum width and minimum depth for yards and courts in the more restricted
district.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.046 EXCEPTION TO HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   The height limitations contained in the schedule of district regulations
shall not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks,
ventilators, chimneys, or other appurtenances usually required to be placed
above the roof level and not intended for any human occupancy, including
agricultural buildings.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.047 STRUCTURE ACCESS.
   Every building hereafter constructed or moved shall be on a lot adjoining a
public street for at least 25 feet or with access to an approved private
street, and all structures shall be located on lots as to provide safe and
convenient access for service, fire protection, and off-street parking.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.048 MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING.
   In the case of multi-family housing of two or more buildings to be
constructed on a parcel of ground, not subdivided into the customary streets
and lots, and which will not be so subdivided or where the existing or planned
streets and lot layout make it impracticable to apply the requirements of this
chapter to the individual building units in such housing, the application of
the terms of this chapter may be varied by the Planning Commission in a manner
which will be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood. In no case
shall the Planning Commission authorize a use prohibited in the zoning district
in which the housing is to be located, or a smaller lot area per family than
the minimum required in such a district. Neither public hearing nor action by
the Planning Commission or City Council is required for authorization, but the
Planning Commission may impose conditions in keeping with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.049 JUNKYARDS.
   Junkyards are designated as permitted uses only in I-3 Heavy Industrial
Districts. They shall conform with this chapter prescribing regulations for
nonconforming uses. The Administrative Officer/Building Inspector shall ensure
that all existing junkyards maintain valid permits to operate issued by the
Kentucky Transportation Cabinet, Department of Highways, as required by KRS
177.905 through 177.990 and shall ensure that all screening required is
maintained as long as the junkyard remains in operation.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 152.060 PARKING, STORAGE, AND USE OF MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT." Includes boats and boat trailers, travel
trailers, pick-up campers, motor homes, tent trailers, and the like, and cases
or boxes used for transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied by such
equipment or not.
   (B)   No major recreational equipment shall be parked or stored in the front
yard on any lot in a residential district or in the side yard where possible to
store otherwise, with the exception that such equipment may be parked anywhere
on residential premises for not to exceed 24 hours during loading or unloading.
No major recreational equipment shall be used for living, sleeping, or
housekeeping purposes when parked or stored on a residential lot, or in any
location not approved for this use, excluding visitation purposes.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.061 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current license
plates shall not be parked or stored on any residentially zoned property other
than in an enclosed building.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.062 LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   In all districts in connection with every building or part thereof
hereafter constructed, having a gross floor area of 10,000 square feet or more
which is to be occupied for manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods, display,
retail store, wholesale store, market, hotel, medical facility, mortuary,
laundry, or other uses which may require the receiving and distribution of
vehicles of materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on
the same premises with the building at least one off-street loading space for
each 20,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   (B)   Each loading space shall not be less than ten feet in width, 25 feet
in length, and 14 feet in height if covered.
   (C)   A loading space may occupy all or any part of any required yard,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No loading space shall be located
closer than 50 feet to any other lot. A loading space shall be easily
accessible by roadways and shall be constructed so as to avoid traffic-related
problems on public roadways.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.063 PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   In all zoning districts, except the C-3 Central Business District, there
shall be provided at the time any building or structure is constructed or
enlarged, off-street parking spaces, either in a garage or in a parking area
which conforms to this section. Off-street parking shall be provided in
accordance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Number of parking spaces required.
Use Unit of Measurement Parking Spaces Required Per Unit
Use                      Unit of Measurement       Parking Spaces Required Per
                                                   Unit
Single-family dwelling   Each dwelling unit        One
Two-family dwelling      Each dwelling unit        One and one-half
Multi-family dwelling    Each dwelling unit        Two
Rooming/boarding house   Each room                 One
Motels                   Each room                 One
                         Each employee             One
Private clubs, lodges    Each four members         One
Hospitals, Nursing homes Each four beds            One
                         Each four employees       One
                         Each staff member         One
Medical/dental clinics   Each doctor, dentist, or  Five
                         professional practitioner
Churches                 Each five seats           One
 
Use Unit of Measurement Parking Spaces Required Per Unit
Use                        Unit of Measurement        Parking Spaces Required
                                                      Per Unit
Non-school sports          Each five seats            One
facilities
School auditorium          Each ten seats             One
Dance, assembly, or        Each 100 square feet of
exhibition hall without    floor space                One
fixed seats
Library, community         Gross floor area           50% of gross floor area
building
Banks, business or         Gross floor area           150% of gross floor area
professional offices
Funeral homes              Each five seats under      One
                           maximum seating conditions
                           Each funeral vehicle       One
                           Each dwelling unit         One
Laundromats, and the like  Each two machines          One
Restaurants, inns, and the Gross floor area           50% of gross floor area
like
Retail stores having less
than 2,500 square feet of  Gross floor area           50% of gross floor area
gross floor area
Furniture, appliance, and  Gross floor area           50% of gross floor area
hardware stores
Retail stores having a
gross floor area in square Gross floor area
feet between:
   2,500 - 5,000                                   60% of gross floor area
   5,001 - 10,000                                  80% of gross floor area
   10,000 - 15,000                                 100% of gross floor area
   15,000 - 20,000                                 150% of gross floor area
 
                                                                  Parking
Use                                                  Unit of      Spaces
                                                     Measurement  Required Per
                                                                  Unit
   20,001 - 30,000                                             200% of gross
                                                                  floor area
   30,001 - 40,000                                             250% of gross
                                                                  floor area
   40,001 - 50,000                                             300% of gross
                                                                  floor area
   Over 50,000                                                 350% of gross
                                                                  floor area
Manufacturing uses:
   Less than 2,000 square feet or less than four               Six
employees
                                                     Each
                                                     employee on
                                                     the maximum
   More than 2,000 square feet and more than four work shift   One
employees                                            and for each
                                                     company-
                                                     owned
                                                     vehicle
 
   In the case of any use which is not specifically listed, the provisions for
a similar use which is cited shall apply. The Planning Commission shall review
the parking provisions indicated on a particular development plan keeping these
guidelines in mind.
   (B)   Development and maintenance requirements. Every parcel of land
hereafter used as a parking area shall be developed and maintained in
accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Each off-street parking space shall have an area of not less than
160 square feet exclusive of any access drives or aisles, and shall be of a
usable shape and surface and have convenient and safe ingress and egress. Any
aisles or access drives shall be designed so as to provide adequate vehicular
maneuvering area upon the property being served. Off-street parking shall be
discouraged which requires the backing onto or maneuvering within any public
right-of-way.
      (2)   Where parking areas are provided for five or more vehicles, they
shall be improved with an asphalt, bituminous, or concrete surface, so as to be
durable and dustless, unless located 200 feet or more from the nearest
residential structure, in which case any dust reduction treatment will suffice.
All parking areas which fall into this category shall be graded and drained so
as to adequately dispose of all surface water.
      (3)   Any lighting used to illuminate parking areas shall be so arranged
as to reflect away from any adjoining premises in any adjacent residential
areas.
      (4)   All parking spaces and facilities shall be located in close
proximity to the building or structure it serves.
      (5)   No part of any parking area for more than five vehicles shall be
closer than ten feet to any dwelling, school, or institution for human care
unless screened in some manner.
   (C)   Exceptions. In those districts zoned commercial or industrial, where
private or semi-public interests acquire, develop, and maintain parking areas
for the joint use of their establishments, or where the city or county provides
parking spaces within a reasonable distance of these establishments, the Board
of Zoning Adjustment may modify and waive the parking requirements for certain
uses in the area concerned.
   (D)   Restricted business/industrial automobile parking. The establishment
and operation of a restricted accessory parking area may be authorized by the
Board of Zoning Adjustment as a conditional use in such parts of any multi-
family residential zone as abut, either directly or across a street from any
commercial or industrial zone or any institutional building nonconforming in a
residential district, subject to the following conditions and requirements:
      (1)   The parking area shall be accessory to and for the use in
connection with one or more business or industrial establishments located in an
adjoining business or industrial district, or in connection with one or more
existing institutional buildings on adjoining premises.
      (2)   The parking area shall be situated on premises not less than 5,000
square feet in area.
      (3)   The parking area shall be used solely for the parking of
automobiles. No commercial repair work or service of any kind shall be
conducted, and no charge shall be made for parking. No sign of any kind, other
than that designating ownership, entrances, exits, and conditions of use, shall
be maintained on these parking areas.
      (4)   Each entrance and exit shall be at least 20 feet from any adjacent
residential lot line.
      (5)   The parking area shall be subject to all the requirements of this
section concerning surfaces, lighting, screening, setbacks, and the like.
      (6)   Any permit issued by the Administrative Officer/Building Inspector
for such a parking area may be revoked any time that the above requirements are
not met, and any permittee who uses premises to which the permit relates in
violation of any of the conditions, specified by this section or fixed to such
a permit, shall be deemed in violation of this chapter and thereby subject to
penalties.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.064 GARAGES, PUBLIC PARKING LOTS, SERVICE STATIONS, AND AUTOMOBILE SALE
LOTS.
   (A)   No building, structure, or premises shall be used, constructed, or
altered which is intended or designed to be used as a public parking lot, an
automobile repair shop, or service station, having an entrance or exit for
vehicles in the same block front and within 200 feet of any school, public
playground, church, or other institution for dependents or children, and no
such entrance or exit shall be located within 20 feet of any residential
district.
   (B)   No gasoline pump, oil draining pit, or visible appliance for any
purpose shall be located within 12 feetof any street lot line or within 50 feet
of any residential district, except where the pump, pit, or appliance is within
a building and a distance of at least 12 feet from any vehicular entrance or
exit of the building.
   (C)   Every parcel of land hereafter used as an automobile or trailer sales
lot or as a service station shall be subject to the requirements of §
152.063, concerning surfacing, lighting, screening, and the like, and shall be
considered in the application thereof, as the equivalent of a parking area for
more than five vehicles.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
SIGNS
§ 152.075 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to permit those signs that will not, by
reason of their size, location, construction, or manner of display, endanger
life or limb, confuse or mislead traffic, obstruct vision necessary for traffic
safety, or otherwise endanger public morals, health, or safety; and further to
regulate permitted signs in a manner as to prevent them from causing an
annoyance or disturbance to the residents and visitors of the city.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.076 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   On-premise signs are permitted as follows:
   (A)   Residential zoning districts. Ground pole and wall signs are permitted
subject to the following:
      (1)   Nameplate signs shall not exceed two square feet in total area.
      (2)   Identification signs for institutional use shall not exceed 32
square feet in total area.
      (3)   Nonconforming business signs in residential zones shall not
aggregate more than 150 square feet in area.
      (4)   Professional office district permitted signs may have two
identification signs that do not exceed 24 square feet each.
      (5)   Real estate sales signs are permitted provided there is only one
sign for each individual property for sale. These signs should be removed upon
sale of the property. These signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in area or
four feet in height.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial zoning districts. The following contains the
on-premise sign regulation for commercial districts. Those on-premise signs
that are directed and situated so as to identify the business to interstate
traffic may exceed the limitations, as herein established, only to the extent
that the height and area can be made visible from the interstate and only as
permitted by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.077 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited:
   (A)   Permanent signs that incorporate in any manner any flashing or moving
lights, except time and temperature signs.
   (B)   Banners, pennants, spinners, and streamers except where the Board of
Zoning Adjustment authorizes a temporary variance for a promotion or public
benefit.
   (C)   String lighting or any unshielded light that is visible by the public
from a public street, and is used in connection with commercial premises for
commercial purposes, other than Christmas decorations.
   (D)   Any sign which has any visible moving part, visible revolving parts,
or visible mechanical movement.
   (E)   Any sign which obstructs or detracts from the visibility of any
traffic sign or traffic-control device on public streets and roads, by reason
of size, location, coloring, or illumination.
   (F)   Any sign or sign structure which is structurally unsafe; constitutes a
hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidated
condition, or abandonment; is not kept in good repair; or is capable of causing
electrical shock to persons who may come into contact with it.
   (G)   Signs which make use of words such as "stop", "look", "danger",
"yield", or other similar words, phrases, symbols, or characters in such a
manner as to imply the need or requirement of stopping or the existence of
danger.
   (H)   Portable signs, folding signs, or any other similar free- standing
signs not permanently anchored or secured to either a building or the ground.
These type signs may be permitted upon being granted a temporary variance if
the sign is to be used for a public benefit.
   (I)   Free-standing signs that extend or are built over public property.
   (J)   Temporary window feature signs using more than 50% of a window in a
commercial district.
   (K)   Wall signs painted on the side of a building.
   (L)   Any sign extending more than 40 feet above the base of a structure.
   (M)   Any sign other than governmental traffic-control signs or devices that
is or would be located in the right-of-way of any street or highway.
   (N)   Any poster, including political campaign posters, on public property
including utility poles.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
LANDSCAPING
§ 152.090 STATEMENT OF INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to provide for the
utilization of landscaping techniques for the purpose of improving the
aesthetic and functional quality of new development and to minimize the
conflicts which may occur between incompatible land uses, as granted to the
Planning Commission by KRS 100.201, 100.203 and 100.281. Should the
requirements in this subchapter be found in conflict with other ordinances, the
most stringent regulation shall apply.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86; Am. Ord. 5-2005, passed 5-9-05)
§ 152.091 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Landscape categories. The following table describes the various land
use relationships governed by these regulations. The landscape requirements
herein are keyed to the table in division (B) of this section.
Where This Use Adjoins This Use Applicable Landscape Buffer Categories
                                                             Applicable
Where This Use Adjoins                         This Use      Landscape Buffer
                                                             Categories
      (1)   Single-family             Multi-family/ 2
                                               mobile home
      (2)   Duplex                    Multi-family/ 2
                                               mobile home
      (3)   Agriculture, single-familyCommercial/   3
                                               industrial
      (4)   Multi-family              Mobile home   1
      (5)   Commercial                Industrial    1
      (6)   All residential           Major highway 5
      (7)   Commercial                Major highway 6
      (8)   Industrial                Major highway 6
      (9)   Vehicular use all zones   Any right-of- 7
                                               way
                                               Utility
                                               substations,
                                               landfills,
      (10)   All zones                junkyards,    8
                                               sewage
                                               treatment
                                               plants, or
                                               similar use
 
   (B)   Landscape buffer. This table describes the landscaping requirements
for the buffer areas between those land use activities listed in division (A)
of this section.
Minimum Landscaping Requirements
Landscape
Buffer    Minimum Width Trees      Bushes          Ground Cover  Barrier
Category
                        40 ft on   4 ft continuous grass or low  6 ft. solid
1         10 feet       center     or Barrier      shrub         fence, wall or
                                                                 earth berm
                                   4-6 feet
                        same as    continuous      same as       same as
2         10 feet       category 1 hedge or 3 feet category 1    category 1
                                   hedge on earth
                                   berm
                                   4-6 feet
                                   continuous
3         15 feet       same as    hedge or        same as       6 foot wall or
                        category 1 intermittent    category 1    fence
                                   planting with
                                   wall or fence
4         10 feet       same as    same as         grass         same as
                        category 1 category 3                    category 3
                                   6 feet
5         20 feet       same as    continuous only same as       same as
                        category 1 with fence      category 1    category 3
                                   barrier
6         10 feet       same as    same as         same as       same as
                        category 1 category 1      category 1    category 1
7         5 feet        same as    same as         grass, mulch, same as
                        category 1 category 3      crushed stone category 1
                        same as    6 feet                        same as
8         15 feet       category 1 continuous      grass         category 3
                                   hedge
 
   (C)   Location of landscape buffers. The easements described in categories
1, 2, 3, and 4 in division (A) shall apply to all common boundaries. The
easements described in categories 5, 6, and 7 shall apply to the property line
adjacent to a limited access freeway or a public right-of-way. Buffers
described in category 8 shall apply to all boundaries of the stated land use
activities.
   (D)   Relationship to yard requirements. The landscape buffers shall be
provided in addition to the minimum yard requirements of the appropriate zone.
   (E)   Responsibility for providing buffer. The landscape buffers shall be
provided as a condition of development by the owner or developer of the
property which creates the incompatible situation.
   (F)   Inclusion on subdivision plat. Areas to be set aside for landscape
buffers shall be shown on preliminary subdivision plats.
   (G)   Easement conflicts. Where landscape buffers are required in the same
location as utility easements, the two may be combined to the greatest extent
possible.
   (H)   Provision of planting materials and barriers. Trees, bushes, ground
covers, and barriers shall be required or shown on a final subdivision plat
which shall be provided by the owner or developer and considered as any other
site improvement.
   (I)   Quality and type of planting. All planting materials shall be living
and not artificial plants. They should preferably be native to the area and
suitable for site conditions. Use should be made of on- site planting to the
greatest extent possible.
   (J)   Maintenance. The property owner shall be responsible for all continued
maintenance and replacement of all landscaping materials. Buffers shall be kept
free of refuse and debris. Any dead plantings shall be replaced during the next
planting season.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86; Am. Ord. 5-2005, passed 5-9-05)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.092 ENFORCEMENT OF LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements of this subchapter will be administered by the Planning
Commission and enforced by the appointed Administrative Officer/Building
Inspector. No certificate of occupancy permit shall be issued until the
required landscaping is completed and certified by the Administrative Officer/
Building Inspector.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.093 VARIANCES.
   In those individual situations where, by reason of exceptional topographic,
dimensional, shape, or other special or extraordinary site conditions, the
enforcement of this subchapter would create an undue hardship on the applicant,
that applicant may appeal to the Board of Zoning Adjustment for relief from
specific provisions.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.100 ESTABLISHMENT AND DESIGNATION OF DISTRICTS.
   The city is divided into zoning districts as shown on the zoning map and
hereinafter described:
R-1  Single-family Residential District
R-2  Duplex and Single-family Residential District
R-3  Medium Density Multi-family Residential District
R-4  High Density Multi-family Residential District
P-1  Professional Office and Residential District
C-1  Neighborhood Commercial District
C-2  Highway Commercial District
C-3  Central Business District
C-4  General Commercial District
I-1  Light Industrial District
I-2  Medium Industrial District
I-3  Heavy Industrial District
H    Historic District
FP/C Floodplain/Conservation District
A    Agricultural District
MH   Mobile Home District
P/SP Public/Semi-public District
 
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.101 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The following rules will be used to interpret the exact location of the
zoning district boundaries shown on the zoning map:
   (A)   Where a zoning district boundary follows a street, the center line of
the street is the boundary of the district.
   (B)   Where a zoning district boundary approximately follows a lot line,
that line is the boundary of the district.
   (C)   Where a zoning district boundary follows a stream or the like, that
stream is the boundary of the district.
   (D)   Where a zoning district boundary does not clearly follow any feature
mentioned above, the line's most accurate location shall be determined by
measurement according to the map scale.
   (E)   Unassigned or new areas coming under the city zoning authority shall
be temporarily zoned R-1. The Planning Commission shall study the annexed or
unassigned area and make recommendations within 60 days to the City Council for
a permanent classification. Notice shall be given as required by KRS Chapter
424.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
§ 152.102 SCHEDULE OF DIMENSION AND AREA REQUIREMENTS.
         Minimum Lot              Minimum Yard Dimensions          Maximum
         Size/Maximum Minimum Lot                         Maximum  Percentage
District Density Per  Width       Front Rear Side         Building Lot Coverage
         Acre                                             Height   By Building
         Minimum Lot             Minimum Yard
         Size/                   Dimensions        Maximum      Maximum
District Maximum     Minimum Lot                   Building     Percentage
         Density Per Width       Front Rear Side   Height       Lot Coverage
         Acre                                                   By Building

         15,000 sq.                                2-1/
R-1      ft.         75 ft.      30    30   12     2 stories/30 40%
                                                   feet
         8,000 sq.                                 2-1/
R-2      ft.         70 ft. SF   25    25   10     2 stories/30 40%
                                                   feet
         10 per acre 75 ft. DUP
         7,500 sq.   65 ft. SF   25    25   10     3 stories/40 40%
R-3      ft.                                       feet
         16 per acre 75 ft. DUP
         7,500 sq.   65 ft. SF   25    20   8      3 stories/40 50%
R-4      ft.                                       feet
         20 per acre 75 ft. DUP
P-1      7,500 sq.   70 ft.      30    25   8      3 stories/40 50%
         ft.                                       feet
C-1      7,500 sq.   70 ft.      25    20   N/A(1) 2 stories/25 75%
         ft.                                       feet
C-2      7,500 sq.   50 ft.      25    20   N/A(1) 3 stories/40 50%
         ft.                                       feet
C-3      7,500 sq.   50 ft.      N/A   N/A  N/A(1) 50 feet      90%
         ft.
C-4      7,500 sq.   70 ft.      25    25   N/A(1) 3 stories/40 70%
         ft.                                       feet
I-1      10,000 sq.  75 ft.      30    30   N/A(1) 50 feet      50%
         ft.
I-2      10,000 sq.  75 ft.      30    30   N/A(1) 50 feet      50%
         ft.
I-3      15,000 sq.  100 ft.     30    30   N/A(1) 50 feet      50%
         ft.
FPC      1 acre      100 ft.     N/A   N/A  N/A(1) 50 feet      40%
A        2 acres     150 ft.     50    50   25     50 feet      20%
MH       7,500 sq.   70 ft.      30    25   10     20 feet      40%
         ft.
(1) - Where adjoining a residential district, use must observe side yard
requirements of adjoining district.
SF - Single-family residence
DUP - Duplex residential unit
§ 152.103 R-l SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in R-1 Single-family Residential
Districts as indicated:
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)    Single-family dwellings.
              (2)    Customary general horticultural uses.
      (B)   Accessory uses.
              (1)    Garages and other buildings not used as a dwelling and
incidental and accessory to the principal use.
              (2)    Swimming pools and private recreational facilities
incidental to the principal use.
       (C)   Conditional uses.
              (1)    Home occupations for occupants only.
              (2)    One or two sleeping rooms in a structure.
              (3)    Churches, libraries, schools, public recreational
facilities, governmental uses, public utilities (KRS 100.324), funeral homes,
cemeteries, medical facilities, institutional uses, and private non-retail
clubs. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may attach special conditions to its
approval which it feels necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter and
to preserve and protect the character of the district in which the proposed use
would locate.
              (4)    In the event that a nonconforming mobile home, not located
in a Mobile Home Zone (one that was grandfathered in) pursuant to this chapter,
is destroyed beyond repair, a replacement mobile home may be moved into its
place for continued use. The replacement mobile home may be the same size as
the one being replaced or a larger mobile home may be used if the minimum yard
dimensions are met according to §
152.102 in all R districts.
              (5)    Nonconforming mobile homes that existed before enactment
of this chapter may be upgraded or replaced with a mobile home of the same size
or a larger mobile home may be used if the minimum yard dimensions are met
according to §
152.102 in all R districts.
              (6)    Conforming mobile homes now in existance may be upgraded
or replaced.
       (D)   Dimension and area requirements. Requirements are established in
the schedule of dimensions and area regulations in §
152.102. The applicable regulations shall be observed in each district as
minimum requirements.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86; Am. Ord. 3-1988, passed 2-18-88; Am. Orrd. 8-
1988, passed 7-19-88; Am. Ord. 7-1993, passed 7-12-93)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.104 R-2 DUPLEX AND SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
       The following regulations shall apply in R-2 Duplex and Single-family
Residential Districts:
       (A)   Permitted uses.
              (1)    Single-family residential dwellings.
              (2)    Two-family dwellings.
              (3)    Customary general horticultural uses.
       (B)   Accessory uses.
              (1)    Same as for R-l districts.
              (2)    Home occupations.
       (C)   Conditional uses.
              (1)    Same as for R-l districts.
              (2)    Home occupations that exceed the definition of "home
occupation" in §
152.004.
       (D)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.105 R-3 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
       The following regulations shall apply in the R-3 Medium Density
Residential District:
       (A)   Permitted uses.
              (1)    Single-family dwellings.
              (2)    Two-family dwellings.
              (3)    Townhouses or attached single-family dwellings.
              (4)    Multi-family dwellings.
       (B)   Accessory uses. Same as for R-2 districts.
       (C)   Conditional uses. Same as for R-2 districts.
       (D)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.106 R-4 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
       The following regulations shall apply in the R-4 High Density
Residential District:
       (A)   Permitted uses.
              (1)    Two-family dwellings.
              (2)    Townhouses or attached single-family dwellings.
              (3)    Multi-family dwellings.
       (B)   Accessory uses. Same as for R-3 districts.
       (C)   Conditional uses. Same as for R-3 districts.
       (D)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.107 P-l PROFESSIONAL OFFICE DISTRICTS.
       The following regulations shall apply in the P-1 Professional Office
District:
       (A)   Permitted uses.
             (1)    Administrative offices.
              (2)    Medical, dental, and similar offices and clinics.
              (3)    Hospitals.
              (4)    General business and professional offices where no retail
business activity is conducted.
              (5)    Real estate, insurance, and banking facilities.
              (6)    Governmental buildings and uses.
              (7)    Radio stations.
              (8)    Schools, churches, places of assembly, recreational
centers, and libraries.
              (9)    Funeral homes.
              (10)    Residential uses as permitted in an R-2 district.
       (B)   Conditional uses.
              (1)    Accessory retail activities that do not attract customers
other than those on the premises.
              (2)    Day care centers, nursery schools, and the like.
              (3)    Veterinarian centers when located not closer than 1,000
feet from a residential structure.
              (4)    Townhouse type residential development as long as the
density does not exceed that permitted in the R-2 district classification.
       (C)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.108 C-l NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   This district is for retail trade and personal service enterprises that will
meet the regular needs of the surrounding neighborhood. The following
regulations shall apply in the C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District:
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Retail sales for neighborhood consumption.
      (2)   Consumer services for neighborhood consumption.
      (3)   Professional, business, and governmental offices.
      (4)   Public facilities such as libraries, churches, schools,
recreational facilities, and other similar uses.
      (5)   Financial establishments.
      (6)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted
uses.
      (7)   Residential uses as permitted in the R-2 district.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Other uses similar to permitted uses but having a larger market
area.
      (2)   When a C-1 district adjoins and is accessible from state and
federal highways, those uses that have a greater market area, such as motels,
restaurants, and the like, may be permitted.
   (C)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.109 C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in the C-2 Highway Commercial
District:
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Those uses permitted in the C-1 and P-1 districts including motels,
service stations, auto sales, produce markets, and park-and-ride lots.
      (2)   Veterinarian hospitals, kennels, and the like.
      (3)   Commercial nurseries and greenhouses, including sales offices and
accessory uses.
      (4)   Drive-in and fast food eating establishments.
      (5)   Outdoor and indoor display of farm implements, mobile homes,
recreational vehicles, contracting equipment, and similar uses.
      (6)   Car washes.
      (7)   Other uses determined by the Board of Zoning Adjustment to be of
the same general character.
   (B)   Conditional uses. Residential uses as permitted in the R-3 District.
   (C)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.110 C-3 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in the C-3 Central Business District:
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any use permitted in the C-1 district except service stations and
businesses primarily for wholesale or storage activity, warehousing or
manufacturing nature and any similar use which in the opinion of the Board of
Zoning Adjustment would be detrimental to the orderly development of and the
preservation of the C-3 Central Business District.
      (2)   Residential uses as permitted in the R-4 district.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Service stations and automobile dealerships.
   (C)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.111 I-l LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in the I-1 Light Industrial District:
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Wholesale business activity.
      (2)   Warehouses.
      (3)   Laboratories.
      (4)   Assembly plants.
      (5)   Other similar establishments making, preparing, packing, and
storing of items, provided that these enterprises are consistent with the
definition of light industry in §
152.004.
   (B)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.112 I-2 MEDIUM INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in the I-2 Medium Industrial District:
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Assembly plants of a more intensive nature than in I-l districts.
      (2)   Machine shops.
      (3)   Manufacturing plants.
      (4)   Food processing plants.
      (5)   Other similar establishments making, preparing, packing, and
storing of items, provided that such enterprises are consistent with the
definition of medium industry in §
152.004.
   (B)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.113 I-3 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   The following regulations shall apply in the I-3 Heavy Industrial District:
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All uses permitted in the I-1 and I-2 districts.
      (2)   All uses meeting the definition of heavy industry in §
152.004, including junkyards, provided that all local, state, and federal
regulations are complied with.
   (B)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.114 HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   A historic district is a designated zone that may be superimposed over
any other zoning district where the provisions of the other zoning district are
applicable as well as the provisions contained herein. The historic district is
intended to protect the historic character to the fullest extent of those
buildings and areas so designated.
   (B)   All buildings within a historic district shall not be demolished or
moved without first obtaining a permit from the Board of Zoning Adjustment. In
such instances, upon proper application and notice, the Board of Zoning
Adjustment shall conduct a public hearing to determine if the permit should be
granted. The Board of Zoning Adjustment may seek advice and recommendations
from the Planning Commission, any historical society, architect, engineer,
historian, or other qualified person as well as any governmental agency as
deemed necessary by the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (C)   Proposed construction in historic zones of new buildings, structures,
or major landscape modification shall not begin without prior approval of a
development plan by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may also
call upon expert assistance to aid in reviewing any development plan. The
procedure for historical review before the Planning Commission shall be the
same as for the requesting of variances before the Board of Zoning Adjustment.
   (D)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment and the Planning Commission shall fully
examine the nature of any proposal, the historical significance of any
buildings to be demolished or substantially altered, the historical character
of the area, the future land use of the site, and shall work to achieve
architectural compatibility and to protect the historical character of the
area.
   (E)   This section does not grant local bodies the authority to prevent a
landowner from moving or demolishing a structure otherwise permissible. It is
the intent of this section, and the review process herein established, to
assure that a project is not ill conceived. If it is not, this process will
provide the time and a forum upon which valid alternatives can be aired
publicly.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.115 FP/C FLOODPLAIN CONSERVATION DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Floodplain/Conservation Districts herein established and so
designated on the zoning map are intended to protect significant natural
features, waterways, existing lakes, recreational resources, wildlife habitats,
present and future water supplies, and to minimize erosion of soil and
pollution of streams. The following regulations shall apply in the FP/
C Floodplain/Conservation Districts:
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural activities.
      (2)   Forestry uses.
      (3)   Lakes, ponds, and storm water retention facilities.
      (4)   Buildings and structures with the provision that all construction
shall be designed so as to not alter or obstruct the flow of waters and shall
be adequately anchored to prevent the building from being damaged or destroyed
by the water flow or from high water in times of flooding.
       (C)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.116 A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS.
       The following regulations shall apply to A Agricultural Districts in
order to conserve agricultural lands for continued farm use and to minimize
urban types of development in areas where urban services have not or most
likely will not be extended.
       (A)   Permitted uses.
              (1)    Agricultural uses including farm dwellings and accessory
farm buildings.
              (2)    The growing, harvesting, and storage of crops.
              (3)    The keeping, raising, and feeding of livestock.
       (C)   Conditional uses.
              (1)    Commercial feedlot operations.
              (2)    Governmental uses.
              (3)    Recreational and open space uses.
       (D)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.117 MH MOBILE HOME DISTRICTS.
       The intent of this section is to permit the establishment of mobile home
parks in a residential setting convenient to major traffic arterials. Mobile
homes shall be located in a designated mobile home park or in a mobile home
subdivision. These areas shall be designated as MH districts. The following
regulations shall apply in MH Mobile Home Districts:
       (A)   Permitted uses.
              (1)    Mobile home parks which shall consist of more than one
mobile home.
              (2)    Mobile home subdivisions which shall consist of more than
one mobile home.
       (B)   Accessory uses.
              (1)    Those accessory uses customarily incidental to any
permitted principal use.
              (2)    Recreational areas for the residents of the mobile home
park or subdivision.
       (C)   Conditional uses.
              (1)    Incidental retail uses for the residents of the district.
              (2)    Laundries and nurseries for the residents of the district.
       (D)   Dimension and area requirements. See schedule in §
152.102.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86)
       (E)   (1)   The following state licensed mobile home parks will be zoned
MH Zones, and allowed to continue operating as grandfathered in by the state:
Trailer Park Spaces Location
Trailer Park          Spaces Location
Denton Trailer Park   8      Located on Water Street
Hornback Trailer Park 4      Located on Denton Drive
Metz Trailer Park     2      Located on Suddith Street
Orme Trailer Park     4      Located on Rowland Avenue
Tara II Trailer Park  3      Located on Sharon Rose Drive
Taylor Trailer Park   8      Located off Slate Avenue (behind the Church of
                             God)
Williams Trailer Park 5      Located on West Highway 36
 
               (2) The following guidelines will pertain to the above named
trailer parks: If a mobile home moves from a licensed mobile home park and is
replaced by another mobile home, the replacement mobile home shall not exceed
the dimensions of mobile home being replaced unless there is adequate space for
a larger mobile home as set forth in KRS 219.310 to 219.410 and the regulations
adopted by the Secretary of the Cabinet for Human Resources at the time of
enactment of this section.
(Ord. 4-1993, passed 5-10-93)
Penalty, see § 152.999
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
       (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements, including violations of conditions established in
connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $100
and not exceeding $500 or imprisoned for not more than two days, or both, and
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses that may be involved in the case.
Each day a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
       (B)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part
thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who
commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains a violation may each be
found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties provided herein.
       (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 14-1986, passed 12-1-86; Am. Ord. 13-1988, passed 10-3-88)
CHAPTER 153: VACANT PROPERTY REVIEW COMMISSION
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Vacant Property Review Commission
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS. 
   "BLIGHTED" or "DETERIORATED" PROPERTY” Any vacant structure or vacant or
unimproved lot or parcel of ground in a predominately built up neighborhood:
      (1)   Which because of physical condition or use is regarded as a public
nuisance at public law or has been declared a public nuisance in accordance
with the city, with the housing, building, plumbing, fire, or related codes;
      (2)   Which because of physical condition, use or occupancy is considered
an attractive nuisance to children, including but not limited to, abandoned
wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences or structures;
      (3)   Which because it is dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin
infested, or lacking in the facilities and equipment required by the housing
code of the city, has been designated by the department responsible for the
enforcement of the code is unfit for human habitation;
      (4)   Which is a fire hazard, or is otherwise dangerous to the safety of
persons or property;
      (5)   From which the utilities, plumbing, heating, sewerage, or other
facilities have been disconnected, destroyed, removed, or rendered ineffective
so that the property is unfit for its intended use;
      (6)   Which by reason of neglect or lack of maintenance has become a
place for accumulation of trash and debris, or a haven for rodents or other
vermin;
      (7)   Which has been tax delinquent for a period of at least three years;
or
      (8)   Which has not been rehabilitated within the time constraints placed
upon the owner by the appropriate code enforcement agency.
   "REDEVELOPMENT." The planning or replanning, design or redesign,
acquisition, clearance, development, and disposal or any combination of these,
of a property in the preparation of such property for residential and related
uses, as may be appropriate or necessary.
   "RESIDENTIAL AND RELATED USE." Residential property for sale or rental or
related uses; including but not limited to park and recreation areas,
neighborhood community service and neighborhood parking lots.
(Ord. 1-2005, passed 3-14-05)
§ 153.02 VACANT PROPERTY REVIEW COMMISSION. 
   (A)   There is hereby created the Vacant Property Review Commission which
shall consist of three members to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval
of the City Council. The members shall serve three year terms and the terms
shall be staggered in order that no more than one term shall expire each year.
The initial appointments shall be for one year, two years, and three years.
Thereafter each member shall serve for three years. Should any member resign or
otherwise be removed from the Commission, a replacement member shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council for the remainder
of the existing term. Membership of the Commission shall not consist of any
officer or employee of the city whose duties include enforcement of housing,
building, plumbing, fire, or related codes. All members must reside within the
corporate limits of the city. It shall be the collective duty of the Commission
to investigate properties and if so determined make a written report of blight
and/or deterioration to the Owingsville City Council. The Commission may review
said properties upon its own initiative or upon referral. The Commission's
further duties shall be any other duty or responsibility as contemplated by KRS
99.700 through KRS 99.730.
   (B)   The Vacant Property Review Commission may only certify to the City
Council property as blighted and/or deteriorated after the Commission has
determined:
      (1)   That the owner of the property or designated agent has been sent an
order by the appropriate city agency to eliminate the conditions which are in
violation of local codes or laws;
      (2)   That the property is vacant;
      (3)   That the property is blighted and deteriorated;
      (4)   That the Commission has notified the property owned or designated
agent that the property has been determined to be blighted or deteriorated and
the time period for correction of such condition has expired and the property
owner or agent has failed to comply with the notice; and
      (5)   That the Planning and Zoning Commission has determined that the
reuse of the property for residential and related use is in keeping with the
city comprehensive plan.
   (C)   The Commission shall notify the owner of the property or a designated
agent that a determination of blight or deterioration has been made and that
failure to eliminate the conditions causing the blight shall render the
property subject to condemnation by the city under KRS 99.705 to 99.730. Notice
shall be mailed to the owner or designated agent by certified mail, return
receipt requested. However, if the address of the owner or a designated agent
is unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Commission in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, copies of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the property affected. The written notice sent to the owner or his
agent shall describe the conditions that render the property blighted and
deteriorated, and shall demand abatement of the conditions within 90 days of
the receipt of such notice.
   (D)   An extension of the 90 day time period may be granted by the
Commission if the owner or designated agent demonstrates that such period is
insufficient to correct the conditions cited in the notice.
   (E)   The City Council may institute imminent domain proceedings pursuant to
KRS Chapter 416 against the property which has been certified as blighted or
deteriorated by the Commission if it finds:
      (1)   That such property has deteriorated to such an extent as to
constitute a serious and growing menace to the public health, safety and
welfare;
      (2)   That such property is likely to continue to deteriorate unless
corrected;
      (3)   That the continued deterioration of such property may contribute to
the blighting or deterioration of the area immediately surrounding the
property; and
      (4)   That the owner of such property has failed to correct the
deterioration of the property.
   (F)   The city may acquire by imminent domain pursuant to KRS Chapter 416,
any property determined to be blighted or deteriorated in accordance with this
chapter and KRS 99.705 to 99.730 and shall have the power to hold, clear,
manage or dispose of such property so acquired for residential and related use,
pursuant to the provision of KRS 99.705 to 99.730.
   (G)   This chapter shall be construed in accordance and consistent with KRS
99.700 to KRS 99.730.
(Ord. 1-2005, passed 3-14-05)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BOND ISSUES
      
III.   CONDEMNATIONS
      
IV.   CONTRACTS
      
V.   EASEMENTS
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
      
VII.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VIII.   AD VALOREM TAXATION RATES
      
IX.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
TABLE I. ANNEXATIONS
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO. DATE     DESCRIPTION
        7- -62   Annexation of certain territory beginning at a concrete
                  highway marker at end of curb on old west city limits.
                  Annexation of certain territory beginning at a stake set by
        10-3-77  the parties and corner to same; thence southwardly a straight
                  line a distance of 2.34 chains to a stake corner to same and
                  other property of Espy Barber.
                  Annexation of a certain tract of land beginning at a concrete
                  monument set in the existing western city limits line and
1-1988   1-5-88   being located north 14 degrees 37 minutes and 23 seconds west
                  1420.69 feet from the existing city limit marker on the south
                  side of U.S. 60.
                  Annexation of a certain tract of land beginning at a monument
                  set in the southern boundary of the existing city limits, and
7-1989   5-2-89   in the east right-of-way of KY 36, corner to Richardson, this
                  monument being located south 75 degrees 22 minutes 37 seconds
                  west, 2643.31 feet from the southeast corner of existing city
                  limits.
                  Annexation of a certain tract of land beginning at a stake in
21-1989  12-4-89  the east right-of-way of old KY 36, corner to Lyons located
                  south of the existing city limits.
                  Annexation of a certain tract of land beginning at a monument
22-1989  12-4-89  at the southwest corner of the original city limits located
                  south of existing city limits.
                  Annexation of a certain tract of land beginning at a monument
24-1989  12-4-89  at the existing city limits, corner to Miller located east of
                  existing city limits.
                  Annexation of a certain tract of land beginning at a monument
25-1989  12-4-89  on the existing city limits located east of the existing city
                  limits.
1-2000   5-8-00   Annexation of a certain tract of land containing 152.07
                  acres.
6-2010   10-11-10 Annexation of a certain tract of land containing 57.36 acres.
                  Annexation of land located along the southeast side of County
6-2017   10-9-17  Road 3231 (Kendall Springs Road) containing approximately
                  3.37 acres.
                 
 
TABLE II. BOND ISSUES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO. DATE     DESCRIPTION
         6-27-61  Authorizing the issuance of $280,000 of water and sewer
                  revenue bonds.
         7-21-75  Authorizing the issuance of $498,000 of water and sewer
                  revenue bonds.
         15-1987  Authorizing the issuance of $478,000 of water and sewer
                  revenue bonds.
10-1993  9-27-93  Authorizing the issuance and sale of $711,000 of water and
                  sewer revenue bonds.
15-2003  10-13-03 Authorizing the issuance of water and sewer revenue bonds,
                  Series 2003 in the amount of $553,000.
8-2008   7-28-08  Authorizing the issuance of water and sewer revenue bonds,
                  Series 2008 in the amount of $450,000.
5-2011   6-16-11  Authorizing the issuance of water and sewer revenue bonds,
                  Series 2011 in the amount of $333,000.
 
TABLE III. CONDEMNATIONS
 
ORD. NO. DATE   DESCRIPTION
         8-2-73 Authorzing the condemnation of real property owned by Betty B.
                and Ralph Bailey.
 
TABLE IV. CONTRACTS
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO. DATE     DESCRIPTION
                  Authorizing the execution of a cooperative agreement between
Res.     3-1-67   the Owingsville Housing Authority and the U.S. Department of
                  Housing and Urban Development.
                  Authorizing the execution of an interlocal cooperation
11-1987  6-1-87   agreement to establish the Kentucky Municipal Risk Management
                  Association.
                  Authorizing the execution in connection with its
14-1987  9-9-87   participation in the KMRMA General Insurance Trust a binding
                  trust participation agreement between the city and KMRMA.
                  Approving an interlocal agreement between the city and Bath
7-2005   6-13-05  County, creating a joint city and country recreational,
                  Tourist, and Convention Commission.
                  Authorizing the city to enter into a legally binding
9-2007   10-3-07  agreement between the city and Custom Food Products, LLC for
                  the purposes of implementing CDBG Project Number 06-033.
                  Approving an interlocal agreement between the Bath County
9-2008   10-20-08 Fiscal Court, the city of Owingsville, the City of Salt Lick,
                  and the City of Sharpsburg providing for the sharing of
                  occupational fee revenue.
                  Approving an interlocal agreement between the Bath County
7-2010   10-11-10 Fiscal Court and the city creating a joint city and county
                  industrial development authority.
                  Approving an interlocal agreement between Bath County Fiscal
1-2017   2-13-17  Court and the city regarding the joint city and county
                  industrial development authority.
                  Approving an amended interlocal agreement between Bath County
3-2017   3-13-17  Fiscal Court and the city regarding the joint city and county
                  recreational, tourist and convention commission.
                  Approving an amendment to interlocal agreement between Bath
6-2019   9-9-19   County Fiscal Court, City of Owingsville and City of
                  Sharpsburg for sharing of occupational fee revenue.
                  Approving a revised amendment to interlocal agreement between
11-2019  12-9-19  Bath County Fiscal Court, City of Owingsville and City of
                  Sharpsburg for sharing of occupational fee revenue.
                 
 
TABLE V. EASEMENTS
 
ORD. NO. DATE   DESCRIPTION
         4-7-75 Granting utility easement on streets and public rights-of-way
                within the city.
620.l    5-5-86 Granting utility easement on streets and public rights-of-way
                within the city.
 
TABLE VI. FRANCHISES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO. DATE     DESCRIPTION
111      4-1-52   Creating a telephone franchise.
        11-6-67  Creating a CATV franchise.
        - -67    Creating a natural gas distribution franchise.
10-1989  6-7-89   Transferring a franchise to operate a community antenna
                  television system.
9-1990   9-10-90  Accepting the bid of GTE South Incorporated for a telephone
                  and communications franchise.
                  Accepting the bid of Delta Natural Gas Company, Inc. for a
13-1990  12-10-90 franchise for the use and occupation of certain parts of the
                  streets, alleys, and public grounds in the city for the
                  transmission and distribution of natural gas within the city.
7-2001   8-20-01  Establishing procedures and standards for a cable television
                  franchise.
10-2002  11-12-02 Creating a non-exclusive franchise for a cable television
                  system not to exceed ten years.
2-2003   7-14-03  Creating a non-exclusive franchise for a cable television
                  system not to exceed ten years.
8-2005   6-22-05  Creating a non-exclusive franchise for a cable television
                  system not to exceed ten years.
                  Accepting a bid of Delta Natural Gas Company, Inc. for a
3-2006   8-14-06  franchise for the use and occupation of certain parts of the
                  streets, alleys and public grounds in the city for the
                  transmission and distribution of natural gas.
                  Authorizing and directing the City Clerk to advertise and
                  receive bids for a franchise defined herein for the use and
2006-1   4-10-06  occupation of certain parts of the streets, alleys, an public
                  grounds in the city for the transmission and distribution of
                  natural gas energy within the city.
                  Establishing a five-year non- executive franchise for cable
5-2015   - -      services for the operation and maintenance of a cable
                  communications system in the city.
6-2015   6-24-15  Constructing a telephone and communications franchise.
8-2015   8-10-15  Constructing a telephone and communications franchise
11-2015  10-16-15 Accepting the bid of Windstream Kentucky East, L.L.C. for a
                  telephone and communications franchise.
1-2016   3-18-16  Creating a franchise for the erection of electric facilities
                  and appurtenant facilities.
2-2016   3-18-16  Creating a franchise for the operation and maintenance of a
                  natural, manufactured, and/or mixed, gas distribution system.
3-2020   10-12-20 Creating a non-exclusive franchise for a cable system for not
                  to exceed ten years.
                 
 
TABLE VII: ZONING MAP CHANGES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.  DATE     DESCRIPTION
4-1989    3-15-89  Rezoning property owned by Miller and Jamison property
                   located on Coyle Street from R2 to R4.
7-1990    8-7-90   Rezoning property owned by Walter Bailey located on Kendall
                   Springs Road from C4 to R4.
2-1996    3-18-96  Rezoning property owned by Coleman Blevins located on Old
                   Kentucky 36 from A to C2.
11-1996   11-11-96 Rezoning property owned by Betty A. Rawlings located at 87
                   Coyle Street from R-2 to C- 3.
8-1998    9-14-98  Rezoning property owned by Rick Williams located at Kentucky
                   36 and Interstate 64 from A to R-1.
                   Rezoning property owned by Donnie Roberts located at the
11-1998   10-19-98 corner of Suddith Street and East High Street from R-2 to P-
                   1.
4-2000    7-10-00  Rezoning property owned by Jerry Maze located at Interstate
                   64 and Key 36 from R-1 to MH and C-4.
4-2012    4-16-12  Rezoning property owned by Jerry Maze located at the corner
                   of KY 36 West and Creekside Drive from MH to C-4.
6-2012  8-13-12  Rezoning property located at 29 Barbara Lynn Drive from R-
                   2 to P-2.
4-2013  9-9-13   Rezoning property owned by Greg McClain and located at 129
                   Thompson Drive from R-2 to MH.
7-2019    10-25-19 Rezoning property located at 683E. Highway 60 from R-4 to C-
                   2.
2-2020    9-14-20  Rezoning the portion of the Jerry and Brenda Maze Trust
                   property located alongside East Highway 36, from MH to C-4.
6-2021    12-13-21 Rezoning property owned by Rhonda Whitehead and located on
                   the west side of Oberline Avenue from A to R-3.
                   Rezoning two tracts of property owned by Northwest
7-2021    12-13-21 International, INC and located at 52 Suddith Avenue, Tract 1
                   from A to C-4, Tract 2 from R-4 to C-4.
2-2022    3-14-22  Rezoning property owned by Phillip and Amanda Sorrell and
                   located on Smoot Drive from A to R-2.
                  
 
TABLE VIII: AD VALOREM TAXATION RATES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO.  DATE DESCRIPTION
          10-
11-1993   22-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1994:
          93
             (1)    Motor Vehicles and Watercraft at .31 per $100 assessed valuation.
          11-
13-1993   24-  Ad valorem tax rates for Calendar year 1993:
          93
             (1)   All real property at 23.4 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 29.3 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (3)   All bank shares applicable to those banks located and doing business in the
               city at 23.9 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-
5-1994    10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1994:
          94
             (1)    Motor Vehicles and Watercraft at .31 per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-
7-1994    10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1994:
          94
             (1)   All real property at 24.4 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 31.6 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (3)   All bank shares applicable to those banks located and doing business in the
               city at 25.1 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-
5-1995    16-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1995:
          95
             (1)   All real property at 24.4 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 24.8 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (3)   All bank shares applicable to those banks located and doing business in the
               city at 23.8 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-
7-1995    16-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1995:
          95
             (1)   Motor Vehicles and Watercraft at .31 per $100 assessed valuation.
          8-
9-1996    14-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1996:
          96
             (1)   Motor Vehicles and Watercraft at .31 per $100 assessed valuation.
          11-
12-1996   11-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1996:
          96
             (1)   All real property at 23.8 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 23.8 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
2-1997    9-8- Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1997:
          97
             (1)   Motor Vehicles and Watercraft at .31 per $100 assessed valuation.
          11-
4-1997    10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1997:
          97
             (1)   All real property at 23.3 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 23.3 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          9-
7-1998    14-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1998:
          98
             (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at .31 per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-
10-1998   19-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1998:
          98
             (1)   All real property at 23.3 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 23.3 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          9-
7-1999    13-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1999:
          99
             (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at .36 per $100 assessed valuation.
          9-
8-1999    27-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 1999:
          99
             (1)   All real property at 23.7 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 23.7 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          9-
6-2000    11-  Ad valorem tax rate for calendar year 2000.
          00
             (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at .36 per $100 assessed valuation.
          11-
7-2000    13-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2000:
          00
             (1)   All real property at 22.8 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 22.8 cents per $100.00 assessed
               valuation.
          9-
9-2001    10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2002:
          01
             (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at .36 per $100 assessed valuation.
          11-
11-2001   12-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2001:
          01
             (1)   All real property at 22.5 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 22.5 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
6-2002    9-9- Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2003:
          02
             (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at .36 per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-
9-2002    14-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2002:
          02
             (1)   All real property at 22.8 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 22.8 cents per $100.00 assessed
               valuation.
14-2003   9-8- Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2004:
          03
             (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at .36 per $100 assessed valuation.
17-2003   12-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2003:
          1-03
             (1)   All real property at 24.2 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 24.2 cents per $100.00 assessed
               valuation.
          9-
4-2004    23-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2005:
          04
             (1)Motor vehicles and watercraft at .36 per $100 assessed valuation.
5-2004    11-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2004:
          8-04
             (1)   All real property at 21.5 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 21.5 cents per $100.00 assessed
               valuation.
9-2005    10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2006:
          1-05
             (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at .36 per $100 assessed valuation.
12-2005   12-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2005:
          5-05
             (1)   All real property at 22.0 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 22.0 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
4-2006    10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2007:
          2-06
             (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at .36 per $100 assessed valuation.
          11-
6-2006    21-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2006:
          06
             (1)   All real property at 22.0 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
             (2)   All tangible personal property at 22.0 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          9-
8-2007    26-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2008:
          07
             (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at .36 per $100 assessed valuation.
          11-
10-2007   19-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2007:
          07
                (1)   All real property at 22.9 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                (2)   All tangible personal property at 22.9 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
          11-
10-2008   11-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2008:
          08
                (1)   All real property at 23.2 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                (2)   All tangible personal property at 23.2 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
9-2009    11-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2009:
          9-09
                (1)   All real property at 23.2 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                (2)   All tangible personal property at 23.2 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
          10-
9-2010    11-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2011:
          10
                (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-
10-2010   11-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2010:
          10
                (1)   All real property at 23.8 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                (2)   All tangible personal property at 23.8 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
          10-
8-2011    10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2011:
          11
                (1)   All real property at 23.8 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                (2)   All tangible personal property at 23.8 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
          10-
9-2011    10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2012:
          11
                (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation.
8-2012  10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2012:
          8-12
                (1)   All real property at 24.1 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                (2)   All tangible personal property at 24.1 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
9-2012  10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2013:
          8-11
                (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-
5-2013  14-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2013:
          13
                (1)   All real property at 24.6 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                (2)   All tangible personal property at 24.6 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
          10-
6-2013  14-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2014:
          13
                (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-
5-2014  17-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2014:
          14
                (1)   All real property at 24.3 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                (2)   All tangible personal property at 24.3 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
          10-
6-2014  17-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2015:
          14
                (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-
9-2015    12-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2016:
          15
                (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-
10-2015   16-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2015:
          15
                (1)   All real property at 24.0 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                (2)   All tangible personal property at 24.0 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
          10-
7-2016    25-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2016:
          16
                (1)   All real property at 24.7 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
                (2)   All tangible personal property at 24.7 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
          10-
8-2016    25-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2017:
          16
                (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2017:
7-2017  20-      (1) All real property at 25.7 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          17      (2) All tangible personal property at 25.7 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2018:
8-2017    20-     (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation
          17
          11-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2018:
3-2018    12-     (1)   All real property at 25.7 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          18      (2)   All tangible personal property at 25.7 cents per $100 assessed valuation
          11-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2019:
4-2018    12-     (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation.
          18
          1-
5-2018    14-  Amending Ord. 3-2018 setting payment dates.
          19
          10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2019:
8-2019    25-     (1)   All real property at 26.7 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          19      (2)   All tangible personal property at 26.7 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
          10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2020:
9-2019    25-     (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation.
          19
          1-
10-2019   13-  Amending Ord. 8-2019 setting payment dates.
          20
          10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2020:
4-2020    12-     (1)   All real property at 26.0 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          20      (2)   All tangible personal property at 26.0 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
          10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2021:
5-2020    12-     (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation.
          20
          11-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2021:
4-2021    14-     (1)   All real property at 24.7 cents per $100 assessed valuation.
          21      (2)   All tangible personal property at 24.7 cents per $100 assessed
               valuation.
          10-  Ad valorem tax rates for calendar year 2022:
5-2021    11-     (1)   Motor vehicles and watercraft at 36.0 per $100 assessed valuation.
          21
              
 
TABLE IX: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
ORD. NO. DATE DESCRIPTION
ORD. NO. DATE     DESCRIPTION
1-1996   3-18-96  Authorizing administration of a Compensation and
                  Classification Plan.
                  Amending Ord. 1-1996 deleting positions of Senior
5-1996   4-23-96  Telecommunications Officer, Grade 19 and Telecommunications
                  Officer, Grade 17.
6-1996   4-23-96  Authorizing participation in the County Retirement System.
7-1996   4-23-96  Amending Ord. 1-1996 to include the position of Code
                  Enforcer, Grade 10.
3-1998   6-23-98  Updating compensation plan regarding salary scale.
2-1999   6-14-99  Amending employment policies and compensation plan regarding
                  sick leave and salary scale.
3-2000   7-10-00  Updating compensation plan regarding salary scale.
3-2001   6-11-01  Updating compensation plan regarding salary scale.
4-2001   6-11-01  Amending policies and procedures regarding expense
                  reimbursement.
6-2001   7-9-01   Amending policies and procedures regarding uniforms.
2-2002   4-26-02  Amending Ord. 3-1993, establishing compensation for the
                  Mayor.
4-2002   7-8-02   Updating the compensation plan regarding salary scale.
8-2002   5-12-03  Updating the compensation plan regarding salary scale.
10-2003  7-14-03  Updating the compensation plan regarding sick leave.
2-2008   3-10-08  Amending the Personnel Plan.
4-2009   5-11-09  Updating the compensation plan regarding salary scale.
6-2009   6-29-09  Adopting a certified drug-free workplace policy to be the
                  city of Personnel Policy.
10-2009  12-14-09 Amending the drug-free workplace policy.
1-2010   4-12-10  Updating the compensation plan regarding salary scale.
2-2011   3-14-11  Updating the pay/classification plan.
1-2014   4-14-14  Updating the pay/classification plan.
2-2014   4-18-14  Establishing compensation for the elected position of Mayor.
3-2014   4-18-14  Establishing compensation for the elected position of City
                  Council Member.
3-2022   3-14-22  Establishing compensation for the elected position of Mayor.
4-2022   3-14-22  Establishing compensation for the elected position of City
                  Council Member.
                 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Kentucky Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
References to Resolutions
REFERENCES TO KENTUCKY REVISED STATUTES
KRS Section Code Section
KRS Section             Code Section
Section 43, Ky. Const.  32.48
Section 157, Ky. Const. 33.04
                        31.01(A),
                        31.36(E),
Section 228, Ky. Const. 31.37(D),
                        31.45(E),
                        35.36(D), 152.10(E)
Section 246, Ky. Const. 31.02(A)
6.050                   32.48
Ch. 13A                 93.02
Ch. 13B                 93.05,
                        118.068
16.220                  72.21
Ch. 18A                 113.03
18A.225(2)              113.03
18A.228                 113.03
39.409                  31.21
41.240(4)               33.06
42.450 - 42.495         33.05
Ch. 45A                 34A.05,
                        34.12
Ch. 56                  34A.05,
                        34.12
Ch. 61                  32.21
61.805 - 61.850         34A.10
61.805(1)               34A.01
61.805(2)               34.01,
                        34A.01
61.805(3)               34A.01
61.805(4)               34A.01
61.805(5)               34A.01
61.810                  34A.05,
                        40.46
61.815                  34A.06
61.820                  34A.07
61.823                  34A.08
61.826                  34A.09
61.840                  34A.09
61.870                  34.01,
                        34.05
61.870 - 61.882         31.36
61.870 - 61.884         34.13,
                        40.50
61.872 - 61.884         40.15
61.872(1)               34.05,
                        34.05(B)
61.872(2)               34.05,
                        34.05(A)
61.872(3)               34.05,
                        34.06
61.872(4)               34.06,
                        34.07
61.872(5)               34.07,
                        34.08
61.872(6)               34.08
61.874(1)               34.05(C)
61.874(2)(b)            34.05
61.874(4)               34.05
61.876                  34.05
61.878                  34.12
61.878(1)               34.12
61.878(1)(i)            34A.05
61.880                  34.09
61.880(1)               34.12
61.882                  34.09
61.884                  34.11
62.020                  31.01(B)
62.060                  31.01(C)
62.060                  31.01(B)
65.003                  40.01
65.120                  72.01
65.210 - 65.300         35.13
65.870                  Ch. 136
80.020                  35.10,
                        35.12(D)
80.020 - 80.257         35.12(C)
80.030                  35.11(A)
80.040                  35.11(B)
80.050                  35.12(A), (B), (D)
80.060                  35.13
80.080                  35.14
80.090                  35.15
82.062                  40.01
82.400                  91.11
82.605 - 82.640         72.21
Ch. 83A                 31.20(A),
                        31.21
83A.010(5)              10.02
83A.010(6)              10.02
83A.010(7)              10.02
83A.010(9)              10.02
83A.010(10)             10.02
83A.010(11)             10.02
83A.030(1)              30.02(B)
83A.040(3),(4)          32.01
83A.040(5)              32.01
83A.040(6)              31.03,
                        32.02
83A.040(7)              31.21 (C)(3),
                        32.02
83A.040(8)              32.02
83A.060(1)              32.35
83A.060(2)              32.36
83A.060(3)              32.37
83A.060(4),(7)          32.38
83A.060(5)              32.40
83A.060(6)              32.22
83A.060(8)              32.41,
                        32.42
83A.060(9)              32.43
83A.060(10)             32.44
83A.060(11)             32.45
83A.060(12),(13)        32.46
83A.060(14)             32.47
83A.060(15)             32.48
83A.065                 10.02
83A.070                 31.03
83A.075                 31.03
83A.080                 40.02
83A.080(1)              31.35
83A.080(2)              31.04,
                        31.35
83A.080(3)              31.20
83A.080(4)              31.20
83A.085(3)(d)           31.36
83A.130(1)              30.01
83A.130(2)              30.02(A),
                        31.21
83A.130(3)              31.21(D)
83A.130(4)              31.21(D)
83A.130(5)              32.20
83A.130(6)              32.39
83A.130(7)              31.21(D)
83A.130(8)              31.21(D)
83A.130(9)              31.21(D)
83A.130(10)             31.21(D)
83A.130(11)             32.03(A),
                        32.21
83A.130(12)             32.03(B), (C)
83A.130(13)             32.03(D)
83A.165                 31.20
83A.175                 32.02
Ch. 91A                 35.71
91A.010                 33.01
91A.010(6)              33.01
91A.010(7)              33.01,
                        10.02
91A.020                 33.02
91A.030                 33.03,
                        33.04
91A.040                 33.05
91A.041                 33.04(J)
91A.050                 33.05
91A.060                 33.06
91A.200                 33.11(A)
91A.210                 33.10
91A.220                 33.11
91A.230                 33.12
91A.240                 33.13
91A.250                 33.14
91A.260                 33.15
91A.270                 33.16
91A.280                 33.17
91A.290                 33.18
91A.350                 35.70,
                        35.75
91A.360                 35.70,
                        35.75
92.310                  110.04
99.700 - 99.730         153.02
99.705 - 99.730         153.02
Ch. 100                 151.17
100.147                 152.10
100.151                 152.10
100.153                 151.14
100.157(1)              151.10
100.161                 151.11
100.163                 151.12
100.167                 151.13
100.173                 151.16
100.177                 151.15
100.181                 151.17
100.201                 152.090
100.203                 152.002,
                        152.090
100.217                 152.016
100.237                 152.017(B)(1)
100.237(1)              152.017(B)(4)(a)
100.237(2)              152.017(B)(4)(b)
100.237(3)              152.017(B)(4)(c)
100.237(4)              152.017(B)(4)(d)
100.237(5)              152.017(B)(4)(e)
100.237(6)              152.017(B)(4)(f)
100.261                 152.017(A)(1)
100.267                 152.030(B)
100.281                 152.090
100.324                 152.103(C)
100.329                 152.017(B)(4)(e)
100.347                 152.018(A)
Ch. 116 - 121           31.20(A)
Ch. 118                 31.20(A)
118.365                 31.20
131.101(6)              113.04
132.285                 38.01
134.420                 38.03,
                        115.03
134.800                 38.04(A)
134.810                 38.04(B)
Ch. 136                 115.01
174.100                 91.15
174.100(1)              91.16
174.100(2),(3)          91.17
174.100(4)              91.18
174.100(5)              91.19
174.100(6),(7)          91.20
177.905 - 177.990       153.049
186.020                 72.21
186A.145                72.21
186A.190                72.21
189.010(19)             70.01
189.020                 71.27
189.330(8)              71.02
189.338                 70.15
189.378                 71.30,
                        71.99(C)
189.378(1)              70.01
189.450(4) - (6)        72.03
189.580                 71.15
189.700                 71.40
189.725                 72.08
189.910                 71.30
189.920                 71.30
189.930                 71.26
189.950(4)              36.44
189.993(8)              71.99(B)
Ch. 198B                150.03
198B.060(8)             150.06
198B.070                150.03
198B.990(1)             150.99(A)
218A.050                118.061,
                        118.062
218A.060                118.061,
                        118.062
218A.070                118.061,
                        118.062
218A.080                118.061,
                        118.062
218A.090                118.061,
                        118.062
218A.100                118.061,
                        118.062
218A.110                118.061,
                        118.062
218A.120                118.061,
                        118.062
218A.130                118.061,
                        118.062
222.202(1)              118.008
222.202(1)              118.008
226.010                 112.01
226.020                 112.02
226.030                 112.07
226.040                 112.03(A)
226.050                 112.04
226.060                 112.08
226.070                 112.03(B)
226.080                 112.05
226.090                 112.06
226.100                 112.08
226.990(1)              112.99
227.700                 93.01
227.700 - 227.750       93.01
227.702                 93.01,
                        93.02
227.704                 93.01
227.706                 93.01
227.708                 93.01
227.710                 93.02
227.715                 93.01,
                        93.02
227.720                 93.03
227.730                 93.04
227.740                 93.04
227.750                 93.05
227.990(1)              150.99(B)
227.990(4)              93.99(A)
                        118.001 -
                        118.003,
Chs. 241 - 244          118.045,
                        118.067,
                        118.087
241.100                 118.044
241.160 (2)             118.040
241.200                 118.068,
                        118.070
Ch. 243                 118.020,
                        118.088
243.020 - 243.670       118.061,
                        118.062
243.030                 118.060
243.040                 118.060
                        118.020,
243.070                 118.024,
                        118.025
243.075(1)              118.024,
                        118.025
243.120                 118.085
243.450                 118.070
243.480                 118.999
243.490                 118.070
243.500                 118.067,
                        118.070
243.550                 118.068
243.850                 118.071
244.050                 118.088
244.085                 118.008,
                        118.087
244.087                 118.087
244.120                 118.067
244.130                 118.100
257.100                 90.06
257.100(4)              90.01
281.605(12)             72.21
281.920 - 281.936       72.21
281.926                 72.21
281.928                 72.21
281.932                 72.21
318.990                 150.99(C)
359.230                 72.21
376.275                 72.21
Ch. 416                 153.02
                        32.43(A),
                        33.05,
Ch. 424                 33.15, 153.005,
                        152.017(C)(2)(b),
                        152.101
424.120                 33.05
424.130(1)(b)           118.060
424.170                 118.060
424.190(2)              33.05
424.220                 33.05
424.240                 33.04(J)
436A.320                114.99
436.600                 90.04,
                        90.99(C)
446.010(1)              10.02
446.010(2)              10.02
446.010(9)              10.02
446.010(10)             10.02
446.010(12)             10.02
446.010(13)             10.02
446.010(14)             10.02
446.010(15)             10.02
446.010(17)             10.02
446.010(18)             10.02
446.010(23)             10.02
446.010(25)             10.02
446.010(26)             10.02
446.010(27)             10.02
446.010(28)             10.02
446.010(30)             10.02
446.010(31)             10.02
446.010(33)             10.02
446.010(37)             10.02
446.010(39)             10.02
446.010(43)             10.02
446.010(46)             10.02
446.010(47)             10.02
446.010(49)             10.02
446.010(55)             10.02
446.020(1)              10.03(A)
446.020(2)              10.03(B)
446.030                 10.04
446.050                 10.05
446.060                 10.06
446.080(1)              10.03(C)
446.080(3)              10.03(D)
446.080(4)              10.03(E)
446.090                 10.07
446.100                 10.08
446.110                 10.09
446.140                 10.01
506.010                 Ch. 138
506.030                 Ch. 138
506.040                 Ch. 138
506.080                 Ch. 138
506.120                 Ch. 138
507.020                 Ch. 130
507.030                 Ch. 130
507.040                 Ch. 130
507.050                 Ch. 130
508.010                 Ch. 130
508.020                 Ch. 130
508.025                 Ch. 130
508.030                 Ch. 130
508.040                 Ch. 130
508.050                 Ch. 130
508.060                 Ch. 130
508.070                 Ch. 130
508.080                 Ch. 130
508.100                 Ch. 130
508.110                 Ch. 130
508.120                 Ch. 130
509.020                 Ch. 130
509.030                 Ch. 130
509.040                 Ch. 130
509.070                 Ch. 130
509.080                 Ch. 130
510.040                 Ch. 137
510.050                 Ch. 137
510.060                 Ch. 137
510.070                 Ch. 137
510.080                 Ch. 137
510.090                 Ch. 137
510.100                 Ch. 137
510.110                 Ch. 137
510.120                 Ch. 137
510.130                 Ch. 137
510.140                 Ch. 137
510.150                 Ch. 137
511.020                 Ch. 132
511.030                 Ch. 132
511.040                 Ch. 132
511.050                 Ch. 132
511.060                 Ch. 132
511.070                 Ch. 132
511.080                 Ch. 132
512.020                 Ch. 132
512.020 - 512.040       50.004
512.030                 Ch. 132
512.040                 Ch. 132
512.050                 Ch. 132
512.060                 Ch. 132
512.070                 Ch. 132
512.080                 Ch. 132
513.020                 Ch. 132
513.030                 Ch. 132
513.040                 Ch. 132
513.060                 Ch. 132
514.030                 Ch. 132
514.040                 Ch. 132
514.050                 Ch. 132
514.060                 Ch. 132
514.065                 Ch. 132
514.070                 Ch. 132
514.080                 Ch. 132
514.090                 Ch. 132
514.100                 Ch. 132
514.110                 Ch. 132
514.120                 Ch. 132
514.140                 Ch. 132
514.150                 Ch. 132
515.020                 Ch. 132
515.030                 Ch. 132
516.020                 Ch. 132
516.030                 Ch. 132
516.040                 Ch. 132
516.050                 Ch. 132
516.060                 Ch. 132
516.070                 Ch. 132
516.090                 Ch. 132
516.110                 Ch. 132
516.120                 Ch. 132
516.130                 Ch. 132
519.020                 Ch. 135
519.030                 Ch. 135
519.040                 Ch. 135
519.050                 Ch. 135
519.060                 Ch. 135
520.020                 Ch. 135
520.030                 Ch. 135
520.040                 Ch. 135
520.050                 Ch. 135
520.060                 Ch. 135
520.070                 Ch. 135
520.080                 Ch. 135
520.090                 Ch. 135
520.100                 Ch. 135
520.120                 Ch. 135
520.130                 Ch. 135
521.020                 Ch. 135
521.030                 Ch. 135
521.040                 Ch. 135
522.020                 Ch. 135
522.030                 Ch. 135
522.040                 Ch. 135
523.020                 Ch. 135
523.030                 Ch. 135
523.040                 Ch. 135
523.100                 Ch. 135
524.020                 Ch. 135
524.030                 Ch. 135
524.040                 Ch. 135
524.045                 Ch. 135
524.050                 Ch. 135
524.060                 Ch. 135
524.070                 Ch. 135
524.080                 Ch. 135
524.090                 Ch. 135
524.100                 Ch. 135
524.110                 Ch. 135
524.120                 Ch. 135
524.130                 Ch. 135
525.020                 Ch. 136
525.030                 Ch. 136
525.040                 Ch. 136
525.050                 Ch. 136
525.060                 Ch. 136
525.070                 Ch. 136
525.080                 Ch. 136
525.090                 Ch. 136
525.100                 Ch. 136
525.110                 Ch. 136
525.120                 Ch. 136
525.125                 90.03,
                        Ch. 136
                        90.03,
525.130                 90.99(B),
                        Ch. 136
525.140                 Ch. 136
525.150                 Ch. 136
525.160                 Ch. 136
526.020                 Ch. 136
526.030                 Ch. 136
526.040                 Ch. 136
526.050                 Ch. 136
526.060                 Ch. 136
528.020                 Ch. 134
528.030                 Ch. 134
528.040                 Ch. 134
528.050                 Ch. 134
528.060                 Ch. 134
528.070                 Ch. 134
528.080                 Ch. 134
528.110                 Ch. 134
528.120                 Ch. 134
529.020                 Ch. 133
529.040                 Ch. 133
529.070                 Ch. 133
529.080                 Ch. 133
530.010                 Ch. 131
530.020                 Ch. 131
530.030                 Ch. 131
530.040                 Ch. 131
530.050                 Ch. 131
530.060                 Ch. 131
530.064                 Ch. 131
530.065                 Ch. 131
530.070                 118.008,
                        Ch. 131
530.080                 Ch. 131
531.020                 Ch. 133
531.030                 Ch. 133
531.040                 Ch. 133
531.050                 Ch. 133
531.060                 Ch. 133
531.310                 Ch. 133
531.320                 Ch. 133
531.340                 Ch. 133
531.350                 Ch. 133
531.360                 Ch. 133
531.370                 Ch. 133
532.060                 139.04
532.090                 139.02
534.030                 139.03
534.040                 139.01
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
        6-27-61     T.S.O. II
        7- -62      T.S.O. I
        - -67       T.S.O. VI
        11-6-67     T.S.O. VI
        8-2-73      T.S.O. III
        1-6-75      32.31(A)
        4-7-75      T.S.O. V
        7-21-75     T.S.O. II
        10-3-77     T.S.O. I
                     33.01,
        5-4-82      33.03,
                     33.04
        11-7-83     151.10(B)
        10-1-84     Ch. 39
        9-17-85     Ch. 38
111      4-1-52      T.S.O. VI
910-1    2-1-54      151.10
                     50.001 -
                     50.003,
                     50.015 -
                     50.021,
                     50.031 -
610.3    3-5-62      50.035,
                     50.060,
                     50.061,
                     50.105 -
                     50.116,
                     50.998,
                     50.999(A)
1979(a)  4-2-79      72.13
540.1    6-4-84      72.14(B),
                     72.99(A)
540.2    6-4-84      Ch. 74, Sch. I
6-1984   12-3-84     151.01
210.1    3-3-86      31.37
210.2    3-3-86      31.36
230.2    3-3-86      37.01
620.1    5-5-86      T.S.O. V
9-1986   10-9-86     Ch. 36
                     50.038,
10-1986  10-9-86     50.039,
                     50.130 -
                     50.141
                     50.001,
                     50.030,
11-1986  10-9-86     50.033,
                     50.036,
                     50.037,
                     50.999(B)
                     50.001 -
                     50.003,
                     50.015 -
                     50.021,
                     50.031 -
12-1986  10-9-86     50.035,
                     50.060,
                     50.061,
                     50.105 -
                     50.116,
                     50.998,
                     50.999(A)
13-1986  12-12-86    151.10
14-1986  12-1-86     Ch. 152
1-1987   2-2-87      37.01
                     72.14,
2-1987   3-2-87      72.98,
                     72.99
3-1987   1-8-87      50.130 -
                     50.141
4-1987   1-22-87     31.20(A)
5-1987   5-4-87      52.01 - 52.25,
                     52.99
6-1987   5-4-87      32.01(C)
                     50.038,
8-1987   6-1-87      50.039,
                     50.085
11-1987  6-1-87      T.S.O. IV
14-1987  9-9-87      T.S.O. IV
15-1987  9-9-87      T.S.O. II
17-1987  10-28-87    50.088
1-1988   1-5-88      T.S.O. I
                     50.004,
                     50.040 -
                     50.047,
                     50.062,
                     50.070 -
2-1988   1-28-88     50.092,
                     50.117,
                     50.118,
                     50.142,
                     50.143,
                     50.115 -
                     50.177
3-1988   2-18-88     152.021,
                     152.103
                     110.01 -
                     110.09,
4-1988   3-7-88      110.99, App.
                     A,
                     B
7-1988   7-19-88     37.01
8-1988   7-19-88     152.004,
                     152.103
9-1988   8-8-88      Adopting Ordinance
13-1988  10-3-88     152.99
14-1988  10-20-88    72.98
15-1988  10-3-88     Ch. 74, Sch. II
2-1989   3-15-89     32.01
3-1989   3-6-89      31.20
4-1989   3-15-89     T.S.O. VII
7-1989   5-2-89      T.S.O. I
10-1989  6-7-89      T.S.O. VI
                     150.01,
11-1989  6-21-89     150.02,
                     150.04,
                     150.05
21-1989  12-4-89     T.S.O. I
22-1989  12-4-89     T.S.O. I
24-1989  12-4-89     T.S.O. I
25-1989  12-4-89     T.S.O. I
1-1990   2-5-90      37.01
4-1990   6-11-90     152.022
7-1990   8-7-90      T.S.O. VII
9-1990   9-10-90     T.S.O. VI
13-1990  12-10-90    T.S.O. VI
14-1990  1-7-91      37.01
                     51.001 -
1-1991   6-17-91     51.135,
                     51.999
5-1991   6-17-91     50.140
6-1991   9-9-91      136.01
2-1992   2-12-92     32.21
3-1992   5-11-92     31.21
                     50.130,
7-1992   9-14-92     50.131,
                     50.133
8-1992   10-12-92    71.05
9-1992   11-10-92    38.02,
                     38.03
10-1992  1-11-93     51.061,
                     51.125
1-1993   5-10-93     91.06
2-1993   4-12-93     32.01
4-1993   5-10-93     152.117(E)
                     152.004,
7-1993   7-12-93     152.021,
                     152.103
                    
 
Ord. No. Date Description Code Section
Ord. No.  Date     Description                                     Code Section
9-1993    10-11-93 Amending Planning and Zoning Code.              152.021
10-1993   9-27-93  Authorizing issuance and sale of water and      T.S.O. II
                   sewer revenue bonds.
11-1993   10-22-93 Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 1994.
12-1993   11-23-93 Adopting S-1 Supplement to Code of Ordinances.  Front
                                                                   38.02,
13-1993   11-24-93 Setting property tax rate for 1993.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
1-1994    Repealed                                                 
2-1994    6-20-94  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 94-95.            NI
3-1994    7-11-94  Regulating the hours of operation of places of  Ch. 114
                   entertainment.
4-1994    Failed                                                   
5-1994    10-10-94 Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 1994.6-1994 Failed
                                                                   38.02,
7-1994    10-10-94 Setting property tax rate for 1994.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
8-1994    11-21-94 Establishing Code of Ethical Conduct.           Ch. 40
1-1995    3-13-95  Amending Code of Ethical Conduct.               40.02,
                                                                   40.20
2-1995    6-12-95  Amending Sewer Use Ordinance.                   51.06(J),
                                                                   51.112 
3-1995    6-5-95   Amending Annual Budget for FY 94-95.            NI
4-1995    6-12-95  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 95-96.            NI
                                                                   38.02,
5-1995    10-16-95 Setting property tax rate for 1995.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
7-1995    10-16-95 Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 1995.
1-1996    3-18-96  Authorizing administration of a Compensation    37.01,
                   and Classification Plan.                        T.S.O. IX 
2-1996    3-18-96  Amending Zoning Code.                           T.S.O. VII
3-1996    Failed                                                   
4-1996    4-23-96  Amending compensation of Councilmembers.        32.01(C)
5-1996    4-23-96  Deleting positions of Senior Telecommunications 37.01,
                   Officer and Telecommunications Officer.         T.S.O. IX
6-1996    4-23-96  Authorizing participation in the County         T.S.O. IX
                   Employees Retirement System.
7-1996    4-23-96  Amending Compensation and Classification Plan.  37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
8-1996    6-10-96  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 96-97.            NI
9-1996    8-14-96  Setting motor vehicle and watercraft tax rate   T.S.O. VIII
                   for 1996.
10-1996   8-14-96  Creating position of Legal Counsel to the City  31.46
                   Council.
11-1996   11-11-96 Amending Zoning Code.                           T.S.O. VII
                                                                   38.02,
12-1996   11-11-96 Setting property tax rate for 1996.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
13-1996   11-11-96 Imposing a Bank Franchise and Local Deposit     Ch. 115
                   Tax.
1-1997    6-30-97  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 97-98.            NI
2-1997    9-8-97   Setting motor vehicle and property tax rate for T.S.O. VIII
                   1997.
3-1997    Failed                                                   
                                                                   38.02,
4-1997    11-10-97 Setting property tax rate for 1997.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
1-1998    4-13-98  Adopting the 1997 S-3 Supplement to the Code of Front
                   Ordinances.
2-1998    Failed                                                   
3-1998    6-23-98  Amending Compensation Plan.                     37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
4-1998    6-23- 98 Adopting Annual Budget for FY 98-99.            NI
5-1998    7-20-98  Regarding transient merchants                   Ch. 116
6-1998    7-20-98  Amending industrial pollutant discharge limits. 51.061(K)
7-1998    9-14- 98 Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 1998.
8-1998    9-14-98  Amending Zoning Code.                           T.S.O. VII
9-1998    Failed                                                   
                                                                   38.02,
10-1998   10-19-98 Setting property tax rate for 1998.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
11-1998   10-19-98 Amending Zoning Code.                           T.S.O. VII
1-1999    2-8-99   Establishing the police department.             35.35-
                                                                   35.38
2-1999    6-14-99  Amending Employment Policies and Compensation   37.01,
                   Plan.                                           T.S.O. IX
3-1999    6-14-99  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 99-00.            NI
4-1999    6-14-99  Amending Annual Budget for FY 98-99.            NI
5-1999    7-30- 99 Prohibiting water usage during shortages.       52.17
6-1999    7-30-99  Assessing surcharges for violation during water 52.17
                   shortages.
7-1999    9-13-99  Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 1999.
                                                                   38.02,
8-1999    9-27-99  Setting property tax rate for 1999.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
1-2000    5-8-00   Annexing certain property.                      T.S.O. I
2-2000    6-26-00  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 00-01.            NI
3-2000    7-10-00  Amending Compensation Plan.                     37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
4-2000    7-10-00  Amending Zoning Code.                           T.S.O. VII
5-2000    Failed                                                   
6-2000    9- 11-00 Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2000.
                                                                   38.02,
7- 2000   11-13-00 Setting property tax rate for 2000.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
8-2000    Failed                                                   
9- 2000   Failed                                                   
1-2001    2-16-01A Amending Annual Budget for FY 00-01.            NI
2-2001            Amending Planning and Zoning regarding          151.10
                   membership.
3-2001    6-11-01  Amending Compensation Plan.                     37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
4-2001    6-11-01  Amending Employment Policies and Procedures.    37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
5-2001    6-11-01  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 01-02.            NI
6-2001    7-9-01   Amending Employment Policies and Procedures.    37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
7-2001    8-20-01  Establishing procedures and standards for a     T.S.O. VI
                   cable television franchise.
8-2001    - -      Not passed                                      NI
9-2001    9-10-01  Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2002.
10-2001   - -      Not passed                                      NI
                                                                   38.02,
11-2001   11-12-01 Setting property tax rate for 2001.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
1-2002    4-9-02   Adopting the 2001 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Front
                   Ordinances.
2-2002    4-26-02  Amending compensation for Mayor.                T.S.O. IX
3-2002    6-17-02  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 02-03.            NI
4-2002    7-8-02   Updating compensation plan.                     T.S.O. IX
5-2002    9-19-02  Amending parking penalties                      72.99
6-2002    9-9-02   Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2003.
7-2002    10-14-02 Accepting a dedicated street.                   NI
                                                                   38.02,
9-2002    10-14-02 Setting property tax rate for 2002.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
10-2002   10-14-02 Creating a cable franchise.                     T.S.O. VI
1-2003    2-3-03   Amending regulations on the cost of connection. 50.046
2-2003    7-14-03  Creating a cable franchise.                     T.S.O. VI
3-2003    4-14-03  Establishing the Recreational, Tourist and      35.70 -
                   Convention Commission.                          35.84
4-2003    4-14-03  Acceptance of private streets and curbs.        91.10,
                                                                   91.11
5-2003    5-12-03  Amending water and sewer tap regulations.       50.042
6-2003    3-10-03  Amending accessory buildings                    152.044
7-2003    5-12-03  Waiving water rates for new businesses.         50.130
8-2003    5-12-03  Updating compensation plan.                     T.S.O. IX
9-2003    5-12-03  Amending parking penalities.                    72.99
10-2003   7-14-03  Updating compensation plan.                     T.S.O. IX
11-2003   6-11-03  Adopting a hazardous material policy by         95.01
                   reference.
12-2003   6-11-03  Authorizing use of streets for sewer rehab      NI
                   project.
13-2003   6-11-03  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 03-04.            NI
14-2003   9-8-03   Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2004.
15-2003   10-13-03 Issuing water and sewer bonds.                  T.S.O. II
16-2003   11-10-03 Amending water rates.                           50.130
                                                                   38.02,
17-2003   12-1-04  Setting property tax rate for 2003.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
1-2004    4-19-04  Amending abatement procedure                    92.04
2-2004    6-14-04  Amending regulations on damaging, destroying    50.003
                   utility equipment.
3-2004    6-14-04  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 04-05.            NI
4-2004    9-13-04  Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2005.
                                                                   38.02,
5-2004    11-08-04 Setting property tax rate for 2004.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
1-2005    3-14-05  Creating a Vacant Property Review Commission.   153.01,
                                                                   153.02
2-2005    5-9-05   Amending Annual Budget for FY 04-05.            NI
                                                                   150.01,
3-2005    5-9-05   Amending Building Code regulations              150.02,
                                                                   150.05,
                                                                   150.06
4-2005    5-9-05   Adoption of Residential Code                    150.07
5-2005    5-9-05   Amending landscaping regulations                152.090,
                                                                   152.091
6-2005    6-13-05  Amending building permit regulations.           152.030
7-2005    6-13-05  Approving and interlocal agreement              T.S.O. IV
8-2005    6-22-05  Creating a cable franchise.                     T.S.O. VI
9-2005    10-1-05  Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2006.
10-2005   6-29-05  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 05-06.            NI
11-2005   10-12-05 Establishing guidelines for speed bumps.        91.12
                                                                   38.02,
12-2005   12-5-05  Setting property tax rate for 2005.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
1-2006    4-10-06  Authorizing the city to advertise and receive   T.S.O. VI
                   bids for a franchise.
2-2006    6-12-06  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 06-07.            NI
3-2006    8-14-06  Accepting the bid of Delta Natural Gas Company, T.S.O. VI
                   Inc. for a franchise.
4-2006    10-2-06  Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2007.
5-2006    10-18-06 Amending restricted discharges.                 51.061,
                                                                   51.112
                                                                   38.02,
6-2006    11-21-06 Setting property tax rate for 2006.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
1-2007    3-12-07  Amending the Annual Budget for FY 06-07.        NI
4-2007    6-11-07  Amending bicycle regulations to include         73.03,
                   skateboards.                                    73.99 
5-2007    5-29-07  Adopting the 2007 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Front
                   Ordinances.
6-2007    6-27-07  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 07-08.            NI
7-2007    8-13-07  Amending § 36.17 regarding Fire Department     36.17
                   officers.
8-2007    9-26-07  Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2008.
9-2007    10-3-07  Authorizing an agreement.                       T.S.O. IV
                                                                   38.02,
10-2007   11-19-07 Setting property tax rate for 2007.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
                                                                   50.133,
11-2007   1-14-08  Amending water fees.                            50.134,
                                                                   50.136
12-2007   1-14-08  Amending restaurant and transient room tax      35.82
                   amnesty period.
1-2008    2-15-08  Amending water rates.                           50.130
2-2008    3-10-08  Amending the personnel policy.                  T.S.O. IX
3-2008    Failed   Allowing a motor vehicle to conduct a motor      
                   vehicle temporary off-sit sale.
4-2008    5-12-08  Posted 911 addresses.                           91.40
5-2008    6-9-08   Alarm regulations.                              97.01,
                                                                   97.99
6-2008    6-23-08  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 08-09.            NI
7-2008    7-28-08  Adopting the 2008 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Front
                   Ordinances.
8-2008    7-28-08  Issuing water and sewer bonds.                  T.S.O. II
9-2008    10-20-08 Approving an interlocal agreement.              T.S.O. IV
                                                                   38.02,
10-2008   11-11-08 Setting property tax rate for 2008.             38.03
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
11-2008   11-11-08 Adopting the Identity Theft Protection Program. 96.01
1-2009    1-26-09  Approving a lease for the financing of a        NI
                   project.
2-2009    6-8-09   Amending pollutant discharge limits.            51.061
3-2009    3-23-09  Approving a lease for the financing of a        NI
                   project.
4-2009    5-11-09  Updating the compensation plan.                 37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
5-2009    5-11-09  Amending sewer tap fees.                        50.135
6-2009    6-29-09  Adopting a drug-free workplace policy           37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
7-2009    6-29-09  Adopting Annual Budget for FY 09-10.            NI
8-2009    - -      Amending the bylaws for the Volunteer Fire      NI
                   Department.
                                                                   38.02,
9-2009    11-9-09  Setting property tax rate for 2009.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
10-2009   12-14-09 Amending a drug-free workplace policy.          37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
1-2010    4-12-10  Updating the compensation plan.                 37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
3-2010    5-10-10  Adopting the 2010 S-6 Supplement to the Code of Front
                   Ordinances.
4-2010    6-28-10  Adopting annual budget for FY 10-11.            NI
5-2010    6-28-10  Amending gross retail tax.                      35.79
6-2010    10-11-10 Annexing certain property.                      T.S.O. I
7-2010    10-11-10 Approving an interlocal agreement.              T.S.O. IV
8-2010    10-11-10 Amending deadlines for city offices.            31.20
9-2010    10-11-10 Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2011.
                                                                   38.02,
10-2010   10-11-10 Setting property tax rate for 2010.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
1-2011    3-14-11  Amending interest of unpaid tax.                35.82
2-2011    3-14-11  Updating the pay/classification plan.           37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
3-2011    3-14-11  Amending city water utility rates.              50.130
4-2011    6-13-11  Adopting annual budget for FY 11-12.            NI
5-2011    6-16-11  Issuing water and sewer bonds.                  T.S.O II
6-2011    9-12-11  Amending the bylaws for the Volunteer Fire      NI
                   Department.
                                                                   51.002,
                                                                   51.019,
                                                                   51.061,
                                                                   51.081 -
                                                                   51.083,
7-2011    9-12-11  Amending sewer discharge limits.                51.087,
                                                                   51.088,
                                                                   51.093,
                                                                   51.094,
                                                                   51.096,
                                                                   51.136
                                                                   38.02,
8-2011    10-10-11 Setting property tax rate for 2011.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
9-2011    10-10-11 Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2012.
1-2012    2-27-12  Amending city water utility rates.              50.130
2-2012    4-9-12   Banning pain clinics.                           117.01
3-2012    4-9-12   Prohibiting synthetic drugs.                    98.01,
                                                                   98.99
4-2012    4-16-12  Amending zoning code.                           T.S.O. VII
5-2012    5-21-12  Adopting annual budget for FY 12-13.            NI
6-2012    8-13-12  Amending zoning code.                           T.S.O. VII
7-2012    9-10-12  Adopting the 2012 S-7 Supplement to the Code of Front
                   Ordinances.
                                                                   38.02,
8-2012    10-8-12  Setting property tax rate for 2012.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
9-2012    10-8-12  Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2013.
                                                                   50.133,
10-2012   12-12-12 Responsibility for delinquent water and/or      50.137,
                   sewer bills.                                    50.139,
                                                                   50.141
1-2013    6-24-13  Adopting annual budget for FY 13-14             NI
2-2013    6-24-13  Amending water utility rates.                   50.130
4-2013    9-9-13   Amending zoning code.                           T.S.O. VII
                                                                   38.02,
5-2013    10-14-13 Setting property tax rate for 2013.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
6-2013    10-14-13 Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax rate for 2014.
1-2014    4-14-14  Updating the pay/classification plan.           37.01,
                                                                   T.S.O. IX
2-2014    4-18-14  Amending compensation for Mayor.                T.S.O. IX
3-2014    4-18-14  Amending compensation for City Council Members. T.S.O. IX
4-2014    6-24-14  Adopting annual budget for FY 14-15.            NI
                                                                   38.02,
5-2014    10-17-14 Setting property tax rate for 2014.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
6-2014    10-17-14 Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. III
                   tax rate for 2013.
1-2015    1-19-15  Adopting water utility rates.                   50.130
2-2015    3-9-15   Adopting the 2015 S-8 Supplement to the Code of Front
                   Ordinances.
3-2015    3-9-15   Adding section for political signage.           92.07
4-2015    5-11-15  Amending certain conditions declared a          92.03
                   nuisance.
5-2015    - -      Establishing a five-year non- executive         T.S.O. VI
                   franchise for cable services.
6-2015    6-24-15  Constructing a telephone and communicati ons    T.S.O. VI
                   franchise.
7-2015    6-24-15  Adopting annual budget for FY 15-16.            NI
8-2015    8-10-15  Creating a telephone and communicati ons        T.S.O. VI
                   franchise.
9-2015    10-12-15 Setting the motor vehicle and watercraft        T.S.O. VIII
                   property tax rate for 2016.
                                                                   38.02,
10-2015   10-16-15 Setting the property tax rate for 2015.         38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
                   Accepting the bid of Windstream Kentucky East,
11-2015   10-16-15 L.L.C. for a telephone and communicati ons      T.S.O. VI
                   franchise.
12-2015   1-11-16  Accepting Greentree Drive and Maze Avenue as    NI
                   dedicated streets.
1-2016    3-18-16  Creating a franchise for the erection of        T.S.O. VI
                   electric facilities and appurtenant facilities.
                   Creating a franchise for the operation and
2-2016    3-18-16  maintenance of a natural, manufactured , and/or T.S.O. VI
                   mixed, gas distribution system.
3-2016    3-18-16  Amending electrical inspection fees.            NI
4-2016    3-18-16  Amending water utility rates.                   50.130
5-2016    3-18-16  Amending abatement procedure.                   92.04
6-2016    6-17-16  Adopting annual budget for FY 16-17.            NI
                                                                   38.02,
7-2016    10-25-16 Setting the property tax for 2016               38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
8-2016    10-25-16 Setting the motor vehicle and watercraft        T.S.O. VIII
                   property tax rate for 2017.
1-2017    2-13-17  Approving an interlocal agreement.              T.S.O. IV
2-2017    3-13-17  Amending water rates.                           50.130
3-2017    3-13-17  Approving an interlocal agreement.              T.S.O. IV
4-2017  6-12-17  Amending pollutant discharge limits.            51.061
5-2017    6-23-17  Adopting annual budget FY 2017-2018.            NI
6-2017  10-9-17  Annexation.                                     T.S.O. I
                                                                   38.02,
7-2017  10-20-17 Setting property tax rate for 2017.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
8-2017    10-20-17 Setting the motor vehicle and watercraft        T.S.O. VIII
                   property tax rate for 2018.
1-2018    6-18-18  Adopting annual budget FY 2018-2019.            NI
2-2018    6-27-18  Amending annual budget FY 2018-2018.            NI
                                                                   38.02,
3-2018  11-12-18 Setting property tax rate for 2018.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
4-2018    11-12-18 Setting the motor vehicle and watercraft        T.S.O. VIII
                   property tax rate for 2019
                                                                   38.02,
5-2018    1-14-19  Setting property tax rate for 2018.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
1-2019    2-11-19  Amending water rates.                           50.130
3-2019    6-10-19  Amending 2018- 2019 budget.                     NI
4-2019    6-10-19  Amending security deposit for water service.    50.140
5-2019    6-10-19  Adopting annual budget FY 2019- 2020.           NI
6-2019    9-9-19   Amending interlocal agreement.                  T.S.O. IV
7-2019    10-14-19 Zoning map change.                              T.S.O. VII
                                                                   38.02,
8-2019    10-25-19 Setting property tax rate for 2019.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
9-2019    10-25-19 Setting the motor vehicle and watercraft        T.S.O. VIII
                   property tax rate for 2020.
                                                                   38.02,
10-2019   1-13-20  Setting property tax rate for 2019.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
11-2019   12-9-19  Amending interlocal agreement.                  T.S.O. IV
1-2020    6-15-20  Adopting annual budget FY 2020- 2021.           NI
2-2020    9-14-20  Zoning map change.                              T.S.O. VII
3-2020    10-12-20 Cable franchise.                                T.S.O. VI
                                                                   38.02,
4-2020    10-12-20 Setting property tax rate for 2020.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
5-2020    10-12-20 Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax for 2021.
                                                                   118.001-
                                                                   118.008,
                                                                   118.020-
                                                                   118.025,
                                                                   118.040-
                                                                   118.049,
6-2020    12-14-20 Adopting alcoholic beverage control.            118.060-
                                                                   118.072,
                                                                   118.085-
                                                                   118.089,
                                                                   118.100-
                                                                   118.102,
                                                                   118.999
7-2020    12-14-20 Adopting the 2020 S-11 supplement.              Front
                                                                   50.130,
1-2021    5-27-21  Amending water and sewer fees.                  50.134,
                                                                   50.135
2-2021    6-10-21  Adopting annual budget FY 2021- 2022.           NI
3-2021    10-11-21 Amending code of ethics.                        40.18
                                                                   38.02,
4-2021    11-14-21 Setting property tax rate for 2021.             38.03,
                                                                   T.S.O. VIII
5-2021    10-11-21 Setting motor vehicle and watercraft property   T.S.O. VIII
                   tax for 2022.
6-2021    12-13-21 Zoning map change.                              T.S.O. VII
7-2021    12-13-21 Zoning map change.                              T.S.O. VII
1-2022    2-14-22  Amending pollutant discharge limits             51.061
2-2022    3-14-22  Zoning map change.                              T.S.O. VII
3-2022    3-14-22  Amending compensation for Mayor.                T.S.O. IX
4-2022    3-14-22  Amending compensation for Council.              T.S.O. IX
5-2022    4-11-22  Amending water rates.                           50.130
6-2022    4-11-22  Amending alcoholic beverage administrator       118.040
                   provisions.
                                                                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
         3-1-67      T.S.O. IV
 
